10.2307/1368314|Distribution and habitat use of Mexican Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) in Arizona were studied from 1984-1988. Owls were widely but patchily distributed throughout the state except for the arid southwestern portion. Distribution of the owl corresponded with distribution of forested mountains and canyonlands within the state. Owls occurred either in rocky canyons or in any of several forest types, and were most common where unlogged closed canopy (>80%) forests occurred in steep canyons. Several forest types provided these habitat characteristics in southern Arizona, and owls occurred in all of them. Only unlogged mixed-conifer forest provided these characteristics in northern Arizona, and most owls (67%) were found in this forest type in northern Arizona. Many owls in northern Arizona (54%) were located in areas where timber harvest was either occurring now or was planned in the next 5 years. Owls could not be located at 27% of the historic sites resurveyed, indicating that population levels may have declined in Arizona.
10.2307/1369112|We assessed geographic variability in morphology among Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) collected from breeding populations in Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota in the United States and Alberta, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan in Canada during spring. Both male and female Yellow-headed Blackbirds tended to be larger in the more northern breeding populations. Males collected in Manitoba and southeast Saskatchewan tended to be more like populations from the United States, whereas other populations in Saskatchewan and Alberta populations were morphologically similar to each other. For females, however, only the Manitoba population was similar to the U. S. populations, and the females from the southeastern Saskatchewan were similar to other Saskatchewan birds. Southeastern Saskatchewan appears to represent a transitional region between northwestern and southeastern breeding populations of Yellow-headed Blackbirds.
10.2307/1370411|The Mississippi Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis pulla) reintroduction program is the largest crane reintroduction effort in the world. Here we report on a 4-year experiment in which we compared post-release survival rates of 56 hand-reared and 76 parent-reared Mississippi Sandhill Cranes. First-year survival was 80%. Surprisingly, hand-reared cranes survived better than parent-reared birds, and the highest survival rates were for hand-reared juveniles released in mixed cohorts with parent-reared birds. Mixing improved survival most for parent-reared birds released with hand-reared birds. These results demonstrate that hand-rearing can produce birds which survive at least as well as parent-reared birds and that improved survival results from mixing hand-reared and parent-reared birds.
90008461|Worldwide, shorebirds are a major component of rice field avian biodiversity. Rice fields in Argentina and southern Brazil hold large numbers of shorebirds and have been recognized as important areas for migrating or wintering species. To develop successful shorebird conservation strategies, we need to understand geographic variation in shorebird abundance in rice fields as well as how bird use of rice fields varies over the rice growing cycle. We surveyed shorebirds in November and December in the main rice cultivation regions of interior Argentina and coastal Brazil to estimate shorebird densities using distance sampling and to evaluate densities of individual species at different stages of the rice cycle. We detected &#x003E;7,000 shorebirds in rice fields, including a variety of Nearctic migrants. Density of resident species was generally low and showed no differences between countries. Densities of migratory taxa were higher and varied between Brazil and Argentina. Pectoral Sandpiper (
4096519| Resource-selection studies of passerine birds during the breeding season have mainly been limited to understanding those factors important to nesting. However, little is known about what resources are selected by juveniles that are no longer dependent on their parents. The postfledging period may be a critical part of the breeding season for independent juveniles because they must avoid predators and learn to forage on a changing resource base. We used radio-telemetry to study postfledging habitat use and resource selection of juvenile Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) in coastal California from 2000 to 2002. We generated population-level contours (50% and 95% fixed-kernel) to describe habitat use by independent juveniles, and we determined juvenile resource selection by comparing vegetation characteristics at sites used by juveniles versus random sites. Juvenile Swainson's Thrushes used mixed-hardwood forest and coastal scrub during the postfledging period as well as riparian vegetation used by nesting adults. The most parsimonious predictors of resource selection were fruit abundance variables, suggesting that postfledging habitat selection by the Swainson's Thrush is best explained by the optimal-foraging hypothesis. We suggest that juvenile thrushes can track food resources in a habitat mosaic and use vegetation types distinct from what is traditionally considered Swainson's Thrush breeding habitat. /// Los estudios de seleccin de recursos en aves paserinas durante la estacin reproductiva, se han centrado principalmente en entender los factores importantes para la anidacin. Sin embargo, se sabe poco acerca de los recursos seleccionados por los juveniles que ya no dependen de sus padres. Para los juveniles independientes, el periodo de emancipacin podra ser una parte crtica de la estacin reproductiva en la que deben evitar depredadores y aprender a forrajear sobre una base de recursos fluctuante. Por medio de telemetra, estudiamos el uso de hbitat y seleccin de recursos en juveniles del zorzal Catharus ustulatus en la costa de California entre los aos 2000 y 2002. A nivel de poblacin, generamos polgonos (de 50% y 95% de "kernel" fijo) para describir la utilizacin de hbitat por juveniles independientes, y para determinar la seleccin de recursos comparamos las caractersticas de la vegetatin de los sitios utilizados con la de sitios aleatorios pareados. Los juveniles utilizaron bosques mixtos y matorral costero durante el periodo de emancipacin, as como la vegetacin riparia utilizada por adultos nidificantes. Las variables con las predicciones ms parsimoniosas del uso de recursos fueron las relacionadas con la abundancia de frutos, lo que sugiere que la seleccin de hbitat de emancipacin por C. ustulatus es explicada en mejores trminos por la hiptesis de forrajeo ptimo. Sugerimos que los zorzales juveniles pueden encontrar recursos alimenticios en mosaicos de hbitat y usar tipos de vegetacin distintos a los que tradicionalmente se consideran como hbitat de anidacin. 
40072358|Whereas demographic performance increases with experience, little is known about the experience-related response of demographic performance to environmental variations. In long-lived birds, theoretical studies consider experience-related differences in performance to be greater under more restrictive conditions, but this has rarely been tested. We tested this hypothesis on the White Stork (
10.2307/1369281|A group of small, insectivorous, straight-billed Hawaiian honeycreepers once regarded as forms of a single species Loxops maculata are actually five species that comprise two genera that are not closely related to any others in the subfamily or to each other. The two genera differ in color patterns, plumages, presence of nasal setae, wing/tail proportions, foraging behavior, diet, vocalizations, nest construction, odor, predator-response behavior, tongue morphology, and cranial features. In all respects wherein the Drepanidinae differ from other passerines, Oreomystis has the characteristics of the subfamily but Paroreomyza does not. Its placement among the Hawaiian honeycreepers is uncertain. Oreomystis includes two species, the Hawaii Creeper O. mana of Hawaii and the Akikiki O. bairdi of Kauai. Paroreomyza has three species: the Oahu Alauahio P. maculata, the Kakawahie P. flammea of Molokai, and the Maui Alauahio P. montana with subspecies on Lanai (P. m. montana) and Maui (P. m. newtoni). The English epithet "creeper" should no longer be used for members of Paroreomyza.
10.2307/1370329|We report the first known nest of the Pale-eyed Blackbird (Agelaius xanthophthalmus) and describe the behavior of breeding and nonbreeding pairs at Cocha Cashu, Manu National Park, Peru. Birds traveled as pairs within limited areas, whether or not they were breeding. During incubation, which is performed only by the female, the male typically remains near the nest and the birds are in regular vocal contact by means of frequent duets. Its monogamous social system is similar to that of other marsh-nesting species in its clade.
10.2307/1368347|Responses of the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia), Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina), and Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) to Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism were determined from nest records compiled at the Ontario Nest Record Scheme. Nest desertion was the principal mode of rejection of cowbird eggs. The Yellow Warbler also rejected parasite eggs by burying clutches under a second nest bottom. The probability of rejection did not vary during the breeding season or between multiply- and singly-parasitized pairs. Possible stimuli used by hosts to recognize parasitism are discussed.
10.2307/1368302| Using radiotelemetry we monitored dispersing juvenile Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) in central Kentucky during 1985 and 1986. Juvenile owls (n = 16) from seven families remained on natal territories for an average (SE) of 55  1.3 days after fledging. The mean dispersal date was 15 July, ranging from 8 to 21 July. The mean number of days between dispersal of the first and last members of a brood was 4.3, ranging from 0 to 9 days. Juveniles (n = 17) dispersed a median distance of 2.3 km from their nest (x = 4.4  1.11 km), ranging from 0.4 to 16.9 km, including one juvenile that continued to use portions of its natal home range. Dispersal distance was not significantly correlated with either dispersal date or the number of days that juveniles remained on natal territories. Mean dispersal direction was 210  99.1, and the distribution of dispersal angles did not differ significantly from random. After departing from natal areas, individuals (n = 7) settled after an average of 5.6 days, ranging from 2 to 11 days. Mortality of juvenile owls was 18.2% during the period prior to dispersal but increased to 67% after dispersal. 
40072323|We examined the relationship between attributes of nest sites used by Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) in the Copper River Delta, Alaska, and patterns in nest and female survival. We aimed to determine whether nest site attributes related to nest and female survival differed and whether nest site attributes related to nest survival changed within and among years. Nest site attributes that we examined included vegetation at and surrounding the nest, as well as associations with other nesting birds. Optimal nest site characteristics were different depending on whether nest survival or female survival was examined. Prior to 25 May, the odds of daily survival for nests in tall shrubs and on islands were 2.92 and 2.26 times greater, respectively, than for nests in short shrub sites. Bald Eagles (Halieaeetus leucocephalus) are the major predator during the early breeding season and their behavior was likely important in determining this pattern. After 25 May, when eagle predation is limited due to the availability of alternative prey, no differences in nest survival among the nest site types were found. In addition, nest survival was positively related to the density of other Canada Goose nests near the nest site. Although the number of detected mortalities for females was relatively low, a clear pattern was found, with mortality three times more likely at nest sites dominated by high shrub density within 50 m than at open sites dominated by low shrub density. The negative relationship of nest concealment and adult survival is consistent with that found in other studies of groundnesting birds. Physical barriers that limited access to nest sites by predators and sites that allowed for early detection of predators were important characteristics of nest site quality for Canada Geese and nest site quality shifted within seasons, likely as a result of shifting predator-prey interactions. /// Examinamos la relatin entre los atributos de los sitios de nidificacin y los patrones de supervivencia de los nidos y de las hembras de Branta canadensis en el Delta del Ro Copper, Alaska. Nuestro objetivo fue determinar si los atributos de los sitios de nidificacion relacionados a la supervivencia de los nidos y de las hembras eran diferentes, y si los atributos relacionados con la supervivencia de los nidos cambiaban en un mismo ao o entre los aos. Los atributos de los sitios de nidificacin que examinamos incluyern tanto las caractersticas de la vegetatin en y alrededor del sitio del nido, como las asociaciones con otras aves nidificantes. Las caractersticas ptimas del sitio del nido difirieron, dependiendo de si era examinada la supervivencia de los nidos o de las hembras. Antes del 25 de mayo, la probabilidad de supervivencia diaria de los nidos ubicados en sitios con pastos largos y en islas fue 2.92 veces y 2.26 veces mayor, respectivamente, que la de los nidos en sitios con arbustos bajos. Las guilas Halieaeetus leucocephalus son los depredadores ms importantes durante la etapa temprana de la poca reproductiva y el comportamiento de estas guilas fue probablemente importante en determinar el patrn observado. Despus del 25 de mayo, cuando la depredatin por parte de las guilas disminuy debido a la disponibilidad de otras presas, no se encontraron diferencias en la supervivencia de los nidos ubicados en los diferentes tipos de sitios. Adems, la supervivencia de los nidos se relacion positivamente con la densidad de otros individuos de B. canadensis presentes en las cercanas del nido. A pesar de que el nmero de mortalidades detectadas para las hembras fue relativamente bajo, se encontr un patrn bastante claro: la mortalidad de las hembras fue tres veces ms probable en sitios dominados por una alta densidad de arbustos dentro de un radio de 50 m del nido, que en sitios dominados por una baja densidad de arbustos. La relacin negativa entre la cobertura del nido y la supervivencia de los adultos es consistente con aquella encontrada en otros estudios de aves que nidifican en el suelo. Las barreras fisicas que limitan el acceso de depredadores a los nidos y los sitios que permiten la rpida detectin de depredadores representaron caractersticas importantes para la calidad de los sitios de nidificacin para B. canadensis. Adems la calidad de los sitios de nidificacin vari dentro de una misma epoca reproductiva, probablemente como resultado de las interacciones cambiantes ente los depredadores y sus presas.
10.2307/1369397|There is conflicting evidence as to whether Common Nighthawks (Chordeiles minor) can enter torpor. The purpose of this study was to determine if torpor is used by free-ranging individuals under natural conditions. Nighthawks were monitored from June until August 1990 near Okanagan Falls, British Columbia, using temperature sensitive radiotransmitters. Record-high precipitation in 1990 apparently stressed the birds energetically by preventing foraging during poor weather and by reducing the abundance of the main prey item, caddisflies (Trichoptera). Energetic stress was manifested in several ways. Compared to previous years, nighthawks foraged diurnally, changed foraging habitats resulting in a broadening of the diet, and increased the duration of foraging periods. Furthermore, two tagged birds died, apparently of starvation. Despite indications that 1990 was a stressful year, the temperature of nighthawks never fell below homeothermic levels. If nighthawks are physiologically capable of entering torpor, an energetically stressful year would be expected to induce it. Our observations support the idea that they are not physiologically adapted to enter torpor as a means of energy conservation.
10.1525/cond.2013.120019|Northern Saw-whet Owls (
10.2307/1368617| A continuous feeding trial was used to determine Gross Energy Intake (GEI), Metabolizable Energy (ME) and energy Assimilation Efficiency (AE) during growth of captive (hand-reared) nestling Cape Vultures. The mean ash-free dry energy density of daily samples of excreta for the nestlings was 14.8  0.4 kJ/g (range 14.2-15.9 kJ/g). Nestling GEI increased from shortly after hatching to reach a maximum of 6,443.3  388.9 kJ/day between 80-85 days. After 85 days, GEI decreased to adult levels (range 2,734-3,639 kJ/day) between 105 days and fledging (136 days of age). AE of hand-reared nestlings ranged between 82% and 92%. Mean GEI during the period of maximum growth between 60 and 100 days was 5,459.6  529.8 kJ/day. If deprived of food, a 62-day old nestling with a one kilogram fat reserve (about 15% of body mass) would theoretically deplete this energy reserve in about eight days, if growth continued at a normal rate. 
10.2307/1368444|The depths attained on 1,444 dives by 14 Gentoo Penguins (Pygoscelis papua) and 6,352 dives by eight Macaroni Penguins (Eudyptes chrysolophus) were recorded, together with the timing and duration of the foraging trip and the amount and type of prey caught. Macaroni Penguins ate only Antarctic krill Euphausia superba. When feeding only at night they made no dives deeper than 20 m; on all-day trips 36% of dives were between 20 to 80 m. Gentoo Penguins fed during the day. When they caught krill, 77% of dives were shallower than 54 m; when fish were taken, 59% of dives were 54 to 136 m, which is consistent with the benthic-demersal habit of the juvenile Notothenia and Champsocephalus fish they eat. The pattern of predation on krill by both penguin species is consistent with its vertical migration to the surface at night and dispersal through the water column during the day. The food requirements of chick-rearing Macaroni Penguins would be met by catching at least six adult krill per dive (or 150 juvenile krill or amphipods). For similar Gentoo Penguins, a minimum of 15 adult krill per dive (one every 8 sec), or one fish every third dive, is needed. Recorded interannual variations in krill size can treble these rates, which would also be doubled if half the dives were for travelling, not feeding.
4123203| Forest fragmentation is thought to be partially responsible for declines in many Neotropical migrant birds due to the combined effects of higher rates of brood parasitism and increased predation near forest edges. A majority of the forested habitat in the northern prairie region is found in riparian corridors, but this native habitat has been much reduced from its historical extent. However, additional woodland nesting habitat has been established within the last century in the form of isolated woodlots on farms. We compared abundance, species richness, and nesting success of migrant forest birds breeding in native riparian corridors and anthropogenic woodlots. The two habitats had similar bird abundances but native riparian woodlands were more species-rich than woodlots. We located a total of 650 nests, with 320 nests of 15 species in woodlots and 331 nests of 25 species in riparian corridors. Nesting success was not significantly different between the two habitats for all species combined or for individual species with  15 nests in each habitat. Nests above 5 m were more successful than lower nests, but distance to woodland edge did not influence nesting success. Nests initiated in the middle and late portions of the nesting season were more successful than early season nests, significantly so in woodlots. Thus, anthropogenic woodlots were as suitable as natural habitats for successful nesting. However, many of the Neotropical migrants occurring in riparian habitats were absent from woodlots, which suggests that riparian corridors are especially important habitats for breeding birds in the northern prairie region. /// Se cree que la fragmentacin de los bosques es parcialmente responsable por la disminucin de varias especies de aves migratorias neotropicales debido a los efectos de borde que incrementan la tasa de parasitismo de nidos y la depredacin. La mayora de los hbitats boscosos en la regin de la pradera nortea se encuentran en corredores ribereos, pero este tipo de hbitat nativo ha sido reducido en gran medida en comparacin con su extensin original. Sin embargo, durante el siglo pasado se establecieron zonas boscosas adecuadas para la nidificacin en forma de parches de bosque aislados dentro de granjas. Comparamos la abundancia, la riqueza de especies y el xito de nidificacin de aves migratorias de bosque que se reprodujeron en corredores ribereos nativos y en parches de bosque antropognicos. Los dos hbitats presentaron abundancias de aves similares, pero las zonas boscosas nativas tuvieron ms especies que los parches de bosque antropognicos. Localizamos un total de 650 nidos, de los cuales 320 correspondientes a 15 especies estuvieron dentro de los parches de bosque y 331 correspondientes a 25 especies en los corredores ribereos. El xito reproductivo no fue significativamente diferente entre los dos tipos de hbitat cuando el anlisis incluy a todas las especies ni cuando las especies que tuvieron un nmero de nidos mayor a 15 se analizaron individualmente. Los nidos localizados a ms de 5 m de altura fueron mas exitosos que aquellos localizados a menores alturas, pero la distancia a la orilla del bosque no influenci el xito de anidacin. Los nidos iniciados a la mitad y al final de la temporada de nidificacin fueron ms exitosos que los iniciados al principio de la temporada, especialmente en los parches de bosque. Por lo tanto, los parches de bosque antropognicos fueron tan adecuados como los hbitats naturales para producir nidadas exitosas. Sin embargo, muchas de las aves migratorias neotropicales localizadas en los hbitats ribereos no fueron registradas en los parches de bosque, lo cual sugiere que los corredores ribereos son hbitats especialmente importantes para la reproduccin de las aves en la pradera nortea. 
10.2307/1369320|We estimate diets of 68 bird species inhabiting dry seasonal habitats and mangroves of northeastern Venezuela, based on 3,419 birds forced to regurgitate using tartar emetic. Most birds were generalist feeders, including a wide variety of both invertebrate and plant taxa in their diet. Coleopterans, ants, and insect larvae were the most frequent invertebrate preys. Hummingbirds had low nectar intakes and differed from other species by feeding extensively on small soft-bodied arthropods. Most species fed on fruits to a variable extent. Actually, several species tended to be more frugivorous at our study sites than in previous reports.
10.2307/1370243|I examined the nest habitat used by Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli clementeae) on San Clemente Island, one of the California Channel Islands, during March through June 1986. All nests were found in boxthorn shrubs in coastal scrub habitat. The cover of vegetation was greater and more evenly distributed at nest sites than in surrounding habitat. Nests were placed most often on the leeward side of live boxthorn shrubs interspersed by cactus.
10.2307/1367986|Both sexes of the Melodious Blackbird (Dives dives) defend territories by vigorous duetting, bill-up displays, and supplanting attacks. These birds forage primarily on the ground in open areas and also forage throughout canopies of tall trees, especially pines. Most food is obtained by gaping; much fruit is taken when available. Displays of this species resemble those of other icterids. Vocalizations are loud and clear and include many whistles. Most of the sounds are made by individuals of both sexes, but some are restricted to one sex. The Scrub Blackbird (D. warszewiczi) resembles the Melodious Blackbird in many respects, but several pairs occupy common foraging grounds and are tolerated near one another's nests.
10.2307/1367128|Courtship in wintering American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) was studied at three sites that differed substantially in food supply. Courtship started earlier and occupied more of the ducks' time at the site where food was most nutritious. Ducks at the site with intermediate food quality only began courting after temperatures rose sufficiently to reduce their energetic costs of maintenance. Ducks with the least nutritious food began courting latest and spent the least amount of time in this activity. The seasonal sequence of courtship displays used by the courting ducks was similar between sites. This suggests that ducks with the best food (i.e., those starting courtship first) reached the peak of courtship activity earliest and thus should have been best prepared for breeding in the spring. Consequently, the northern limit to winter ranges in species with early pairing may be determined, in part, by the availability of sufficient food for early courtship.
10.2307/1368649| We studied adult White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) on a South Carolina salt marsh to determine the effects of social grouping on the birds' foraging behavior. White Ibises on our study site fed almost exclusively on fiddler crabs (Uca spp.). Four social categories were recognized: (1) central adults in flocks of  15 birds, (2) peripheral adults in flocks of  15 birds, (3) adults in small flocks of five or fewer birds, and (4) solitary adults (singletons). We used a paired sampling scheme to compare the behavior of central birds with the behavior of birds in the other three social groupings. Although peripheral adults did not differ significantly from central adults in number of steps, number of crabs captured, or number of capture attempts, they looked up more often and for longer periods of time than did central adults. Behavior of solitary ibises was similar to that of ibises in small flocks, but both foraged differently than central adults in large flocks. Birds in the center of large flocks took fewer steps, probed more frequently, and scanned the surroundings less often than birds in the other two social groupings; there were no differences in capture rates. Thus, White Ibises used two distinct types of foraging strategies depending on flock size and their position within the flock. Ibises in small flocks, singletons, and, to some extent, ibises on the edges of large flocks, stepped quickly to capture fiddler crabs before the crabs could retreat into burrows. Centrally-located ibises in large flocks were unable to use this foraging technique because the surrounding members of the flock created a disturbance that caused the fiddler crabs to remain in their burrows. These birds, therefore, probed into crab burrows and found their prey by tactile means. Our results support the predator-protection advantage of feeding within a flock independent of the feeding-efficiency hypotheses. 
10.2307/1368807|Studies of birds that use stable isotopes as dietary tracers require estimates of how quickly stable isotopes in tissues are replaced by isotopes derived from the diet. However, isotopic turnover rates in animals in general, and birds in particular, are poorly understood. We established the turnover rates of
10.2307/1370423|One group of brown capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) was observed for 19 months in French Guiana. White Hawks (Leucopternis albicollis) were seen in association with these monkeys throughout the year. Our study revealed that: (1) hawks mainly followed capuchins in open forest types, and in this vegetation they mainly flew at the height of 10-20 m from the ground where horizontal visibility is better than in other strata of the forest, (2) hawks usually landed preceding the monkey troop spreading into an area, and they followed the capuchin troop when the monkeys were traveling, and (3) no predation of any capuchins by hawks occurred at any time during our study, and seven times it was observed that hawks captured arboreal snakes disturbed by the movement of capuchins. We propose that White Hawks followed brown capuchins in this Amazonian forest primarily for capturing arboreal snakes disturbed by monkey troop movements.
4123205|We examined the allometric relationship between resting metabolic rate (RMR;
90008442|Many empirical studies have shown that forest-breeding songbirds, and Neotropical migrants in particular, suffer greater rates of nest predation and nest parasitism in smaller forest patches and in fragmented landscapes. To compare the performance of different metrics of spatial habitat configuration resulting from deforestation, we studied nest predation and nest parasitism rates at 200 Wood Thrush (
1370531| I examined onset of incubation in Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) and evaluated the hypotheses that early onset improves hatchability, reduces brood parasitism, and shortens incubation periods. Most (21 of 22) females began incubating at night, a median of 4 days before egg laying ended. Nocturnal incubation bouts began 18 min before sunset, ended 15 min before sunrise, lasted 732 min each night, and totaled 47.2 hr before egg-laying ended (means). Nocturnal incubation did not begin earlier in the egg-laying period as the breeding season progressed, as would be expected if it improved hatchability of first-laid eggs. Early onset of incubation did not reduce brood parasitism. Females ended nocturnal incubation 35 min before egg laying began, the number of nights of incubation was not related to the number of parasitic eggs laid, and most (83%) nests were parasitized. In support of the third hypothesis, egg-laying females spending more nights incubating had somewhat shorter incubation periods. /// Examin el inicio del perodo de incubacin en patos de la especie Aix sponsa y evalu las hiptesis de que el comienzo temprano mejora la probabilidad de eclosin, reduce el parasitismo de la nidada y acorta el perodo de incubacin. La mayora (21 de 22) de las hembras comenzaron a incubar durante la noche, 4 das (mediana) antes que la puesta de huevos terminara. En promedio, la incubacin nocturna comenz 18 min antes del anochecer, termin 15 min antes del amanecer, dur 732 min cada noche y totaliz 47.2 hr antes que la puesta de huevos terminara. La incubacin nocturna no comenz ms temprano durante el perodo de puesta de huevos a medida que la estacin reproductiva avanz, como se esperara si sta mejorase la probabilidad de eclosin de los primeros huevos puestos. El inicio temprano de la incubacin no redujo el parasitismo de la nidada. Las hembras terminaron la incubacin nocturna 35 min antes que la puesta de huevos comenzara, el nmero de noches de incubacin no se relacion con el nmero de huevos de aves parsitas puestos y la mayora (83%) de los nidos fueron parasitados. En apoyo a la tercera hiptesis, encontramos que las hembras que pusieron huevos y que pasaron ms noches incubando tuvieron perodos de incubacin un poco ms cortos. 
40072357|I used a robust design to model the influence of age, sex, climate conditions, and chick body mass on the annual survival of the Mountain Plover (
10.2307/1368913|I sampled diets of nestling European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris L.) in central New Mexico for four consecutive years. The prevalence of prey in these diets varied within and between years, within days, and relative to nestling age and brood size. Dietary diversity was not significantly different between early and late broods. Young birds were fed more diverse diets than older nestlings, and among these young birds, large broods had more diverse diets than small broods. Different broods received different prey, despite similar conditions of location, time, weather, brood size and nestling age.
10.2307/1370069|We collected 1,138 prey items from the guts of nestling Magpies (Pica pica) using neck collars. We noted the alterations (appendages missing, breakage) shown by the prey, and gave an index of preparation to the most abundant prey types (adult beetles and grasshopper nymphs). We then related these indices to prey size, age of the nestlings, brood size, and sampling date. Fifty-seven percent of the beetles were prepared, most of them being broken. The probability of breaking a beetle increased as the difference between clutch size and brood size increased, and as the residuals of prey size on sampling date increased. The probability of having at least one elytra removed increased as the beetle size increased and as the difference between clutch size and brood size increased. The degree of preparation of beetles decreased as their size decreased, as the nestlings grew older, and as the difference between clutch size and brood size decreased. Seventy-one percent of the grasshopper nymphs were prepared, the degree of preparation decreasing as their size decreased and as the season progressed. We conclude that the degree of prey preparation by Magpies feeding nestlings is the result of a trade-off between the benefits obtained by the nestlings and the costs to the parents.
1370632| We used banding data from King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis) at Karrak Lake, Nunavut, Canada, during 2001 and 2002 in conjunction with analysis of naturally occurring stable isotopes (<sup>13</sup>C, <sup>15</sup>N) from feathers to connect winter and breeding areas of individuals. We also investigated the occurrence of winter philopatry among nesting females, and examined cross-seasonal effects of wintering area on subsequent breeding. Isotopic data suggested that 66-73% of this central-arctic breeding population wintered to the west (i.e., Bering Sea and North Pacific) and the remaining 24-37% wintered to the east (i.e., west Greenland, northwest Atlantic). In contrast, limited band recoveries from hunter-killed King Eiders marked at the same breeding location suggested that about 56% of individuals were shot in eastern wintering areas. These differences likely reflect stronger hunting pressures along the coast of Greenland, which result in more band recoveries for this area. Our results suggest that female King Eiders were not strongly philopatric to wintering areas among years. Individuals that wintered in western seas initiated nests 1.9 days earlier and had slightly larger clutches during early initiation relative to females that wintered in the east. Nest parasitism appeared to be biased toward earlier nesters, many of which wintered in the west. Female condition during incubation did not vary by wintering area. Our results have important implications for gene flow and for potentially associating wintering-area conditions with overall demography and individual fitness of King Eiders. /// Para conectar las reas de invernada con las de reproduccin en la especie Somateria spectabilis, utilizamos datos de aves anilladas durante 2001 y 2002 en Karrak Lake, Nunavut, Canad, junto con anlisis de isotpos estables que se encuentran en la naturaleza y en las plumas (<sup>13</sup>C, <sup>15</sup>N). Tambin investigamos la existencia de filopatra al sitio de invernada entre hembras nidificantes, y examinamos los efectos del rea de invernada sobre la reproduccin subsiguiente. Los datos isotpicos sugirieron que el 66-73% de los individuos de esta poblacin que nidifica en el rtico central pasa el invierno al oeste (i.e., Mar de Bering, Pacfico Norte) y que el 24-37% restante lo hace al este (i.e., oeste de Groenlandia, noroeste del Atlntico). En contraste, los pocos anillos puestos en la misma localidad reproductiva que fueron recobrados por cazadores, mostraron que alrededor del 56% de los individuos fueron cazados en reas de invernada ubicadas al este. Estas diferencias probablemente reflejan que las presiones de cacera son ms fuertes a lo largo de la costa de Groenlandia, lo que conlleva a que se recobren ms anillos en esta rea. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las hembras de S. spectabilis no son fuertemente filoptricas a sus sitios de invernada entre aos. Los individuos que invernaron en los mares del oeste iniciaron sus nidos 1.9 das ms temprano y tuvieron nidadas ligeramente ms grandes durante la etapa temprana de iniciacin en comparacin con las hembras que invernaron al este. El parasitismo de nidos pareci estar sesgado hacia las aves que nidificaron temprano, muchas de las cuales invernaron en el oeste. La condicin de las hembras durante la incubacin no vari entre reas de invernada. Nuestros resultados tienen implicaciones importantes en trminos de flujo gnico y potencialmente para asociar las condiciones de las reas de invernada con la demografa en general y con la adecuacin biolgica de los individuos de esta especie. 
10.2307/1368390|Black-capped Chickadee (Parus atricapillus) song consists of two notes, termed fee and bee. Frequency measures at three key points (at the start and end of fee, and at the start of bee) were obtained from the songs of a large sample of chickadees (n = 151) in the wild. In this sample, 19 birds produced songs shifted downward in frequency as well as their normal songs. Analysis of normal song revealed that fee declines in frequency in a glissando of nearly pure tone, then continues at greatly reduced amplitude at the start of bee; whereas bee, also a nearly pure tone, is always lower in frequency than either the start or end of fee. The absolute pitches (frequencies) of these measures vary substantially among birds, but much less within individuals. In contrast, pitch intervals (ratios of higher to lower frequencies) for frequency changes among the three measures are highly invariant among birds. Moreover, chickadees with normal and frequency-shifted songs maintain virtually the same pitch intervals in both. This analysis suggests that the absolute and relative pitch constancies in chickadee song production may provide information for individual and species recognition, respectively.
10.1525/cond.2013.110198|We investigate phylogenetic relationships among the foliage-gleaners of the genera
10.1525/cond.2011.100094|Studies examining the effects of human disturbance on avian parental behavior and reproductive success are fundamental to bird conservation. However, many such studies fail to also consider the influence of natural threats, a variable environment, and parental roles. Our work examines interactive relationships of cyclical (time of day, tide, temperature, seasonality) and stochastic (natural/human disturbance) processes with incubation patterns (attendance, bout lengths, recess rates) of the Black Oystercatcher (
3247783|We examined nesting distribution and demography of the Pacific Coast population of Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) using breeding records and band recoveries spanning two decades since the first population assessment. Since 1980, population size has more than doubled to about 12 900 pairs, yet the proportion of the population nesting at inland (18%) versus coastal sites (82%) has remained constant. Although the breeding range of the Pacific Coast population has expanded northward into Alaska and farther south in Mexico, there was no net latitudinal shift in the distribution of breeding pairs or new colonies. The distribution of breeding birds among areas changed dramatically, however, with 69% of breeding terns now nesting in Oregon (primarily in the Columbia River estuary) versus 4% during the late 1970s. During the past 20 years, there has continued to be a greater proportion of Caspian Terns breeding at anthropogenic sites compared to natural sites. Estimated annual survival rates for hatch-year and after-third-year birds during 1981-1998 were greater than during 1955-1980, consistent with the higher rate of population increase in recent decades. Fecundity required to maintain a stable population ( = 1) was estimated at 0.32-0.74 fledglings pair<sup>-1</sup>, depending on band recovery probabilities for subadults. Caspian Terns readily moved among breeding sites and rapidly colonized new areas; however, a greater concentration of breeding Caspian Terns among fewer colonies in response to anthropogenic factors is an important conservation concern for this species. /// Se examino la distribucion de anidamientos y la demografia de la poblacion de Sterna caspia en la costa del Pacifico usando registros reproductivos y anillos recobrados de aves marcadas durante dos decadas desde la primera evaluacion poblacional. Desde 1980 el tamano poblacional se duplico a 12 900 parejas, aunque la proporcion de la poblacion anidando en la zona interior (18%) versus la zona costera (82%) permanecio constante. A pesar de que el rango reproductive de la poblacion costera del Pacifico se expandio hacia el norte llegando a Alaska y hacia el sur hasta Mexico, no hubo un cambio latitudinal neto en la distribucion de parejas reproductivas o de nuevas colonias. Sin embargo, la distribucion de aves reproductivas entre las areas cambio dramaticamente, con un 69% de los individuos reproductivos de Sterna caspia anidando ahora en Oregon (principalmente en el estuario del Rio Columbia) comparado con un 4% a fines de la decada del 70. Durante los ultimos 20 anos continuo habiendo una mayor proporcion de individuos de Sterna caspia anidando en sitios con actividad antropogenica en comparacion con areas naturales. Las tasas de supervivencia anual para aves con menos de un ano y aves con mas de tres anos fueron mayores durante 1981-1998 que durante 1955-1980, lo que es consistente con una mayor tasa de crecimiento poblacional en decadas recientes. La fecundidad requerida para mantener estable la poblacion ( = 1) se estimo en 0.32-0.74 volantones producidos por pareja, dependiendo de la probabilidad de recuperacion de anillos en aves subadultas. Sterna caspia es capaz de moverse entre sitios reproductivos y coloniza nuevas areas rapidamente. No obstante, una mayor concentracion de individuos reproductivos de Sterna caspia en unas pocas colonias, como respuesta a factores antropogenicos, es una importante preocupacien para la conservacion de esta especie.
1370600| We characterized DNA sequence variation in the mitochondrial control region and 12S ribosomal subunit for a sample of Andean Condors (Vultur gryphus) representing populations distributed throughout the species' extensive geographic range (Colombia to central Argentina and Chile). Domains II and III of the control region along with part of the 12S gene were sequenced from 38 individuals (956 base pairs in 30 individuals and 430-824 base pairs for an additional 8 individuals sampled from museum specimens), and Domain I was sequenced from five of these birds (400 base pairs). We identified a total of five haplotypes based on four variable sites distributed over Domains II and III of the control region and the 12S gene. An additional variable site was identified in Domain I. All changes were transitions and no more than three sites differed between any two individuals. Variation in the control region of condors was lower than for most other birds analyzed for these loci. Although low genetic variability is often associated with endangered megafauna, the condor example is notable because the species still maintains a substantial geographic range. Thus, low genetic variability may occur even in megafauna whose ranges have not been severely reduced over recent centuries. Our results therefore suggest that genetic data from geographically widespread megafauna provide important baseline data for assessing the relationship between genetic variability and its causes in other endangered species. /// Caracterizamos la variacin de la secuencia de ADN en la regin de control mitocondrial y la subunidad ribosomal 12S en una muestra de Vultur gryphus representativa de poblaciones distribuidas a lo largo del extenso rango geogrfico de la especie (Colombia, hasta el centro de Argentina y Chile). Los dominios II y III de la regin de control, junto con parte del gen 12S, fueron secuenciados en 38 individuos (956 pares de base en 30 individuos y 430-824 pares de base para una muestra adicional de 8 especmenes de museo), y el dominio I fue secuenciado en 5 de estas aves (400 pares de base). Identificamos un total de cinco haplotipos basados en cuatro sitios variables en los dominios II y III de la regin de control y el gen 12S. Un sitio variable adicional fue identificado en el dominio I. Todos los cambios fueron transiciones y entre dos individuos cualesquiera no variaron ms de 3 sitios. La variacin en la regin de control de los cndores fue ms baja que para la mayora de las aves analizadas para estos mismos loci. Aunque la baja variabilidad gentica es a menudo asociada con megafauna en peligro de extincin, el ejemplo del cndor es notable porque la especie an mantiene un rango geogrfico substancial. As, la baja variabilidad gentica se puede dar incluso en la megafauna cuya dispersin no haya sido sujeta a severas reducciones en los ultimos siglos. Por lo tanto, nuestros resultados sugieren que los datos genticos de rapaces con amplia distribucin geogrfica y de otra megafauna proveen de importante informacin de base para evaluar la relacin existente entre la variabilidad gentica y sus causas en otra megafauna en peligro. 
10.2307/1368768|Attendants (i.e., conspecific individuals exclusive of the breeding pair) are common visitors at active Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) nests during the nestling period. An examination of the chronology of attendant behavior revealed that attendants (i) visited several boxes, (ii) were especially attracted to preferred breeding locations, (iii) significantly increased in number as the breeding season progressed, (iv) were mostly young of the year by the end of the breeding season, and (v) chased nestlings as they fledged. Members of large, premigratory flocks of Tree Swallows examined nest boxes during late August. Attendants were not helpers at the nest and had no demonstrable effect on parental reproductive success (Lombardo 1986a). Tree Swallows, because they are nonexcavating cavity nesters, face intense competition for a limited number of suitable nest sites. Sexually mature attendants at nests during the egg laying, incubation, and early nestling periods may be searching for exploitable breeding opportunities (e.g., see Leffelaar and Robertson 1985, Stutchbury and Robertson 1985). I hypothesize that hatching-year attendants, common during the late nestling period, are individuals in search of potential future nest sites. I call this the "exploratory-dispersal" hypothesis. Exploratory dispersal should be of special selective advantage to migratory, nonexcavating cavity nesters.
10.2307/1369750| Breeding Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) maintain pair-bonds later into the incubation period than most other species of North American ducks. We tested whether being paired was beneficial to females during incubation by comparing incubation constancy, incubation period, changes in female body mass, and reproductive success in a mate removal experiment. Females were assigned randomly to one of two treatments: paired controls (n = 24) or widowed (n = 21). Mates of females were removed early in incubation (x = day 5), and nests of paired and widowed females were equipped with temperature data loggers to record the presence and absence of incubating females. Paired and widowed females did not differ significantly with respect to incubation constancy, incubation period, body mass, or nesting and hatching success. Paired females, however, tended to produce second broods more often than widowed females. Being paired did not result in advantages to incubating females, but longer attendance by male Wood Ducks may benefit both sexes where breeding seasons are long and future reproductive opportunities (i.e., second broods) are more likely to occur. 
1370118| Genetic parentage in the socially monogamous and territorial Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus) was examined in a central New York population by multilocus DNA fingerprinting. Extra-pair young were identified in 60% (12 of 20) of nests. Of the 64 nestlings profiled, 42% were sired by extra-pair males, but no cases of conspecific brood parasitism were detected. These results are markedly different from a previous electrophoretic study of the same species in a Michigan population, which reported 39% of nestlings were unrelated to one (typically the mother, quasiparasitism) or both (conspecific brood parasitism) of the putative parents. In the New York population, extra-pair paternity was most common among females that returned to breed on a former territory. Among females that were new to a breeding territory, extra-pair paternity increased directly with breeding density. Although the power of the tests was low, neither breeding synchrony nor male experience with a breeding territory appeared to be associated with the occurrence of extra-pair young. /// Se examin la paternidad gentica de Tyrannus tyrannus, especie socialmente mongama y territorial, mediante la tcnica de huellas dactilares genticas de mltiples loci en una poblacin de Nueva York central. En el 60% (12 de 20) de los nidos se identificaron juveniles con origen extra-pareja. De los 64 pichones investigados, el 42% fue engendrado por machos fuera de la pareja, aunque no se detectaron nidadas con parasitismo conespecfico. Estos resultados son considerablemente diferentes a los obtenidos en un estudio previo para la misma especie en una poblacin de Michigan, el cual report que el 39% de los pichones no estaban relacionados con uno (tipicamente a la madre, cuasiparasitismo) o ambos (parasitismo de nido conespecfico) padres putativos. En la poblacin de Nueva York, la paternidad extra-pareja fue ms comn entre hembras que retornaron a criar a territorios que haban ocupado previamente. Entre las hembras que ocuparon por primera vez un territorio de cra, la paternidad extra-pareja aument directamente con la densidad de individuos reproductivos. A pesar que el poder del anlisis fue bajo, ni la sincrona reproductiva, ni la experiencia de los machos en sus territorios de cria, parecen estar asociados a la ocurrencia de juveniles extra-pareja. 
4151066| Colony edges, as opposed to interiors, are often considered less advantageous nesting places in colonial species. For temperate-breeding penguins, inland colony edges should be less desirable than other edges, as there are added costs of walking farther inland, and ambient temperatures are higher. During settlement and incubation, we compared body condition and baseline and stress-induced levels of the hormone corticosterone in male Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) nesting on the sea edge of a colony with those nesting on the inland edge, >800 m from shore. Body condition in both groups was significantly lower during settlement than during incubation, but was similar in both groups within breeding stages. Corticosterone levels were similar between breeding stages and for groups within each breeding stage. While body condition can vary over time, penguins appear to be well buffered to physiological extremes, as they do not show modification of corticosterone levels with variations in nesting conditions. /// En especies coloniales, los bordes de la colonia son generalmente considerados como lugares menos ventajosos para el establecimiento de nidos. Para los pinginos que cran en climas templados, los bordes de las colonias orientados tierra adentro deben ser menos deseables que otros bordes, ya que se suman los costos adicionales de caminar una distancia mayor desde la orilla y debido a que las temperaturas ambientes all son ms elevadas. Durante el establecimiento y la incubacin, comparamos las condiciones corporales y los niveles de referencia e inducidos por estrs de la hormona corticosterona en los machos de Spheniscus magellanicus que anidaban en el borde de la colonia adyacente al mar con los que anidaban sobre el borde que mira hacia el interior, a ms de 800 m desde la orilla. La condicin corporal en los dos grupos fue significantemente menor durante el establecimiento que durante la incubacin, pero fue similar en los dos grupos durante las etapas de crianza. Los niveles de corticosterona fueron similares para ambas etapas de crianza y para los dos grupos durante cada etapa de crianza. Aunque la condicin corporal puede variar en el tiempo, los pinglinos parecen amortiguar bien los extremos fisiolgicos, ya que no muestran modificacin de los niveles de corticosterona con las variaciones en las condiciones de nidificacin. 
10.2307/1369508| We studied nesting chronology and success of Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) on the coastal Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska during the summers of 1991-1993. We found a total of 795 nests during three annual searches of a 27.4 km
10.2307/1369647|We studied Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) copulation behavior in two geographically separated subpopulations with different breeding densities. In the low density area, the nearest neighbor distance between nests was 7 km, and in the high density area 1.4 km. The frequency of successful copulations was significantly higher in the high density area, 0.65 hr<sup>-1</sup> as compared to 0.30 hr<sup>-1</sup>. Extra-pair copulations were recorded only in the high density area, and extra-pair visits by intruding Ospreys also were more frequent there. There was no relation between copulations and delivery of food or nest material. Our results support the idea that copulation behavior is related to breeding density, but whether or not this is a result of sperm competition or some other social factor remains undetermined.
10.1525/cond.2010.090236|The use of social information has recently been documented in a wide variety of animals, with potentially diverse consequences for those living in heterogeneous landscapes. Here we review and synthesize investigations on the use of social information in heterogeneous landscapes and provide a conceptual framework for interpreting the role social information plays for birds living in human-modified landscapes. Our framework emphasizes the spatial components of the availability and value of social information and how landscape change can alter the availability and perceived value of social information to individuals. As an example of the utility of an information-based perspective, we discuss investigations of habitat use by the Bobolink (
40072452|Long-term datasets reveal declines in many populations of landbird migrants, with declines especially evident in shrub-nesting species. Moreover, transitional shrub-dominated habitats are becoming scarce, reducing breeding habitat for these species. Because migrants often occupy habitats en route similar to those used in the breeding season, the persistence of shrub-dominated habitats may be especially critical for these species during passage. Because little is known about migrant-habitat relationships, especially at inland, unforested stopover sites, we compared the importance of forested and upland shrub-dominated habitat to spring migrating landbirds by comparing: (1) temporal and habitat-related variation in resource abundance, and (2) migrant use of forested vs. shrub-dominated habitat during stopover. We collected data on bird-habitat relationships and invertebrate abundance from both habitats at two sites in or near Lackawanna State Park, Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania. We captured and counted more short-distance and long-distance migrants in shrub habitat (256 birds per 1000 mist-net hours and seven birds per 100 m of survey transect) than in forested habitat (67 birds per 1000 mist-net hours and three birds per 100 m of transect), and shrub habitat contained a somewhat greater diversity of migrants (H = 4.0 vs. 3.9). We also measured greater flying invertebrate biomass in shrub vs. forested habitat, although there was no difference in flightless invertebrate biomass between the two habitats. Our results support the hypothesis that migrant habitat use reflects spatial differences in resource abundance and indicate that shrub-dominated habitats may be important stopover habitat for landbird migrants.
40072369|We studied sex differences in collision mortality in adult Common Terns (
10.2307/1367750|Prey utilization was investigated at 11 Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nests in Arizona over a five-year period beginning in 1978. Visual observations of prey species delivered to the nest and those found in prey remains were in good agreement. Fish, primarily channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and other benthic-feeding fish, composed 77% of the prey items found at the nest. Diurnal timing of capture of fish was not found to vary significantly. Measurement of river-bottom profiles at 22 foraging sites yielded similar physical characteristics. Such characteristics indicate a strong relationship between river-bottom profile and acquisition of benthic-feeding fish by Bald Eagles.
10.1525/cond.2011.100036|We studied the effects of the edge between two forest types on the probability of occurrence of seven species of birds and found that four responded to the edge on only one side. Over 4 years, we measured the responses of forest birds to the edge between ponderosa pine forest undergoing restoration and neighboring untreated stands. Of the seven species analyzed, one occurred most frequently near the edge. Of the remaining six, none responded to the edge in the treated forest, but four responded in the untreated forest. Relatively few studies have examined abundance changes on both sides of an edge between distinct habitats that support similar bird communities, and predictive models of edge effects used for mapping animal responses to habitat change often assume that animal abundance will change on both sides of this sort of edge, declining near the edge in the habitat in which the species is most abundant and increasing near the edge in the habitat in which the species is less abundant. One-sided edge effects, such as those we have documented, may lead to markedly different predictions of the effects of habitat change on bird abundance in heterogeneous landscapes.
10.2307/1369064|Fall and winter (September through March) weekly census data from 1978 through 1992 were examined for 18 species of birds in forests and cultivated fields near Manhattan, Kansas. The 18 species were grouped into five feeding guilds: frugivores; granivores on the ground; acorn cachers; leaf, bud, and twig gleaners; and trunk and branch gleaners. Frugivores exhibited the most variable populations, both within years and between consecutive years. Granivores on the ground exhibited the second most within-year population variability. Among the remaining guilds, there were no statistically significant differences among either the within- or between-year variabilities. Although data were limited, there were significant correlations between the mean numbers in some species of frugivores, granivores, and acorn cachers and relative annual fruit or seed crop size in the area. The size and mobility of feeding flocks, the annual variability of food crops, and the manner of food exploitation all influenced the between-year variability of winter bird species population density. The rank order of between-year variability for species populations censused on Christmas Bird Counts in the same area correlated significantly with between-year variability of our weekly censuses. The within-year nomadic tendencies of some of the species with the greatest between-year variability decreased the correlation between Christmas Bird Counts and mean weekly censuses for these species.
10.2307/1369535|We studied the thermal environment of Wood Duck (Aix sponsa) nests in southeastern British Columbia. Mean daily nest temperatures (T<sub>N</sub>) were correlated with maximum daily air temperatures. T<sub>N</sub> increased as the egg-laying period advanced among both successful and unsuccessful nests, although T<sub>N</sub> was lower among unsuccessful nests. Hens began spending nights on nests when there were as few as four eggs in clutches. T<sub>N</sub> and the precision of nest thermoregulation increased among successful nests as the incubation period advanced, although there was a great deal of variation between days and nests. Length of the incubation period was not correlated with clutch size, nor with mean overall nest temperature during incubation, but was correlated with the variance of T<sub>N</sub>'s during incubation.
10.2307/1369069|Hematocrits were measured in migratory Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) on their high altitude (3,000 m) breeding grounds during seven consecutive summers. Contrary to expectations, hematocrits were highest in newly arrived individuals then declined thereafter until the end of postnuptial molt. They then increased prior to autumnal migration. Hematocrits were higher in males than in females until onset of parental care but not thereafter. A large, rapid decrease in hematocrit was observed in females prior to ovulation and it remained low during oviposition. Hematocrits were at their lowest in both sexes during postnuptial molt. These changes in relative quantity of erythrocytes may involve a variety of underlying causes. Among them are the metabolic demands associated with migration and thermoregulation, differential effects of sex steroids on erythropoiesis, osmotic effects on plasma volume when nutrient loads in plasma are high, such as during ovogenesis and perhaps molt, and transient changes in blood volume during molt.
1370617| Across their range, Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) consistently construct their nests adjacent to and north of a conspicuous object such as a tuft of grass, shrub, or rock. We studied the relative importance of a northern nest orientation to nest microclimate in Horned Larks breeding in northeastern California. Nests showed a significant northern bias in orientation angle and were 49% shaded in the early afternoon, the hottest part of the day. Artificial nests of eastern, western, and southern orientations exhibited little to no shade during this time. A northern nest orientation also allowed nests to face prevailing winds during the day and avoid them in the evening. The Horned Larks' preference for a northern nest orientation offers multiple advantages for regulation of nest microclimate. /// De forma consistente a lo largo de su rango de distribucin, Eremophila alpestris construye sus nidos adyacentes a y al norte de objetos conspicuos, como parches de pasto, arbustos o rocas. Estudiamos la importancia relativa de la orientacin de los nidos hacia el norte para el microclima de stos en individuos de E. alpestris que se reproducen en el noreste de California. El ngulo de orientacin de los nidos present un sesgo significativo hacia el norte y stos tuvieron un 49% de sombra durante las primeras horas de la tarde, el perodo ms caliente del da. Nidos artificiales con orientacin hacia el este, oeste y sur exhibieron poca o ninguna sombra durante esa parte del da. La orientacin hacia el norte tambin permiti a los nidos orientarse hacia la direccin predominante del viento durante el da y evitar los vientos durante el atardecer. La preferencia de E. alpestris por la orientacin de los nidos hacia el norte ofrece mltiples ventajas para la regulacin del microclima del nido. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100214|Long-term monitoring is essential to understand the effect of environmental change on bird populations. Ornithological field stations that have recorded detailed demographic data on bird populations over decades are well positioned to make important contributions to emerging research questions. On the basis of our experience at PRBO Conservation Science's Palomarin Field Station and a review of the literature, we assess the ability of field stations to use their long-term data to address current and future issues in conservation and management. We identify barriers to the application of data from field stations as well as some of the unique contributions made by these stations, and we present recommendations regarding the development, maintenance, and enhanced application of long-term data.
10.2307/1368189|Nest-site selection of Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) was studied for two summers in a northern hardwood forest in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. Nest placement in the shrub layer was examined to evaluate several alternative hypotheses concerning the selection of nest-site microhabitat. Nest-sites tended to be in dense patches of hobblebush (Viburnum alnifolium) with denser vegetation below 1.5 m and more open vegetation between 1.5-3 m than at random points. Shrub densities at nests and at random points within hobblebush patches were, in nearly all cases, statistically indistinguishable. Nests were placed in large patches of shrubs much more often than at random points and in larger patches of hobblebush more often than at random points within hobblebush patches. Black-throated Blue Warblers placed their nest in more concealed locations compared to empty nests placed at random locations. Concealment indices of successful and depredated nests, however, were not significantly different from one another. Several reasons why this species chose particular microhabitats within the shrub layer are discussed.
10.2307/1368756|We describe dialects in the flight whistle of the Brown-headed Cowbird and contrast previous hypotheses for the maintenance of dialects with a new one that assumes that a male's ability to give the correct local dialect is an honest signal of relatively high male quality. The three dialects upon which we focus are part of an extensive dialect system along the eastern Sierra Nevada. The dialects are partially isolated by unsuitable habitat and are unusual because they differ via lexical rather than the less extreme phonetic differences that characterize song dialects in most other species. Because males whistle just before copulating, whistles may function in mate choice. Since flight whistles are also used over long distances, we predicted and confirmed that males within the same dialect have quantitative whistle differences of potential value for individual recognition. Other quantitative analyses indicated phonetic differences among homologous whistle elements from adjacent dialects. Recordings made between 1978 and 1980 showed no quantitative or qualitative differences from a large sample of 142 males recorded between 1983 and 1985. Such temporal stability is expected since the dialects are large, being 10 to 30 km in extent and probably contain hundreds of individuals. Historical records demonstrate that the dialect populations developed since the late 1930s. Males banded in one dialect but recorded in another made up 13.0% of our adult sample and were more likely to have foreign whistles than adults banded and recorded in the same dialect. Yearling males were significantly less likely to whistle than adults, and yearlings that did whistle were significantly more likely to have foreign whistles. Thus possession of a locally appropriate whistle is a reliable indicator of a male's age which is a major correlate of male mating success and possibly of male quality, as nearly all copulations involve adult males. These age differences are consistent with our new "honest convergence" hypothesis and inconsistent with the local or genetic adaptation hypothesis which predicts that vocal ontogeny is closed by a male's first breeding season. Bilingual males and those with hybrid whistles combining elements from two dialects made up 0 to 8% of the males within dialect areas. By contrast, 38% of males in one contact zone between two dialects were bilingual and 54% of males in another contact zone gave hybrid whistles. These trends are consistent with the honest convergence hypothesis and inconsistent with hypotheses that dialects are maintained by isolation or because they contribute to local adaptation among populations.
10.1525/cond.2012.120026|
               
40306214|Earlier initiation of nests by breeding birds may reflect an adaptive response to changes in food availability or warming of spring temperatures, but the consequences of initiating nests too early may be severe, particularly at high elevations. A rare snowstorm in late May 2008 resulted in nest abandonment by 68% of Red-faced Warblers (
40072365|Nest placement affects the risk of predation on both eggs and incubating parents and determines the microclimate for incubation, two functions that may be in conflict, especially in hot deserts. We studied the roles of microclimate and nest predation on nest site selection by Hoopoe Larks (
10.2307/1369352|Predation of quail eggs in artificial nests was measured to assess potential nesting success of songbirds in adjacent deciduous, coniferous, and successional habitats at three locations in York County, Pennsylvania. During the simulated 12-day incubation period, survivorship of nests in the successional habitats was greater than nest survivorship in the coniferous and deciduous habitats. Overall, survivorship of ground nests was greater than that of above ground nests. The Conewago location had lower predation than both Kain and Pinchot. This difference was primarily due to the low above ground nest predation in the deciduous and coniferous habitats at Conewago compared to that at both Kain and Pinchot. At all locations predation of ground nests in successional habitats was less than that of above ground nests. Level of predation did not correlate significantly with any of eight measures of habitat structure. Differences in predation among the three locations may be due to anthropogenic factors as well as other characteristics of the surrounding landscape.
10.2307/1368563|The parameters of egg acceptance in Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) and Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) were investigated by introducing into their nests various eggs and objects. With the exception of miniature eggs, both species accepted all eggs, real and artificial, and rejected all nonegg-shaped objects. Egg shape and size were necessary components of egg acceptance whereas color and markings were not. The rejection of nonegg-shaped objects as large as Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs demonstrated that inability to remove cowbird eggs was not responsible for blackbird acceptance responses. Nests parasitized before the onset of egg laying did not increase the probability of either the egg being rejected or the nest being inactive.
10.2307/1368237|Our previous studies of communally roosting European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) revealed that each bird fed daily for months on its own "diurnal activity center" (DAC) and commuted to a variety of nearby and distant roosts. Since these observations contrast sharply with the predictions of most foraging explanations for communal roosting, we wanted to determine if this DAC-centered roosting pattern occurred in other communally roosting species. In this study we used radiotelemetry to monitor feeding and roosting sites used by starlings, Common Grackles (Quiscalus quiscula), and American Robins (Turdus migratorious), three species that share communal roosts in central New Jersey. Our goals were to determine (a) whether avian species that roost together use the roosts in similar ways, and (b) when and why individuals change roosts. Foraging patterns were similar in all three species; individuals fed daily on their DACs for many weeks. Roosting patterns were similar for grackles and starlings; individuals switched among nearby and distant roosts. In contrast, robins always roosted near their DACs, changing both roosts and DACs at the end of the breeding season. Predation rates at roosts were extremely low and did not explain the use patterns of large and small roosts. We argue that (a) DACs and DAC-centered roosting are probably widespread among communally roosting species, and (b) DAC-based individuals select roosts primarily on the basis of their proximity to good sources of food.
1370043| We studied patterns of parental care in Crested Auklets (Aethia cristatella), a monogamous seabird, for three breeding seasons (1996-1998) in the Aleutian Islands, Alaska, using radio-telemetry. In 1996, we found no sexual differences in parental care, low breeding site attendance rates, and reduced occurrences of copepods in food samples delivered to chicks, suggesting that food availability may have been low. In 1997 and 1998, we found significant differences in parental care between males and females, particularly early in the chick-rearing period: males attended and brooded their single chick 75% and 90% longer than females, while females provisioned 33% and 36% more often than males, respectively. We also found significant differences between prey types delivered to chicks by males and females for these two years. Males brought in 30% more euphausiids, a relatively large pelagic crustacean, than females, whereas females brought in 36% more copepods, a smaller crustacean, than males; however, prey mass per load did not differ. In 1998, we experimentally measured how vulnerable unattended young chicks were using models placed in unoccupied crevices. Eighty-three percent of the models showed signs of attack, presumably by conspecific adults. We concluded that unattended Crested Auklet chicks are highly vulnerable to attack. We suggest that males took on a greater role in chick brooding than their mates because they have a larger and more strongly hooked bill and are more aggressive than females, and thus better equipped than females to guard young chicks or the crevice breeding site. /// Utilizando radiotelemetra para estudiar los patrones de cuidado parental en Aethia cristatella, un ave marina mongama, durante tres perodos reproductivos (1996-1998) en las Islas Aleutianas, Alaska. En 1996 no encontramos diferencias sexuales en el cuidado parental, encontramos bajas tasas de presencia en el lugar de nidificacin, y baja ocurrencia de coppodos en las muestras de alimento entregadas a los polluelos, lo cual sugiere que la disponibilidad de alimento podra haber sido baja. En 1997 y 1998 encontramos diferencias significativas en el cuidado parental entre hembras y machos, particularmente en el perodo temprano de cra de los polluelos. Los machos asistieron y empollaron su nico polluelo por un perodo un 75% y 90% ms largo que las hembras, mientras que las hembras aprovisionaron con una frecuencia un 33% y 36% mayor que los machos, respectivamente. Tambin encontramos diferencias significativas entre el tipo de presa entregado por las hembras y por los machos durante los dos aos. Los machos entregaron un 30% ms de eufusidos (crustceos pelgico relativamente grandes) que las hembras, mientras que stas entregaron un 36% ms de coppodos (crustceos ms pequeos) que los machos. Sin embargo, el peso de la carga de alimento no vari. En 1998 medimos experimentalmente la vulnerabilidad de los polluelos no cuidados utilizando modelos situados en grietas desocupadas. El 83% de los modelos presentaron signos de ataques presumiblemente producidos por adultos coespecficos. Concluimos que los polluelos no cuidados de A. cristatella son altamente vulnerables a ataques. Sugerimos que los machos tomaron un rol ms importante en la crianza de los polluelos que sus parejas debido a que ellos presentan un pico ms grande y fuertemente arqueado y son ms agresivos que las hembras. Por lo tanto estn mejor equipados que las hembras para proteger a los polluelos o proteger el sitio de nidificacin. 
10.2307/1369315|Concentrations of Na<sup>+</sup>, K<sup>+</sup>, and Cl<sup>-</sup> in digestive tract fluid were measured in eight saline-acclimated domestic Pekin ducks, Anas platyrhynchos, and the concentration of nonabsorbable luminal marker <sup>14</sup>C-polyethylene glycol (<sup>14</sup>C-PEG, orally loaded in 180 mM NaCl) was measured in five of these birds. The birds were sacrificed and the gut was ligated into sections. All sections were hyponatremic to plasma; [Cl<sup>-</sup>] in the proventriculus and ventriculus were equal to and higher than plasma [Cl<sup>-</sup>], respectively, and elsewhere [Cl<sup>-</sup>] was less than plasma [Cl<sup>-</sup>]. The [Na<sup>+</sup>]/[K<sup>+</sup>] ratio (1.5 or less) was lower than that of birds without salt glands (2-3, Hurwitz et al. 1970). The initial 10-fold dilution of [<sup>14</sup>C-PEG] in the duodenum and subsequent 80-fold increase in [<sup>14</sup>C-PEG] in the ileum are consistent with secretion into the duodenum and net absorption of Na<sup>+</sup> and water in the ileum. Rectal (and cecal) [<sup>14</sup>C-PEG] was 5-fold lower than ileal [<sup>14</sup>C-PEG], a decrease presumably due to retropulsion of urine into the rectal-cecal complex. These observations suggest sodium-replete ducks continue to reflux urine into the hindgut where NaCl and water uptake have been shown to occur (Skadhauge et al. 1984) and offer indirect evidence that hindgut NaCl reabsorption and extrarenal NaCl secretion may be linked.
4500996| Interspecific differences in sexually selected traits may be important for maintaining reproductive isolation among closely related species living in sympatry. We present the first study of plumage color differences among males of partially sympatric species of South American red-breasted meadowlarks-the White-browed Blackbird (Sturnella superciliaris), the Pampas Meadowlark (S. defilippii), and the Long-tailed Meadowlark (S. loyca)-using reflectance spectrophotometry and the avian visual model of Vorobyev and Osorio (1998). Reflectance values of sexually dichromatic red plumage patches were measured on study skins. Total reflectance, reflectance in the short wavelength part of the spectrum, and several measures of spectral shape were extracted directly from the spectra. Our analyses revealed that S. loyca and S. defilippii were brighter and had higher reflectance in the short wavelength part of the spectrum than S. superciliaris. Minimum reflectance was located at higher wavelengths in breeding than in nonbreeding plumage. Interspecific distances in avian visual space obtained from the Vorobyev and Osorio (1998) model were considerably higher than the threshold value for color discrimination, indicating that the differences found are also detectable by birds. Taken together, these results show that the red plumage patches of these three species present significant color differences throughout the year, not only in the visible but also in the UV part of the spectrum. /// Las diferencias interespecficas en caracteres sexualmente seleccionados pueden ser importantes para mantener el aislamiento reproductivo entre especies simptricas cercanamente emparentadas. Este es el primer estudio de las diferencias de coloracin de plumaje entre machos de especies parcialmente simptricas de pechos colorados sudamericanos (Sturnella superciliaris, S. defilippii, y S. loyca) usando espectrofotometra de reflectancia y el modelo de percepcin visual de Vorobyev y Osorio (1998). Los valores de reflectancia de los parches rojos sexualmente dimrficos fueron medidos en pieles de estudio. La reflectancia total, la reflectancia en la porcin de onda corta del espectro y varias medidas de forma espectral fueron obtenidas directamente de los espectros. Nuestros anlisis revelaron que S. loyca y S. defilippii fueron ms brillantes y tuvieron mayor reflectancia en la regin de onda corta del espectro que S. superciliaris. La posicin de reflectancia mnima se localiz a longitudes de onda mayores en el plumaje reproductivo comparado con el no reproductivo. Las distancias interespecficas en el espacio visual aviano obtenidas del modelo de Vorobyev y Osorio (1998) fueron considerablemente mayores que el valor umbral de discriminacin de color, indicando que estas diferencias son tambin detectables por las aves. Tomados en su conjunto, estos resultados muestran que los parches de plumaje rojo de estas tres especies presentan diferencias significativas en la coloracin durante todo el ao tanto en la porcin visible del espectro como en la UV. 
10.2307/1370218|Joseph Grinnell, first Director of the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology at the University of California, Berkeley, was a dedicated and remarkably prescient conservationist, as well as a pioneer western ornithologist. He was one of the first to recognize that birds have particular value in conservation because of their charisma, familiarity, and sensitivity to environmental conditions. History has proven Grinnell right, as evidenced by the influence of birds and ornithology in efforts to protect species and their habitats. However, threats to natural landscapes in western North America continue on a scale even Grinnell might not have predicted. Ornithologically-based conservation efforts must be re-doubled, focused on subjects such as landscape and metapopulation models specifically for western habitats, the use of large-scale data sets, the genetic structure of species and populations, avian responses to environmental stressors and disease, and studies of birds in winter.
1370711| Past work with captive Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) has suggested geographic variation in the relative importance females place on the two categories of male courtship song, flight whistles and perched songs. However, audio-recorded copulation sequences showed that western M. a. obscurus (California) and eastern M. a. ater (Maryland, Oklahoma and Missouri) males gave both song categories immediately before and during most sequences in nature, matching previously reported data for the third subspecies, M. a. artemisiae. Thus field data provide no evidence for geographic variation in song use during mating. Because female lordosis responses to flight whistles in captivity can be negated by certain research methodologies, unlike perched song responses, flight whistle responsiveness appears to be more dependent on experience. In all regions, males sang at higher rates prior to and during copulation than in other contexts, a distinctive manner of vocalization that may influence female mating and fertilization choices. /// Estudios anteriores que utilizaron individuos de Molothrus ater en cautiverio han sugerido una variacin geogrfica en la importancia relativa que dan las hembras a las dos categoras de canto de cortejo de los machos: silbido al vuelo y canto de percheo. Sin embargo, grabaciones de audio secuencias de copulacin mostraron que en estado silvestre los machos de M. a. obscurus del oeste (California) y M. a. ater del este (Maryland, Oklahoma y Missouri), presentaron las dos categoras de canto antes y durante la mayora de las secuencias, lo que concuerda con datos previamente reportados para una tercera subespecie, M. a. artemisiae. Por lo tanto, los datos de campo no proveen evidencia de variacin geogrfica en el uso de los cantos durante el apareamiento. Debido a que la respuesta de lordosis de las hembras al silbido al vuelo se ve alterada por la variacin en las metodologas de investigacin usadas en cautiverio, mientras que la respuesta al canto de percheo no, la respuesta al silbido al vuelo parece ser ms maleable. En todas las regiones, los machos cantaron a una mayor tasa antes y durante la cpula que en otros contextos, lo que representa un modo de vocalizacin distintivo que puede influenciar la eleccin de la pareja y fertilizacin de las hembras. 
10.2307/1368685|The morphological bases of flightlessness in the Auckland Islands Teal (Anas [a.] aucklandica) are described through mensural and qualitative comparisons with its flighted relatives--Grey Teal (A. gibberifrons), Chestnut Teal (A. castanea), and Brown Teal (A. chlorotis)--using 448 study skins, 107 skeletons, dissections of three anatomical specimens, and supplementary data on body mass and wing areas of other dabbling ducks. Limited mensural data also were collected from two skin specimens and 38 skeletal elements of the flightless Campbell Island Teal (A. [a.] nesiotis). Anas aucklandica is the smallest of the four species, has the smallest relative wing length in the subtribe Anateae, and has tail lengths showing higher variance and sexual dimorphism than those of its closest flighted relatives. Numbers of primary remiges show a modal reduction of one in A. aucklandica, but counts varied from seven to 10 per wing and 21% of the specimens were laterally asymmetric in counts; a loss of several secondary remiges also is indicated. Anas aucklandica is characterized by a 50% reduction in the mean length of primary remiges and increased variation of the lengths of primary remiges; these changes together result in the highest wing loadings in Anas (2.2 g cm<sup>-2</sup>). Canonical analysis of external measurements confirmed that "relative wing size" of A. aucklandica is substantially less than that of its flighted relatives, a proportionality which also characterizes juveniles of all four species; A. chlorotis was intermediate in relative wing size. Sexual dimorphism is comparatively great in A. aucklandica, despite its smaller overall size. Osteological measurements confirmed a roughly 50-mm reduction in skeletal wing length of A. aucklandica, and revealed that the humerus is disproportionately long and the ulna and carpometacarpus disproportionately short in the species; a similar pattern of disproportionately long proximal segments and disproportionately short mid-elements occurs in the leg. Multivariate comparisons of five sternal measurements indicate that A. aucklandica, and to a lesser degree A. chlorotis, show juvenile characters of shallow carinae and caudal emargination. Canonical analysis of 23 skeletal measurements revealed that the juvenile skeletal proportions of A. aucklandica and the intermediate proportions of A. chlorotis, relative to A. gibberifrons and A. castanea, define a complex axis contrasting dimensions of the pectoral girdle, antebrachium, and manus with those of the skull, humerus, leg elements, and other measurements of the manus and sternum. Dissections indicate that A. aucklandica is virtually identical (qualitatively) to A. castanea and A. gibberifrons in its pectoral musculature, but that most pectoral muscles are disproportionately small in the flightless form. The unique morphometrics and presumed genetic isolation of A. aucklandica justify its recognition as specifically distinct from A. chlorotis; the taxonomy of the group has had significant implications for evolutionary inferences in the past. Anas aucklandica is the only anatid in which loss of flight was coincident with a derived decrease in body size. Small body size, underdevelopment of the pectoral appendage, and lessened sexual dichromatism of A. aucklandica, and to a lesser extent A. chlorotis, are interpreted as paedomorphic conditions, adaptive as developmentally economic changes related to year-round residency in a predator-depauperate insular environment, and are most likely the result of progenesis. Correlated changes in life histories, particularly increased egg size and decreased clutch size, characterize both A. chlorotis and A. aucklandica and distinguish the paedomorphosis of A. aucklandica as an exception to the general association between K-selection and neoteny.
40306195|Birds of the forest canopy are important components of tropical forest ecosystems, but difficulty of access or viewing into the canopy complicates their study. If ground methods are biased against canopy birds, as has been suggested, this bias could affect our understanding of forest ecology as well as biological monitoring and conservation practices. This study is the first to quantitatively compare results from ground- and canopy-based methods of censusing canopy birds. I used three methods to assess differences in ground-based and canopy-based methods for detecting forest birds in a 100-ha plot of lowland forest in northern Honduras: (1) point counts from the ground, (2) 22 repeat censuses from two canopy trees, and (3) single censuses from 22 canopy trees. I counted birds for a full annual cycle from April 2006 to April 2007 and recorded 157 species in over 4000 individual detections. Ground methods significantly underestimated species and familial richness as well as abundance of individuals in the canopy stratum. On the basis of these results, I predict that the use of ground methods alone misses 25 to 50% of the species richness for some migrant and resident families and underestimates the density of some species by as much as 25%. These findings highlight the risk of relying on ground-based methods for bird studies in structurally complex tropical forests; reliance on ground-based methods may negatively affect long-term biological monitoring and the setting of conservation priorities for tropical forests.
10.2307/1369509|Capture-recapture and band recovery models were used to estimate age-specific survival probabilities for female Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata), Common Pochards (Aythya ferina), and Tufted Ducks (Aythya fuligula) at Engure Marsh, Latvia, in 1964-1993. We banded more than 65,100 day-old ducklings of both sexes and captured 10,211 incubating females (3,713 new bandings and 6,498 recaptures). We developed a set of 3-age capture-recapture models to estimate annual survival rates for female ducklings, yearlings (SY), and adults (ASY) using programs SURGE and SURVIV and selected parsimonious models using a method developed by Akaike (1973). Survival rates of SY and ASY females were highest for Tufted Ducks intermediate for Common Pochards, and lowest for Northern Shovelers. Survival rates of SY and ASY females varied in parallel for shovelers and pochards. We believe that much of the difference in survival estimates between SY and ASY birds was caused by mortality rather than permanent emigration. Estimates of day-old duckling survival, reflecting both mortality and permanent emigration, were 0.12 for shoveler, 0.06 for pochard, and 0.03 for Tufted Duck. For all species, duckling survival varied over years, but the pattern of variation was not similar to that of the other age classes. Estimates of survival using band recovery data for SY + ASY female pochards and Tufted Ducks were similar to the capture-recapture estimates, suggesting that surviving females returned to the breeding marsh with probabilities approaching 1.
10.1525/cond.2011.090252|The tropical Andes rank first among the world's 25 "hotspots" of biodiversity and endemism yet are threatened and little studied. We contrast population trends in avian diversity in montane cloud forest (
10.2307/1370203|We analyzed song differences between adults and subadults of the Black Redstart (Phoenicurus ochruros) breeding in the Western Alps and found differences both among individuals and between the two age categories. The song parameters utilized for differentiation of individuals were different from those used for adults and subadults. A playback experiment simulating territory intrusion revealed that adults reacted more quickly to the broadcast of an adult song, whereas the reverse was found for subadults. Females did not react to the playback. The results of this study do not support the hypothesis that subadult males mimic female or juvenile behavior (Female or Juvenile Mimicry Hypothesis) nor the Nonadaptive Hypothesis which predicts an equal response to adult and subadult intrusions. We suggest that subadult Black Redstarts honestly signal their status with both visual and acoustic cues. The Status Signaling and the Polyterritorial Deception Hypotheses both seem to explain the data collected for this species.
1370631| The King Eider (Somateria spectabilis) has been delineated into two broadly distributed breeding populations in North America (the western and eastern Arctic) on the basis of banding data and their use of widely separated Pacific and Atlantic wintering areas. Little is known about the level of gene flow between these two populations. Also unknown is whether behavioral patterns common among migratory waterfowl, such as site fidelity to wintering areas and pair formation at these sites, have existed for sufficient time to create a population structure defined by philopatry to wintering rather than to nesting locations. We used six nuclear microsatellite DNA loci and cytochrome b mitochondrial DNA sequence data to estimate the extent of spatial genetic differentiation among nesting and wintering areas of King Eiders across North America and adjacent regions. Estimates of interpopulation variance in microsatellite allele and mtDNA haplotype frequency were both low and nonsignificant based on samples from three wintering and four nesting areas. Results from nested clade analysis, mismatch distributions, and coalescent-based analyses suggest historical population growth and gene flow that collectively may have homogenized gene frequencies. The presence of several unique mtDNA haplotypes among birds wintering near Greenland suggests that gene flow may now be more limited between the western and eastern Arctic, which is consistent with banding data. /// Con base en datos de anillamiento y en el uso de reas de invernada separadas en el Pacfico y el Atlntico, la especie Somateria spectabilis ha sido separada en dos poblaciones reproductivas de amplia distribucin en Norte Amrica (las del rtico este y oeste). Se conoce poco sobre los niveles de flujo gnico entre estas dos poblaciones. Tambin se desconoce si patrones de comportamiento comunes entre aves acuticas migratorias, como la fidelidad a los sitios de invernada y la formacin de parejas en dichos sitios, han existido por suficiente tiempo como para crear estructura poblacional definida por la filopatra a las reas de invernada en lugar de a las reas de nidificacin. Utilizamos seis loci nucleares de ADN microsatelital y secuencias del gen mitocondrial citocromo b para estimar el grado de diferenciacin gentica espacial entre reas de nidificacin e invernada de S. spectabilis a travs de Norte Amrica y regiones adyacentes. Los estimados de la varianza interpoblacional en la frecuencia de alelos de microsatlites y de haplotipos de ADNmt fueron bajos y no significativos con base en muestras de tres reas de invernada y cuatro de nidificacin. Los resultados de un anlisis de clados anidados, de las distribuciones "mismatch" y de anlisis basados en coalescencia sugieren la existencia de crecimiento poblacional histrico y flujo gnico, eventos que colectivamente podran haber homogeneizado las frecuencias gnicas. La presencia de varios haplotipos exclusivos entre aves que invernan cerca de Groenlandia sugiere que el flujo gnico podra ser ahora ms limitado entre el rtico oeste y este, lo que es consistente con los datos de anillamiento. 
10.1525/cond.2012.120034|Natal dispersal is an important, yet often poorly studied, process in population ecology. Natal dispersal can affect population structure and individual fitness. We examined correlates of natal dispersal distances of a population of Swainson's Hawk (
1370752| Greater (Tympanuchus cupido) and Lesser (T. pallidicinctus) Prairie-Chicken are thought to be historically and presently allopatric. We documented an area of approximately 250 000 ha in western Kansas characterized by leks with displaying males of both species. Display booms unlike typical Greater or Lesser Prairie-Chickens were heard and recorded at nine mixed leks. Spectrograms of these vocalizations contained elements of Greater and Lesser Prairie-Chicken booms, and comparisons suggested intermediate similarity. Males giving these booms had additional novel characters as well as novel combinations of Greater and Lesser Prairie-Chicken characters, and might represent the first case of hybridization in the wild. /// Aunque se ha pensado que Tympanuchus cupido y T. pallidicinctus son especies histrica y actualmente aloptricas, documentamos un rea de aproximadamente 250 000 ha en el oeste de Kansas que est caracterizada por asambleas de cortejo integradas por machos de ambas especies. Escuchamos y grabamos vocalizaciones de despliegue diferentes de las tpicas de T. cupido y T. pallidicinctus en nueve asambleas de cortejo mixtas. Los espectrogramas de dichas vocalizaciones contenan elementos de los cantos de T. cupido y T. pallidicinctus y presentaban similitud intermedia. Los machos que emitieron esas vocalizaciones presentaban caracteres adicionales novedosos, as como nuevas combinaciones de caracteres de T. cupido y T. pallidicinctus. ste podra representar el primer caso de hibridacin de estas dos especies en condiciones naturales. 
10.2307/1368812|A transmitter crystal and battery were covered with epoxy and wired to a size 2 USFWS aluminum leg band. The male partners of 10 Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) pairs were captured during late incubation at a Port Colborne, Ontario tern colony and the transmitter units fixed to their legs. The total package weighed an average 1.08 g more than the usual mass of a single band. The brood attendance patterns and feeding frequency rates of transmittered-males and of their female partners were contrasted over a 20-day period with those of non-transmittered males and their partners. No differences were found. Advantages of the attachment procedure are speed of attachment, light mass, rapid loss of antennae following battery exhaustion, and lack of adverse effect on parental behavior.
90008535|Prey species minimize the risk of predation directly by avoiding predators and indirectly by avoiding risky habitat. Habitat loss and fragmentation have been prevalent in Greater Sage-Grouse (
10.2307/1369216| During a study of Dark-rumped Petrel (Pterodroma phaeopygia) breeding biology in the Galpagos Islands, we collected over 80 samples of food regurgitated by petrel chicks. We identified the prey to the lowest possible taxonomic level and determined the relative importance of each food class in the petrel's diet. We also monitored the daily changes in mass of 14 chicks on Floreana Island to determine the quantity of food delivered as well as the food delivery rate. Dark-rumped Petrel hatchlings were fed a mixture of stomach oils, semi-digested fish, cephalopods and crustaceans. On the basis of mass composition, about 46% of the diet was cephalopods, about 37% fish, and about 17% crustaceans. Cephalopods, of at least 16 families, occurred with the greatest regularity. Fish were present in the samples more frequently than Crustacea: seven and five families, respectively. Feeding rates were highest in the month after hatching and lowest before fledging. Estimated food loads averaged 68 g and did not increase in size over the growth period. Dark-rumped Petrels fed on mainly mesopelagic prey, taken presumably at night, while ranging up to 2,000 km from the colonies, largely southwards. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090197|Delaware Bay is an important spring stopover site for the Western Atlantic Red Knot (
1370740| PCR amplification of a sex-linked gene was used to assay the sex ratio of nestling House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) from five consecutive breeding seasons. We tested several predictions from sex ratio theory, including that at the population level, sparrows should produce a 1:1 sex ratio. Of 1162 nestlings, 53% were male, which is not significantly different from 50%. We did find a significant skew toward males in two of the five years, and significant heterogeneity in sex ratio among seasons. There was no evidence that brood sex ratios were skewed from a binomial distribution, despite a modest excess of all male broods. We found that male nestlings weighed significantly more (0.5 g) than their female siblings. We tested the possibility that females produce males when conditions are good. Sex ratio was not associated with nest attempt, despite some evidence that conditions varied seasonally. Clutch size was negatively associated with date of first egg, but neither nestling weight nor sex ratio showed any correlation with date. We also tested an array of female characteristics; sex ratio was not associated with female body size, condition, or age. Females that hatched a larger proportion of eggs produced more males, a consistent pattern in all five seasons. However, the female's mate's characteristics (size, condition, age, or size of throat patch) did not influence sex ratio. These data contribute to a growing number of studies that provide an inconsistent picture of sex ratio variation in birds. /// Un gen ligado al sexo, amplificado por PCR, fue usado para examinar la proporcin de sexos de pichones de Passer domesticus provenientes de cinco temporadas de apareamiento consecutivas. Se probaron varias predicciones de la teora de proporcin de sexos, incluyendo que a nivel poblacional, los gorriones deberan producir una proporcin de sexos 1:1. De 1162 pichones, 53% fueron machos, lo cual no difiere significativamente de 50%. Se encontr un sesgo significativo hacia machos en dos de los cinco aos y una heterogeneidad significativa en la proporcin de sexos entre estaciones. No hubo evidencia de que la proporcin de sexos de la camada se desviara de una distribucin binomial, a pesar de un moderado exceso de cras macho. Se encontr que los pichones machos pesaron significativamente ms (0.5 g) que sus hermanas. Se examin la posibilidad de que las hembras producen machos cuando las condiciones son benignas. La proporcin de sexos no estuvo asociado con el momento de anidacin dentro de la temporada, a pesar de que algunas evidencias sugieren que las condiciones variaron estacionalmente. El tamao de la camada estuvo negativamente asociado con la fecha de puesta del primer huevo, pero ni el peso del pichn ni la proporcin de sexos mostr correlacin con dicha fecha. Se examinaron adems un serie de caractersticas de la hembra; la proporcin de sexos no estuvo asociada con el tamao del cuerpo, la condicin o la edad de la hembra. Las hembras que empollaron una mayor cantidad de huevos produjeron ms machos, un patrn consistente en las cinco temporadas. Las caractersticas de las parejas de las hembras (tamao, condicin o tamao de la mancha del cuello) no influyeron la proporcin de sexos. Estos datos contribuyen al creciente nmero de estudios que presentan una descripcin contradictoria de la variacin de la proporcin de sexos en aves. 
10.2307/1367129|Zebra Finches (Poephila guttata) of arid Australia can breed continuously under favorable conditions. During droughts, however, breeding ceases but is said to begin again immediately after rain. We found that testis size in breeding birds did not change during, or between, reproductive cycles. Luteinizing hormone (irLH) levels in plasma, however, were significantly higher in males during early incubation (1.25 ng/ml), and in females during courtship (0.89 ng/ml), than during other parts of the reproductive cycle. Plasma levels of the sex steroids were highest (1.06 ng/ml for androgen in males, 0.32 ng/ml for estrogens in females) at the same time that irLH levels were highest. Wild-caught Zebra Finches had, at capture, testes similar in size to those of aviary-breeding Zebra Finches, but after three weeks of dehydration (1 ml water/bird/week), testis size was significantly smaller and hematocrit was significantly higher: 54% vs. 50% for birds given unlimited access to water. When dehydrated birds were given unlimited access to water, testes grew significantly. Access to green grass or exposure to high relative humidity (85%) augmented the effects of the water on testis size. Spermatogenic activity in some dehydrated birds was high despite small gonad size; however, interstitial tissue was poorly developed, and plasma levels of sex steroids and irLH were low. We suggest that Zebra Finches normally maintain gonadal tissue in a functioning state unless severely dehydrated. Relief from dehydration is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for the full expression of reproduction.
3247791| We collected prey remains from 25 Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus) territories across Arizona from 1977 to 1988 yielding 58 eyrie-years of data. Along with 793 individual birds (107 species and six additional genera), we found seven mammals and nine insects. In addition, two nestling peregrines were consumed. We found a larger dependence upon White-throated Swifts (Aeronautes saxatalis) and birds on migration in northern Arizona, while in southeastern and central Arizona average prey mass was greater and columbiforms formed the largest dietary component. In northern, central, and southeastern Arizona, 74, 66, and 56 avian prey taxa, respectively, were recorded. We used capture-recapture modeling to estimate totals of 111  9.5, 113  10.5, and 86  7.9 (SE) avian taxa taken in these same three areas. These values are counterintuitive inasmuch as the southeast has the richest avifauna. For the entire study area, 156  9.3 avian taxa were estimated to be taken by peregrines. /// Desde 1977 a 1988 colectamos restos de presas en 58 nidos de Falco peregrinus a travs de Arizona. Conjuntamente con 793 aves individuales (107 especies y seis gneros adicionales), encontramos siete mamferos y nueve insectos. Adems, fueron consumidos dos pichones de Falco peregrinus. En la zona norte encontramos una mayor dependencia sobre Aeronautes saxatalis y aves en migracin, mientras que en las zonas sureste y central la masa promedio de presa fue ms grande y los columbiformes constituyeron el componente principal de la dieta de Falco peregrinus. En las zonas norte, central y sureste se registraron 74, 66 y 56 taxa de aves presa, respectivamente. Para estimar el nmero total de taxa capturados por Falco peregrinus usamos un modelo de captura-recaptura. Los valores calculados fueron 111  9.5, 113  10.5 y 86  7.9 (EE) taxa para las zonas norte, central y sureste, respectivamente. Estos valores no reflejan los que esperbamos, ya que la zona sureste tuvo una avifauna ms rica. Se estim que 156  9.3 taxa fueron capturados por Falco peregrinus en la totalidad del rea de estudio. 
10.1525/cond.2013.110207|We present a prototype monitoring strategy for estimating the density and number of occupied burrows of burrow-nesting seabirds. We use data and management questions from Washington State as an example that can be applied to burrow-nesting seabirds at single- or multi-island scales. We also demonstrate how habitat assessments can be conducted concurrently. Specifically, we compared the density and occupancy of burrows of the Rhinoceros Auklet (
10.2307/1370442|We evaluated the effects of three translocation trials on Common Amakihi (Hemignathus virens) and Japanese White-eyes (Zosterops japonicus). Trial 1 involved capturing birds, transporting them on rough roads for 4 hr followed by holding in an aviary for 48 hr without overnight thermal support prior to release. Trial 2 involved capture, then holding in an aviary for 48 hr with overnight thermal support followed by transport for 4 hr prior to release. Trial 3 and 1 were identical except that overnight thermal support was provided during trial 3. We monitored survival, food consumption, weight change, and fecal production during captivity as well as changes in hematocrit, estimated total solids, heterophil to lymphocyte ratios, plasma uric acid, and creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) at capture and release. Survival was significantly lower for Amakihi during trial 1 (no thermal support). Birds that died lost significantly more weight than those that survived. Regardless of trial, birds responded to translocation by a combination of weight loss, anemia, hypoproteinemia, and elevated heterophil to lymphocyte ratio, uric acid, and CPK levels. The first 24 hr of captivity posed the greatest risk to birds regardless of whether transport or holding occurred first. Food consumption, fecal production, and weight all decreased at night, and overnight thermal support during holding was critical if ambient temperatures dipped to freezing. We recommend that if small passerines are to be held for > 12 hr, they be monitored individually for weight loss, food consumption, and fecal production.
4122503| Timing of breeding activities by birds has important fitness consequences, as deciding when to nest can affect nest success. For three breeding seasons, we provided supplemental food to Wrentits (Chamaea fasciata) inhabiting semiarid shrublands. We tested the effects of food supplementation on timing of initial egg laying, number of nests attempted, timing of fledging, and length of the breeding season. We also evaluated whether Wrentits timed nest initiation to avoid periods of greatest predation risk. Our study was conducted during a period of high interannual variation in precipitation. Supplemental food did not advance laying date in Wrentits. During a drought, even Wrentits given supplemental food delayed nesting, initiated fewer nesting attempts, fledged young earlier, and reduced the length of the breeding season. In a year of average rainfall, supplemental food allowed pairs to continue renesting late into the summer, after repeated nest losses from predation. Wrentits did not time nesting to avoid periods of greatest predation risk. In timing initial breeding, Wrentits appeared to be responding to climatic conditions and to indirect cues that predicted environmental conditions later in the breeding season rather than to food availability at the time of egg laying. /// La temporalidad de las actividades reproductivas de las aves tiene importantes consecuencias para la adecuacin biolgica, ya que la decisin de cuando anidar puede afectar el xito de nidificacin. Durante tres temporadas reproductivas provemos con alimento suplementario a individuos de Chamaea fasciata que habitan reas arbustivas semiridas. Evaluamos los efectos del alimento suplementario en la temporalidad del inicio de la puesta de huevos, en el nmero de intentos de anidacin, en el tiempo de emplumamiento y en el tiempo de duracin de la temporada reproductiva. Tambin evaluamos si C. fasciata ajusta el tiempo de nidificacin para evitar periodos de alta depredacin. Nuestro estudio fue conducido durante un periodo de alta variacin interanual en la precipitacin. El alimento suplementario no adelant las fechas de puesta en C. fasciata. Durante una sequa, incluso los individuos de C. fasciata que recibieron alimento suplementario retrasaron sus tiempos de puesta, iniciaron menos intentos de nidificacin, los polluelos salieron del nido ms temprano y se acort la temporada reproductiva. En un ao con precipitacin promedio, el alimento suplementario permiti a las parejas continuar re-anidando ms tarde durante el verano, despus de repetidas prdidas de nidos a causa de la depredacin. C. fasciata no ajust temporalmente la nidificacin para evitar periodos de alto riesgo de depredacin. En cuanto al ajuste temporal del inicio del periodo reproductivo, C. fasciata parece responder ms a las condiciones climticas y a las seales indirectas que predicen las condiciones ambientales durante la temporada reproductiva que a la disponibilidad de alimento durante el tiempo de la puesta de huevos. 
10.2307/1370204|We studied the distribution and activities of adult Steller's Eiders (Polysticta stelleri) during winter and spring on a deep-water embayment and a shallow lagoon along the Alaska Peninsula from September 1980 to May 1981. During the remigial molt, eiders were observed on Izembek Lagoon but not on Cold Bay. Following the flightless period, Izembek Lagoon continued to support 63-100% of eiders encountered during surveys. As ice cover on Izembek Lagoon increased, the number of birds decreased on Izembek Lagoon but increased on Cold Bay, suggesting that some eiders disperse to nearshore, deep-water habitats in close proximity to Izembek Lagoon during severe weather. Diurnal activity budgets indicated that the amount of time resting or engaged in aggression and alert activities was similar among locations, seasons, tidal stages, and sexes. In contrast, time spent foraging differed among seasons and locations but did not differ among tidal stages or sexes. Although time spent foraging was similar during winter and spring on Izembek Lagoon, eiders on Cold Bay foraged more during winter compared to spring. Synchronous diving was the dominant foraging strategy.
10.1525/cond.2012.110105|In many birds, egg viability declines the longer that eggs remain unincubated (i.e., incubation delay), possibly because of increased levels of microbial infection. Reuse of nests is common in cavity-nesting species and may also increase exposure of eggs to microbes. Starting incubation before the clutch is complete may help protect early-laid eggs from microbial infection. In this study, we tested the effects of nest cleaning, length of incubation delay, and onset of night incubation on growth of microbes on Wood Duck (
10.2307/1368518|Foraging data on Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) were collected during the early breeding season in eastern Kansas to test the hypothesis that foraging rate and other aspects of foraging behavior vary with weather. Foraging characteristics of five additional kingbird species were also examined to assess Fitzpatrick's (1980) generalization that kingbirds (Tyrannus spp.) are aerial hawking specialists. In Eastern Kingbirds, total foraging rate was independent of air temperature, cloud cover, wind speed, and time of day, but the rate of aerial hawking varied directly with air temperature and inversely with cloud cover (both P < 0.05). Effects of the two variables were additive. The percentage of foraging movements that were aerial hawks also increased with temperature and declined with cloud cover, and, hover-gleaning and perch-to-ground sallying were observed mainly during cloudy weather. Sally (i.e., foraging flight) distance correlated directly with perch height and air temperature, and large insects were captured almost exclusively in long upward or horizontal flights. I interpret these data to indicate that foraging behavior and the capture of large, flying insects depends on weather because of how it affects the activity of insect prey. Foraging data on kingbirds support Fitzpatrick's generalization, but the relative use of aerial hawking varies considerably among species. Resident Tropical Kingbirds (T. melancholicus) are the most specialized foragers, whereas the migrant and widely distributed Eastern Kingbird appears to be the most generalized. Certain habitats also appear to favor the use of particular foraging methods (e.g., outward striking in grasslands, and perch-to-ground sallying in drier, open habitats).
10.2307/1369471| We detail 46 sightings of Golden-cheeked Warbler in the Highlands of Northern Chiapas, representing wintering birds as well as spring and fall migrants. In winter, the species was approximately 1% as abundant as Townsend's Warbler, the most numerous warbler. Among warblers detected, only Pink-headed Warbler was less numerous than Golden-cheeked Warbler. Sightings of male Golden-cheeked Warblers outnumbered those of females by a factor of 2.4. Golden-cheeked Warblers used a variety of habitats in the study area, especially pine-oak and pine forests. They foraged by gleaning in the upper half of the trees in which they were found, and they occurred almost exclusively in mixed-species flocks. Aggressive interactions involving Golden-cheeked Warblers were infrequent. /// Se documentan 46 observaciones de Dendroica chrysoparia en las tierras altas del Norte del Estado de Chiapas, tanto de aves invernantes como de migrantes de otoo y primavera. Durante el invierno, la especie fue aproximadamente 1% tan abundante como D. townsendi, el parlino ms numeroso. Entre los parlinos detectados incluyendo invernantes y residentes, slo Ergaticus versicolor fue menos abundante que D. chrysoparia. Las observaciones de los machos de D. chrysoparia sobrepasaron a las de las hembras por un factor de 2.4. Esta especie utiliza una amplia variedad de hbitats en el rea de estudio, especialmente los bosques de pino-encino y los de pino. Forrajean colectando entre el follaje en la mitad superior de los rboles donde se encuentran, y ocurren principalmente en parvadas de especies mixtas. Las interacciones agresivas que involucran a D. chrysoparia fueron muy poco frecuentes. 
10.2307/3247717| The distributions of King and Blue-eyed Shags (Phalacrocorax albiventer and P. atriceps) were reevaluated, incorporating new data. The differential distributions of the phenotypes do not correlate significantly with austral summer water temperatures. In areas where the forms occur together, hybridization is frequent and plumage-based disassortative mating occurs. At localities of overlap, King and Blue-eyed Shags are virtually identical in skeletal size and shape. Heterozygosity is very similar for both forms over all populations and at Puerto Deseado, but not for the Monte Len and Ushuaia populations. Genetic distances between the two forms are very low. King and Blue-eyed Shags should be considered conspecific color morphs of a Single widespread species, Phalacrocorax atriceps. 
10.2307/1370226|Using observations on 28 individually marked male Harlequin Ducks from mid-June until late November, we describe plumage changes which occur as individuals proceed from the alternate plumage through basic to the return of the new alternate plumage. We also describe the timing of these events, at the individual and population level. Conspicuous white tertial feathers which become visible early in the period of the basic plumage present a challenge to existing theories to explain the function of the drab basic plumage. We hypothesize that these feathers act as a badge of quality and are used as a sexual signal to other birds. Intra-sexual competition among males to assess the quality of rival males prior to subsequent pair formation is a proposed function of this feather badge.
10.1525/cond.2011.100059|The capuchinos, a subset of the genus
10.2307/1367479|In the autumn of 1974 the migration pattern in El Salvador had several unusual features, too many to have been merely coincidental: 1) delayed arrival of certain early migrants whose appearance overlapped with that of later migrants; 2) unprecedented numbers of a few species; 3) the appearance of several rarely seen or previously unreported species; 4) extension of winter ranges of a few species which was maintained for several years after. These events were closely associated with Hurricane Fifi (17-20 September) and to a lesser extent with Hurricane Carmen (1-6 September). I attribute the unusual features of the 1974 migration to Hurricane Fifi (possibly augmented by Carmen) after comparison of routes and schedules of early migrants with the route, dates, wind directions, and velocities of Fifi. I suggest that other hurricanes have affected and will affect migration through Middle America but that serious disruptions are probably rare and unpredictable.
10.1525/cond.2013.110213|The population of Tundra Swans (
3247769| We monitored radio-tagged Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) to determine whether nocturnal feeding was part of their foraging strategy during winter in south-central Alaska. Despite attributes of our study site (low ambient temperatures, harsh weather, short day length) and study species (small body size, high daytime foraging rates) that would be expected to favor nocturnal foraging, we found no evidence of nocturnal dive-feeding. Signals from eight radio-tagged Harlequin Ducks never exhibited signal loss due to diving during a total of 780 minutes of nocturnal monitoring. In contrast, the same eight birds exhibited signal loss during 62  7% (SE) of 5-minute diurnal monitoring periods (total of 365 minutes of monitoring). Our results suggest that Harlequin Ducks in south-central Alaska face a stringent time constraint on daytime foraging during midwinter. Harlequin Ducks wintering at high latitudes, therefore, may be particularly sensitive to factors that increase foraging requirements or decrease foraging efficiency. /// En este estudio monitoreamos patos Histrionicus histrionicus marcados con radio transmisores para determinar si la alimentacin nocturna es parte de su estrategia de forrajeo durante el invierno en el sur-centro de Alaska. A pesar de que se esperara que el forrajeo nocturno fuera favorecido por las caractersticas de nuestro sitio de estudio (temperaturas ambientales bajas, clima inclemente, das de corta duracin) y de la especie estudiada (tamao corporal pequeo, altas tasas de forrajeo durante el da), no encontramos evidencia de alimentacin mediante buceo en la noche. Las seales emitidas por los transmisores acoplados a ocho individuos nunca se redujeron como consecuencia de actividades de buceo durante un total de 780 minutos de monitoreo nocturno. En contraste, los mismos ocho individuos evidenciaron prdidas de la seal durante el 62%  7% (EE) de los perodos de monitoreo diurnos de cinco minutos de duracin (en total se monitorearon 365 minutos). Nuestros resultados sugieren que los patos H. histrionicus estn sujetos a una fuerte limitante de tiempo en cuanto al forrajeo diurno durante el invierno medio en el sur-centro de Alaska. Por lo tanto, los individuos que pasan el invierno en latitudes altas podran ser particularmente sensibles a factores que incrementen los requerimientos de forrajeo o que disminuyan la eficiencia de forrajeo. 
1370034| We used several methods to study the chronology and synchrony of breeding events of the Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) population at Desolation Sound, British Columbia, from 1996 to 1998. The timing of breeding events varied among years; on average the breeding season lasted from 21 April to 5 September. We assessed the biases of each method used by comparing the results to the estimate of the integrated breeding chronology. Counts of hatch-year birds at sea were biased toward earlier breeders, missing an estimated 24% of the fledglings. Two other methods, physiological analysis of the yolk precursor vitellogenin from blood samples and monitoring by radio-telemetry could produce a complete distribution of breeding events if sampling were done throughout laying. Observations in the forest, date of first observation of a fledgling at sea during the breeding season, and fish-holding behavior produced insufficient data to be used as sole indicators of breeding chronology of this species. In general, breeding synchrony in alcids, assessed using data from a literature review, was unrelated to feeding habits but increased with latitude (41% of the variation was explained by latitude). Marbled Murrelets, however, bred less synchronously than predicted for an alcid at this latitude (50N). /// Utilizamos varios mtodos para investigar la cronologa reproductiva de la poblacin de Brachyramphus marmoratus en la Caleta Desolacin de la Columbia Britnica desde 1996 a 1998. Encontramos variaciones temporales en la poca reproductiva entre aos. En promedio, la estacin reproductiva se extendi del 21 de abril al 5 de septiembre. Evaluamos el sesgo de los mtodos utilizados comparando los resultados individuales con los resultados de la cronologa obtenida al integrar todos los mtodos. Los conteos de juveniles en el mar estuvieron sesgados hacia aquellas aves que anidan temprano, no detectando aproximadamente 24% de los juveniles producidos en la estacin reproductiva. Los otros dos mtodos, anlisis fisiolgico de muestras de sangre para detectar el precursor de vitelogenina en la yema y monitoreo por telemetra, podran producir una distribucin completa de las etapas reproductivas siempre que el muestreo se lleve a cabo a lo largo de todo el perodo de puesta. Las observaciones directas en los sitios de anidacin, la fecha de la primera observacin de juveniles en el mar y las observaciones de aves con pescado en el pico produjeron datos insuficientes para ser considerados indicadores nicos de la cronologa reproductiva para esta especie. Con base en una revisin bibliogrfica se investig la sincrona reproductiva en lcidos, encontrndose que sta no est relacionada con hbitos alimenticios pero que aumenta con la latitud (41% de la variacin fue explicada por cambios latitudinales). Sin embargo, B. marmoratus se reprodujo menos sincrnico que lo predicho para un lcido a esta latitud (50N). 
10.2307/1367401|Time-activity budgets were determined for breeding male and female American Coots (Fulica americana) of three age-classes. Time apportioned to foraging and courtship decreased with age, while time spent in defending territory and feeding young increased with age. We hypothesize that differences in time spent foraging, defending the territory and feeding young are the result of older coots occupying better-quality territories. Such a hypothesis is consistent with the generally assumed wide variability in spatial distribution of energy resources in marsh ecosystems. Such variability seems to be a primary proximate and ultimate factor affecting the reproductive success of American Coots.
10.2307/1369418| Aspects of chick-provisioning in Wilson's Storm-Petrel were measured at Palmer Station, Antarctica. Chicks received meals averaging 9.2 g (21% of adult body mass) with a mean frequency of 1.1 feeds/chick day. Feeding frequency decreased as chicks grew, but meal mass remained relatively constant throughout the fledging period. Free lipids accounted for an average of 24% of the mass and over 60% of the energy in a meal. The energy density of the meals averaged 16.1 kJ/g, nearly triple that of whole prey. The estimated rates at which gross and metabolizable energy were delivered to the chick averaged 163 and 147 kJ/days, respectively, over the 60 day fledging period. Low nest temperatures resulted in high energy requirements by the chicks. Rates of respiratory energy metabolism averaged 133 kJ/day over the fledging period and reached peak levels of 160 kJ/day. Rates of energy deposition in tissues averaged only 18.4 kJ/day with a peak rate of 57 kJ/day. Thus, total metabolizable energy requirements of the chick averaged 151 kJ/day, which is within 3% of estimated metabolizable energy intake. Wilson's Storm-Petrel chicks have energy requirements nearly double those of Leach's Storm-Petrel chicks which grow in a more temperate climate. Wilson's Storm-Petrel adults appear to meet demands of their chicks with a high frequency of meal delivery and high energy density of meals compared to those of Leach's Storm-Petrel. A comparison of the rates of energy utilization by foraging adults of the two species suggests that the high energy demands of the Wilson's Storm-Petrel chicks have selected for a foraging strategy in adult Wilson's Storm-Petrels that is expensive in terms of energy and time. Low air temperatures, a short summer season, and the presence of diurnal predators on the breeding grounds are among the factors which have shaped the chick-provisioning strategy of this species. The data suggest that Wilson's Storm-Petrels could not breed successfully in the Antarctic without the ability to produce stomach oils. 
1370027| Among cavity-nesting birds, a distinction can be made between excavators, which dig their own cavities, and cavity-adopters, which nest in pre-existing cavities. Historically, these two types of species have been grouped together as "cavity-nesters," but it has become clear that the two nesting habits are associated with very different suites of life-history characters. This paper tests the hypothesis that cavity-adopters differ from excavators and other nest-building species in their propensity to evolve colonial breeding. Because of their dependence on pre-existing cavities, cavity-adopters presumably have less control than excavators over the location of their nests, and this could limit their ability to nest near conspecifics. A literature survey of the nesting behavior of 842 species in 17 bird families shows that coloniality almost never occurs in species that are obligate cavity-adopters. A phylogeny-based comparative analysis of nesting behavior in the Anseriformes indicates that in this group, colonial breeding has evolved less frequently in lineages of cavity-adopters than would be expected by chance. Together, this evidence supports the hypothesis that colonial breeding systems are unlikely to evolve in lineages of cavity-adopters. /// Las aves que nidifican en cavidades pueden dividirse en dos grupos: las especies excavadoras, que construyen sus propias cavidades, y las no-excavadoras, que nidifican en cavidades pre-existentes. Histricamente, estos dos tipos de especies han sido agrupadas colectivamente como aves que anidan en cavidades, pero estudios recientes demuestran que los dos tipos de nidificacin estn asociados con diferentes caracteres de sus historias de vida. En este estudio se pone a prueba la hiptesis que especies no-excavadoras difieren de las excavadoras y de otras especies que construyen nidos en cuanto a su propensin a evolucionar hbitos de reproduccin colonial. Debido a que dependen de cavidades pre-existentes, las especies no-excavadoras presumiblemente tienen menos control que las excavadoras sobre la ubicacin de sus nidos, y esto podra limitar su habilidad para nidificar cerca de otros miembros de su especie. Una revisin bibliogrfica sobre el comportamiento de nidificacin de 842 especies pertenecientes a 17 familias demuestra que casi nunca se observa colonialidad en especies que obligatoriamente utilizan cavidades preexistentes. Un anlisis comparativo utilizando una filogenia y datos del comportamiento de nidificacin de miembros del orden Anseriformes indica que la colonialidad ha evolucionado con menor frecuencia de lo esperado al azar en linajes de especies no-excavadoras que utilizan cavidades. En conjunto, estos datos apoyan la hiptesis que los sistemas de nidificacin colonial tienen baja probabilidad de evolucionar en linajes de no-excavadoras que anidan en cavidades. 
1369825| In Canada, Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) are at the northern edge of their range, occurring only in southeastern Alberta and southwestern Saskatchewan. The population in Canada has declined by 66% to 92% over the last 30 years. We used radio-telemetry to follow 20 female Greater Sage-Grouse and monitor productivity in southeastern Alberta, and to assess habitat use at nesting and brood-rearing locations. All females attempted to nest. Mean clutch size (7.8 eggs per nest) was at the high end of the normal range for sage-grouse (typically 6.6-8.2). Nest success (46%) and breeding success (55%) were within the range found for more southerly populations (15% to 86% and 15% to 70%, respectively). Thirty-six percent of unsuccessful females attempted to renest. Fledging success was slightly lower than reported in other studies. Thus, reproductive effort does not appear to be related to the population decline. However, chick survival to 50 days of age (mean = 18%) was only about half of that estimated (35%) for a stable or slightly declining population, suggesting that chick survival may be the most important factor reducing overall reproductive success and contributing to the decline of Greater Sage-Grouse in Canada. /// En Canad, Centrocercus urophasianus est en el extremo norte de su distribucin, encontrndose slo en el sureste de Alberta y el suroeste de Saskatchewan. La poblacin de Canad ha disminuido entre el 66% y 92% durante los ltimos 30 aos. Utilizamos radio-telemetra para seguir a 20 hembras de C. urophasianus y monitorear su productividad en el sureste de Alberta y para evaluar el uso de hbitat en sitios de anidacin y de cra de los pichones. Todas las hembras intentaron anidar. El tamao promedio de la nidada (7.8 huevos por nido) estuvo en el extremo superior del rango normal de C. urophasianus (tpicamente 6.6-8.2). El xito de anidacin (46%) y de reproduccin (55%) estuvieron dentro de los rangos encontrados en poblaciones de ms al sur (15% a 86% y 15% a 70%, respectivamente). El treinta y seis por ciento de las hembras que no tuvieron xito intentaron volver a anidar. El xito en la crianza de polluelos hasta la etapa de volantones fue ligeramente menor que el reportado en otros estudios. Por lo tanto, el esfuerzo reproductivo no parece estar relacionado con el declive poblacional. Sin embargo, la supervivencia de los polluelos hasta 50 das de edad o ms (promedio = 18%) fue slo aproximadamente la mitad de lo que se ha estimado para una poblacin estable o en ligero declive (35%), lo que sugiere que la supervivencia de los pichones podra ser el factor ms importante reduciendo el xito reproductivo en general y contribuyendo al declive de C. urophasianus en Canad. 
1370574| Fecal glucocorticoid assays provide a potentially useful, noninvasive means to study physiological responses of wildlife to various stressors. The objective of our study was to validate a method for measuring glucocorticoid metabolites in Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) feces. We validated the assay using standard procedures (e.g., parallelism, recovery of exogenous corticosterone) to demonstrate that the assay accurately and precisely measured glucocorticoid metabolites in Mourning Dove fecal extracts. We conducted adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) challenge experiments to validate the assay's ability to determine biologically important changes in fecal glucocorticoids. Fecal glucocorticoid levels increased significantly approximately 2-3 hr after administration of ACTH at 50 IU per kg body mass to wild Mourning Doves held in captivity. In contrast, fecal glucocorticoid metabolites did not increase in control birds, birds that received saline injections, or a lower dose of ACTH (1 IU per kg body mass). Variation in overall fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels may have been influenced by season and the length of time birds were held in captivity. Non-invasive fecal glucocorticoid metabolite analyses, in combination with demographic information, may have considerable utility for monitoring the effects of natural and anthropogenic disturbances on Mourning Dove populations. /// Las evaluaciones de glucocorticoides fecales representan un medio no invasor potencialmente til para estudiar las respuestas fisiolgicas de los animales silvestres ante agentes causantes de estrs. El objetivo de nuestro estudio fue validar un mtodo para medir metabolitos glucocorticoides en heces de palomas Zenaida macroura. Validamos el mtodo mediante procedimientos estndar (e.g., paralelismo, recuperacin de corticosterona exgena) para demostrar que ste mide con exactitud y precisin los metabolitos glucocorticoides en extractos fecales de Z. macroura. Realizamos experimentos de desafo con adrenocorticotropina (ACTH) para validar la habilidad que tena el mtodo para determinar cambios biolgicamente importantes en los glucocorticoides fecales. Los niveles de glucocorticoides fecales aumentaron de forma significativa aproximadamente 2-3 hr despus de la administracin de ACTH a 50 IU por kg de peso corporal a palomas silvestres mantenidas en cautiverio. En contraste, los metabolitos glucocorticoides fecales no aumentaron en aves control, ni en aves que recibieron inyecciones salinas o una menor dosis de ACTH (1 IU por kg de peso corporal). La variacin en los niveles generales de metabolitos glucocorticoides fecales podra haber sido influenciada por la estacin y la longitud del perodo de tiempo en que las aves fueron mantenidas en cautiverio. Los anlisis no invasores de metabolitos glucocorticoides, en combinacin con informacin demogrfica, podran ser de considerable utilidad para monitorear los efectos de los disturbios naturales y antropognicos sobre las poblaciones de Z. macroura. 
10.2307/1368070|In a sample of 1,609 marked nests of five species of Ciconiiformes in 21 colonial nesting aggregations in the Everglades, evidence of abandonment without destruction of nest contents accounted for 31.3% of failures. In 66.9% of the failures, evidence at the nest suggested either predation resulting in nest failure or postabandonment scavenging of nest contents. In a sample of 106 nests isolated by a nonrepelling tracking medium, we found predation by snakes to account for 23% of nest failures; mammals accounted for an additional 20%. Failures due to these two categories accounted for 12% of the treated nests; abandonments may have been considerably underrepresented in this sample of nests. Mammalian predators rarely visited widely distributed baited tracking stations in the marsh, and we hypothesize that even 5-10 cm of water can substantially restrict travel by raccoons, foxes, and rats. Visitation by mammals to colonies occurred only when the water surrounding them receded, and was not related to the presence of alligators or distance from permanently dry land. We found little evidence of avian predation on wading bird nests, though birds readily scavenged abandoned nest contents. We discuss several attributes of the Everglades marshes which may limit access of predators to nesting colonies.
10.1525/cond.2010.080093|We investigated the distinctiveness of males' song and the relationship between song variables and females' mate choice in the Golden-winged Warbler (
10.2307/1369990| Geographic range and numbers of Buff-breasted Flycatchers (Empidonax fulvifrons) have decreased in Arizona in this century. We conducted surveys to locate additional populations, and studied habitat use in relation to availability, and reproductive success. Results suggested that some small populations have disappeared but that others have increased. We estimated reproductive success using an index based on adults' behavior. We found 67 Buff-breasted Flycatcher nests constructed by 44 pairs. Distance to opening was positively correlated with reproductive success rank. We compared used to available areas and nest sites to used areas and found that Buff-breasted Flycatchers inhabited areas dominated by pines, with a sparse oak understory. We found significant associations between Buff-breasted Flycatcher presence and vegetation type, structural stage, canopy cover, and forest patch width. We developed a habitat model to help manage this rare species. We recommend continued monitoring of Buff-breasted Flycatcher populations and creation of open pine forest with an open understory of oak. Fire may facilitate development of potential habitat. /// El extensin geogrpico y los numeros del Buff-breasted Flycatcher (Empidonax fulvifrons) se han dismuniudaran en Arizona. Nosotros conducimos medicines agrimensuras a situar poblacines adicionales y estudiamos uso de hbitato en relacin de desponibilidad y xito reprodoctivo. Resultas indican que algunas poblaciones pequeos se han desaparecieron, pero otros poblacines pequeos se han aumentado. Nosotros estimamamos xito reprodoctivo usando un ndice basado in comportamiento de los adultos. Nosotros encontramos 67 nidos de Buff-breasted Flycatcher, construidos por 44 pares. Distancia a abertura era positivamente correlado con orden de xito reprodoctivo. Nosotros usamos regreccon logistico para comparar reas usadas a reas obtenibles y nido partido a reas usadas. Usadas comparadas a obtenibles indican que el Buff-breasted Flycatchers usan areas dominados con pinos con meliza esparacido debajo de robles. Nosostros encontramos asociacones significativos entre la presencia de Buff-breasted Flycatcher en typo de vegetacion, estructural tablado, alburgue de dosel, y bosque de pedazo ancho. Nosotros desarollamos un modelo del habitato para ayudar a manguar este especie raro. Nosotros recomendamos continuacin a estudiar poblaciones del Buff-breasted Flycatcher y creacin de abierto bosque de pino con abierto malizo de roble. Fuego puede facilitar desarollo de habitato potencial. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090136|The post-fledging period represents a time of considerable energetic constraint and selection pressure for juvenile songbirds. Despite its potential importance for survival, this period remains one of the least studied stages of the annual cycle. Using radio telemetry and taking advantage of unique topographical characteristics at three spatially separated study sites, we assessed four hypotheses regarding the function of broad-scale, landscape-level movements for juveniles: (1) commencement of migration, (2) habitat optimization, (3) selection of a breeding territory, and (4) formation of a homing target. For the Blackpoll Warbler (
10.1525/cond.2012.110095|Recent research has shown repeatable individual variability in temperament traits. We tested the hypotheses that individual Bobolinks (
10.2307/1369531|We studied patterns of habitat use at the levels of general habitats (islands and substrates), feeding territories, and nest sites for two species of oystercatchers nesting sympatrically at the Furneaux Islands, Australia. Sooty Oystercatchers (Haematopus fuliginosus) nested only on small islands while Pied Oystercatchers (H. longirostris) nested on Flinders Island, a large island as well as small islands. Sooty Oystercatchers nested more commonly at rocky shores while Pied Oystercatchers nested more commonly at sandy shores. This was in part related to their selection of islands since small islands were rockier than Flinders Island and to their selection of foraging habitats relative to nesting areas. Pied Oystercatchers only placed nests on beaches where intertidal mudflats were available for foraging territories; these beaches were generally sandy. Sooty Oystercatchers used either muddy and rocky substrates (the primary available substrates) for foraging and their choice of feeding territories played little role in their selection of nesting substrates. At the light colored beaches of the Furneaux Islands, Sooty Oystercatchers (uniformly black) placed eggs in low visibility nest sites next to and under vegetation, while Pied Oystercatchers, with their countershaded color pattern, chose higher visibility nest sites on open beach. We suggest that at this study site Sooty Oystercatchers were less cryptic than Pied Oystercatchers and compensated by choosing vegetative characteristics at nest sites that hid the presence of their nests from diurnal, visually hunting predators. Gulls were the most likely predators to influence choice of vegetative characteristics at nest sites.
10.1525/cond.2013.120090|I describe primary replacement in molt-migrant Painted Buntings (
1370742| Western Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus inornatus) were banded (n = 146 breeding adults and chicks) and radio-marked (n = 68 adults) at three western Great Basin wetland complexes to determine inter- and intraseasonal space use and movement patterns (primarily in 1998 and 1999). Birds were then tracked to overwintering sites where migratory connectivity and local movements were documented. Willets arrived synchronously at breeding sites during mid-April and spent less than 12 weeks in the Great Basin. There were no movements to other sites in the Great Basin during the breeding or postbreeding season. However, most breeding birds moved locally on a daily basis from upland nest sites to wetland foraging sites. The mean distance breeding birds were detected from nests did not differ between sexes or between members of a pair, although these distances were greater among postbreeding than breeding birds. Home-range estimates did not differ significantly between paired males and females during breeding or postbreeding. However, female home ranges were larger following breeding than during breeding. Shortly after chicks fledged, adult Willets left the Great Basin for locations primarily at coastal and estuarine sites in the San Francisco Bay area. Limited data revealed little among-site movements once Willets arrived at the coast, and birds appeared to be site faithful in subsequent winters. Winter sites of western Great Basin Willets differed from those used by birds from other areas in the subspecies' range, suggesting another subspecies or distinct population segment may exist. This study illustrates the importance of understanding movements and space use throughout the annual cycle in conservation planning. /// Un total de 146 individuos reproductivos y polluelos de Catoptrophorus semipalmatus inornatus fueron anillados y 68 marcados con radio transmisores en tres complejos de humedales del Great Basin occidental para determinar patrones inter- e intraestacionales en el uso del espacio y los movimientos, principalmente en 1998 y 1999. Las aves fueron seguidas mediante radio telemetra hasta sus reas de invernada, donde se documentaron la conectividad migratoria y los movimientos locales. Las aves arribaron sincrnicamente a sus sitios reproductivos a mediados de abril, donde permanecieron menos de 12 semanas. No hubo movimientos hacia otros sitios del Great Basin durante la estacin reproductiva o post-reproductiva. Sin embargo, muchas aves se movieron a diario localmente desde sitios de anidacin en zonas altas hasta sitios de forrajeo en humedales. La distancia media entre las aves y sus nidos no difiri entre sexos ni entre miembros de una pareja, aunque estas distancias fueron mayores entre aves post-reproductivas que entre aves que estaban reproducindose. Los rangos de hogar no difirieron significativamente entre machos y hembras de una misma pareja durante o despus de la reproduccin, pero los de las hembras fueron mayores luego del perodo reproductivo. Poco despus de que los polluelos emplumaron, los adultos abandonaron el Great Basin principalmente hacia sitios costeros o estuarinos de la Baha de San Francisco. Una vez que las aves llegaron a la costa, se movieron poco entre sitios, y los individuos parecieron ser fieles a sus sitios en inviernos subsiguientes. Los sitios de invierno de C. s. inornatus en el Great Basin occidental difirieron de aquellos usados por aves de otras reas del rango de esta subespecie, sugiriendo que otra subespecie o una seccin poblacional distinta podra existir. Este estudio ilustra la importancia de entender los movimientos y el uso del espacio a travs del ciclo anual para establecer planes de conservacin. 
10.2307/1368207|We describe a technique and apparatus for extracting blood samples from birds in the field. We tested the effect of our technique on the health and behavior of captive Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and free-living Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). We found that captive Brown-headed Cowbirds that had been bled did not lose any more weight than birds that had not been bled. Territory loss by male Red-winged Blackbirds was not affected by taking blood samples, nor was annual return rate. Female Red-winged Blackbirds that were bled did not differ significantly in their rate of nest abandonment, nest success, fledging rate or annual return relative to females that were not bled. We conclude that blood sampling is not obviously harmful to wild birds as long as proper precautions are taken. Given the ease of the field technique and the vast potential for information to be gained, field ornithologists should not preclude adding laboratory blood analyses to their research program because of concerns about the technique negatively affecting the birds' health or behavior.
10.2307/1367371|An Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) population nesting in the vicinity of Cascade Reservoir in west-central Idaho was studied for three years. The area supported about 50 nesting pairs, which laid an average of 2.58 eggs and fledged an average of 1.37 young per active nest throughout the study. These productivity estimates suggest a healthy, increasing population. Most nests were atop snags (66%) and on private land (70%). Ospreys nesting on artificial sites and those nesting more than 1,500 m from human disturbances produced more offspring. Fish in the 11-30 cm range constituted the bulk of the diet (89%) with brown bullheads being the most important prey species (38%). Osprey captures reflected prey availability. Establishment of Cascade Reservoir increased the availability of fish, which, in turn, allowed the Osprey population to increase. Productivity of these hawks appears to be chiefly related to reservoir level and prey availability.
10.1525/cond.2012.120016|Prey selection of migrating raptors has been documented only rarely. Here we used a genetic approach to identify avian prey of Sharp-shinned Hawks (
10.2307/1369103|About 100 adult and 2,000 nestling Thick-billed Murres were banded at Coats Island annually since 1984. Intensive efforts were made in 1990-1993 to estimate the reproductive success of birds of known age and to record the band numbers of as many birds as possible. Adult annual survival, estimated from the numbers of banded birds resighted, was 87% for females and 89% for males. A capture-recapture estimate for the sexes combined gave a mean annual survival of 89%. The youngest age at first breeding was three years, 60% of birds bred at five or younger and nearly 90% at six or younger. Females started to breed about one year earlier than males. Those birds breeding at less than seven years old had a lower apparent survival rate than older breeders. Approximately 50% of chicks that left the colony were resighted again at three years or older. In each year, the mean success of pairs consisting of two experienced breeders, or of one experienced and one unbanded bird was always higher than that of pairs including young birds of relatively less experience. Reproductive success increased with age to at least nine years. The survival of breeding murres from Coats Island, and those from colonies in Greenland, both of which populations are subject to heavy hunting in their wintering area, is generally lower than survival rates of Common Murres populations in Europe and North America, where hunting pressure on breeders is lower. The proportion of birds banded as nestlings that were seen at the colony at three years or older was high compared to Common Murres in Europe. The high survival rate of young birds is apparently sufficient to offset the additional mortality caused by hunting.
10.2307/3247722|The ecophysiology of Neotropical landbird migrants was studied in relation to energetic condition following trans-Gulf migration in 1987, 1988, and 1989. Most birds captured on East Ship Island, a barrier island off the Mississippi coast, had exhausted fat reserves crossing the Gulf of Mexico and were near fat-free mass. Few birds were recaptured after the day of their first capture, suggesting that migrants departed the day of their arrival or that night. Lean migrants occurred more frequently in samples of recaptured migrants, although length of stay was not a clear function of arrival mass nor did change in mass simply increase with stopover length. Most species were characterized by loss of body mass or by rates of change that essentially maintained arrival mass during stopover. Rates of change in mass were positively correlated with energy demand for several species. Fat-depleted birds appeared to compensate for their condition, presumably by increasing their rate of energy acquisition. Estimates of prey abundance did not differ between years, which might explain why stopover length and rate of gain did not vary between years. We conclude that many migrants left ESI because they found few opportunities to satisfy energy demand, while others stayed because of constraints unrelated to their energy balance or because the benefits of rejecting the habitat were outweighed by the cost of finding a more suitable site.
10.2307/1369947|We studied behavior of Cackling Canada Goose (Branta canadensis minima, cacklers) broods between 1992 and 1996 on the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge in western Alaska. An increase in time spent foraging by goslings during our study was weakly correlated with an increase in the size of the local breeding population. Amount of time spent feeding by adults and goslings increased throughout the brood rearing period. Overall, goslings spent more time feeding than either adult females or males, and adult males spent the most time alert. Time alert varied among brood rearing areas and increased with brood size, but there was no variation in time spent alert among years. Increases in feeding or alert behaviors were at a cost to time spent in all other behaviors. We suggest that there is not a simple trade-off between feeding and alert behavior in cacklers, but instead that time spent feeding and alert are optimized against all other behaviors. We suggest that forage quality and availability determines the amount of time spent feeding, whereas the threat of predation or disturbance determines the amount of time spent alert.
10.2307/1369288|Yellow-vented Bulbuls (Pycnonotus xanthopygos) were fed a mixed diet of four fruit species (Rhamnus alaternus, Lonicera etrusca, Rubia tenuifolia, Ephedra aphylla) and diets containing each of these four fruits separately. A mixed-fruit diet proved no more nutritious than a single-fruit diet, and all the birds lost weight at the same rate regardless of diet. Birds fed a mixed-fruit diet assimilated less protein than those fed exclusively on Rubia and Rhamnus fruits, and assimilated more energy than those fed exclusively on Ephedra fruits. The apparent metabolizable energy (AME) in bulbuls fed a mixed diet (0.73) was higher than in those fed on Rubia and Ephedra (0.69 and 0.61, respectively) but lower than in those fed on Rhamnus (0.82). Protein content alone does not explain loss of body mass. However, lack of specific amino acids, or high potassium to sodium ratios, may cause mass loss. In addition, a mixed diet of four fruit species may not prevent the accumulation of secondary compounds to a damaging level resulting in low protein assimilation.
10.2307/1368111|The relationships between habitat quality and population demography of McCown's Longspurs (Calcarius mccownii) were studied on a mixed-grass prairie in southeastern Wyoming. McCown's Longspurs were censused and their breeding territories delineated on four 9-ha plots in 1986 and 1987. Vegetation characteristics and arthropod biomass were quantified on 97 McCown's Longspur territories and on 65 areas unoccupied by McCown's Longspurs. Stepwise regression analysis indicated that vegetation features were generally poor predictors of prey biomass throughout the study area. The harsh climate may erode coupling of the arthropod and vegetation communities. Vegetation structure may therefore provide poor guidance to McCown's Longspurs in their evaluation of food resource availability. Because no differences in total arthropod biomass and only moderate differences in vegetation structure were shown between territorial and nonterritorial areas, most of the habitat may be suitable for nesting by McCown's Longspurs. Nesting success was not related to arthropod productivity and was only moderately related to vegetation structure on the territory. Neither territory size nor population density was related to prey productivity which is consistent with the view that all individuals were able to occupy suitable habitat. Territory size did not differ between years and was not associated with the number of McCown's Longspur territories per study plot, suggesting a lower limit to territory size in an unsaturated habitat with unlimited food resources. No association was demonstrated between territory size and nesting success, and predation was responsible for almost all nest failures. This suggests that predation, rather than food resources, determined nesting productivity.
10.2307/1368520|The size and species composition of bird flocks in a mixed-conifer forest of the western Sierra Nevada was nearly identical over three winters. Golden-crowned Kinglets (Regulus satrapa), Chestnut-backed Chickadees (Parus rufescens), and Red-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta canadensis) had the highest number of individuals/flock. Kinglets and nuthatches were the most frequent flock members, although they occurred in only 28% and 20% of all flocks, respectively. Most species formed monospecific flocks, although they more often occurred in mixed-species flocks. Although flock size was significantly greater in early winter than in middle and late winter, the number of species/flock did not vary temporally. No meaningful correlations between flock composition and weather conditions were evident. Differences in flock composition between this and other studies resulted from the relatively high frequency of nuthatches found in our flocks. In addition, flock composition was apparently influenced greatly by habitat. The anti-predator and foraging efficiency models emphasized in the literature are evaluated, and a framework for a more complete testing of causes of flocking discussed.
10.2307/1368835|Migrant Whimbrels (Numenius phaeopus) and Bristle-thighed Curlews (N. tahitiensis) were recorded during five summers along coastal tundra of the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. From June to September, 1975-1979, 358 flocks totalling 1,265 curlews were observed; an additional 54 flocks were identified by vocalization alone. Among the 359 flocks identified to species, 52% were of Whimbrels, 47% were of Bristle-thighed Curlews, and 1% were of both species. Flocks as large as 48 Whimbrels and 33 Bristle-thighed Curlews were recorded, but 87% of the flocks contained five or fewer birds. During 2 years with early springs a few Whimbrels and Bristle-thighed Curlews were recorded on the delta in early June; these may have been late spring migrants, oversummering nonbreeders, or very early failed breeders. Whimbrel numbers peaked twice each summer, first in middle to late July and again in late August. These peaks probably consisted mainly of late failed breeders and of successful breeders with juveniles, respectively. The patterns of occurrence of Bristle-thighed Curlews were more complex, with up to three peaks in abundance each season, probably consisting of the following populational subclasses: (1) early failed breeders from late June to mid-July, (2) late failed breeders in late July, and (3) successful breeders and juveniles in early August. Most Bristle-thighed Curlews were gone by mid-August and Whimbrels, by early September. For both species the earliest juveniles were seen in late July in flocks with adults. The Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta is conservatively estimated to support several thousands of both Whimbrels and Bristle-thighed Curlews. This area is considered to be particularly important for Bristle-thighed Curlews because it is the primary of only two known areas used during migration between their nesting grounds in Alaska and the first known stop on their wintering grounds in the Hawaiian Island chain, a transoceanic distance of 3,800 km. Whimbrels are more ubiquitous in their distribution and use of habitats, and their migration strategy may provide more flexibility in choice of timing and routes.
1369690| During observations at a breeding colony of Humboldt Penguins (Spheniscus humboldti), we noted five male penguins enter nests occupied by breeding pairs and engage in aggressive interactions with the resident adult. These nest intrusions resulted in egg loss or infanticide, and accounted for 11.1% of breeding failure in the colony. Two intruder males ultimately mated with respective resident females. This behavior had not been observed previously in Humboldt Penguins and we suggest that it may occur when males are unable to obtain mates through advertising at the nest. Intrusion behavior may slow down population recovery in this endangered species. /// Durante observaciones a una colonia de Pinginos de Humboldt, observamos cinco pinginos machos entrar a nidos ya ocupados por parejas reproductivas e interactuar agresivamente con los adultos residentes. Estas intrusiones a los nidos resultaron en la perdida de huevos e infanticidio, y explic 11.1% del fracaso reproductivo de la colonia. Dos machos intrusos formaron pareja con las respectivas hembras residentes. Este comportamiento no haba sido observado antes en el Pingino de Humboldt. Nosotros sugerimos que dicho comportamiento ocurre cuando los machos no logran atraer hembras a sus nidos. Este comportamiento de intrusin podra retardar la recuperacin de esta especie en peligro de extincin. 
10.2307/1369023|We experimentally parasitized 16 nests of the Northern Oriole (Icterus galbula) to determine the method of rejection of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs, i.e., removal by spiking or by breaking the egg into pieces, and whether males remove cowbird eggs. Cowbird eggs were ejected from all 16 nests. We observed egg ejection at 14 of the parasitized nests. At six nests, cowbird eggs were ejected by breakage. Egg breakage did not result in more damage to Northern Oriole eggs than removal by spiking. For every cowbird egg ejected 0.38 Northern Oriole eggs disappeared or were damaged. Males removed the cowbird egg at two nests, females removed the cowbird egg at 11 nests, and at one nest both the male and female participated in the removal of the cowbird egg. At 13 nests, ejection was carried out by the bird that first inspected the nest after experimental parasitism. Damage to Northern Oriole eggs occurred proportionately more often during male ejections, which suggests males are less experienced egg ejecters, but this requires further testing. Because males can eject cowbird eggs the evolution of the rejecter trait may occur at an even faster rate than previously modeled.
10.1525/cond.2010.080113|The Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge was established to protect native Hawaiian forest birds, particularly endangered species. Management for forest restoration on the refuge has consisted mainly of removing feral ungulates, controlling invasive alien plants, and reforesting former pastures. To assess effects of this habitat improvement for forest birds, we estimated density annually by distance sampling and examined population trends for native and alien passerines over the 21 years since the refuge was established. We examined long-term trends and recent short-term trajectories in three study areas: (1) reforested pastureland, (2) heavily grazed open forest that was recovering, and (3) lightly grazed closed forest that was relatively intact. Three species of native birds and two species of alien birds had colonized the reforested pasture and were increasing. In the open forest, densities of all eight native species were either stable or increasing. Long-term trends for alien birds were also generally stable or increasing. Worryingly, however, during the most recent 9 years, in the open forest trajectories of native species were decreasing or inconclusive, but in the reforested pasture they generally increased. The closed forest was surveyed in only the most recent 9 years, and trajectories of native species there were mixed. Overall, long-term population trends in Hakalau are stable or increasing, contrasting with declines in most other areas of Hawai'i over the same period. However, more recent mixed results may indicate emergent problems for this important bird area.
1370120| Evidence from two Cistothorus wrens (C. palustris, C. platensis) has suggested that repertoire size increases with population density and that song imitators are more likely to be site faithful than are song improvisers. We tested these two ideas on a third species, C. meridae, an endemic to the Venezuelan Andes. Of the three Cistothorus wrens, song repertoire sizes of male Mrida Wrens are the smallest, ranging from 18 to 27 song types per male; Mrida Wrens are also most likely to repeat each type several times before switching to a new type. Density of Mrida Wrens was also lowest, from 0.4 to 2.0 territories per 10 ha. These wrens are highly site faithful, with marked microgeographic song variation. Female Mrida Wrens also sing. Overall, data from the Mrida Wren support the ideas that, among Cistothorus wrens, song repertoire sizes increase with population density and site faithfulness promotes song imitation. /// La evidencia proveniente de dos especies del gnero Cistothorus (C. palustris, C. platensis) sugiere que el tamao del repertorio aumenta con la densidad poblacional y que los imitadores de cantos tienen una mayor probabilidad de ser territoriales que los que improvisan. Estas dos ideas fueron probadas en una tercera especie endmica de los Andes venezolanos, C. meridae. El tamao del repertorio del canto de esta especie, con 18 a 27 tipos de canto por macho, es el ms pequeo de estas tres especies. C. meridae tambin tiene una mayor probabilidad de repetir cada tipo de canto varias veces antes de cambiar a un tipo nuevo. La densidad de C. meridae tambin fue la menor, con 0.4 a 2.0 territorios por cada 10 hectreas. C. meridae es muy territorial, con una marcada variacin microgeogrfica en las cantos. Las hembras de esta especie tambin cantan. En resumen, estos datos apoyan las ideas de que en el gnero Cistothorus, el tamao del repertorio del canto aumenta con la densidad poblacional y que la territorialidad promueve la imitacin de cantos. 
40072359|The Buff-breasted Sandpiper (
1370352| We compared mitochondrial DNA sequences of Three-toed Woodpeckers (Picoides tridactylus) within and between Eurasia and North America. Samples from the two continents are each reciprocally monophyletic, and differ by approximately 4% sequence divergence, suggesting that a separate species exists on each continent. We recommend formal taxonomic action. Within continents, no phylogeographic structuring was found, suggesting that both species have recently expanded their ranges following the end of the last ice age. /// Comparamos secuencias de ADN mitocondrial en Picoides tridactylus, dentro y entre Eurasia y Amrica del Norte. Las muestras de cada uno de los dos continentes son recprocamente monofilticas y difieren aproximadamente en un 4% de divergencia secuencial, sugiriendo que existe una especie distinta en cada continente. Recomendamos accin taxonmica formal. No encontramos estructura filogeogrfica dentro de los continentes, sugiriendo que ambas especies han expandido recientemente sus rangos luego del final de la ltima era glacial. 
10.2307/1369932|The object of this review is to relate nest-building behavior to the origin and early evolution of passerine birds (Order Passeriformes). I present evidence for the hypothesis that the combination of small body size and the ability to place a constructed nest where the bird chooses, helped make possible a vast amount of adaptive radiation. A great diversity of potential habitats especially accessible to small birds was created in the late Tertiary by global climatic changes and by the continuing great evolutionary expansion of flowering plants and insects. Cavity or hole nests (in ground or tree), open-cup nests (outside of holes), and domed nests (with a constructed roof) were all present very early in evolution of the Passeriformes, as indicated by the presence of all three of these basic nest types among the most primitive families of living passerine birds. Secondary specializations of these basic nest types are illustrated in the largest and most successful families of suboscine birds. Nest site and nest form and structure often help characterize the genus, as is exemplified in the suboscines by the ovenbirds (Furnariidae), a large family that builds among the most diverse nests of any family of birds. The domed nest is much more common among passerines than in non-passerines, and it is especially frequent among the very smallest passerine birds the world over. Each basic type of nest built by passerines has advantages and disadvantages in specific ecological situations, and nest type depends on a balance of multiple factors that involve the nest site, the physical environment, the community, and the size and behavior of the birds.
90008454|Demographic heterogeneity has long been considered within wildlife populations, but only the modern development of capturemarkrecapture methods allows this to be easily tested and quantified. It is now possible to rapidly assess whether the modeling of heterogeneous populations, in which categories of individuals differ in survival rate, performs better than traditional approaches, in which all individuals are considered equivalent within a sex and age class. Using long-term banding data for 4,703 adult female Green-winged Teal (
4096554| Using nest and banding data collected from 1991 to 2002, we investigated mate and territory retention rates of Yellow-eyed Penguins (Megadyptes antipodes), and the effects of reproductive success. Annual mate retention rate was 63%, and territory retention for males and females were 52% and 46% respectively. The majority of pair dissolutions were due to death of a partner, with only 6% of bonds ending in separation. Previous reproductive success was a good predictor of mate or territory retention as pairs that failed to fledge a single chick were significantly more likely to separate or move their territories than those that were successful at fledging chicks. Reproductive success of birds that changed their mates or moved territories was not higher than those that retained their mates or territories. However, birds that moved territories were less likely to have reduced fledging success relative to their previous breeding attempt. Birds that did not retain their mates, particularly males, were significantly more likely to skip breeding for at least one year. This suggests that the costs of mate or territory changes are not accrued at the end of the breeding attempt (as reflected by the number of fledged chicks), but are associated with the costs of pair formation and establishment of territories at the beginning of the breeding season. /// Investigamos las tasas de retencin de parejas y de territorios por parte de pinginos Megadyptes antipodes y el efecto del xito reproductive sobre estas tasas con base en datos de nidificacin y anillamiento recolectados entre 1991 y 2002. La tasa anual de retencin de parejas fue del 63% y las de retencin de territorios del 52% y 46% para machos y hembras, respectivamente. La mayora de las disoluciones de parejas se debieron a la muerte de una de las aves y slo el 6% de las parejas terminaron seprandose. El xito reproductive previo predijo acertadamente la retencin de compaeros y de territorios, ya que las parejas que no lograron emplumar ningn pichn tuvieron una probablilidad de disolverse o de cambiar de territorio significativamente mayor que las que criaron exitosamente. El xito reproductivo de las aves que cambiaron de pareja o de territorio no fue mayor que el de aquellas que no lo hicieron. Sin embargo, los individuos que cambiaron de territorio fueron ms propensos a presentar un xito de emplumamiento reducido con respecto a su intento reproductivo previo. Las aves que no retuvieron sus parejas, particularmente los machos, presentaron una probabilidad mayor de no reproducirse durante al menos un ao. Esto sugiere que los costos que implica cambiar de pareja o de territorio no se hacen evidentes al final del intento reproductivo (como lo indica el nmero de volantones producidos), sino que estn asociados con los costos de la formacin de parejas y el establecimiento de territorios al comienzo de la poca reproductiva. 
10.2307/1370012| Relationships within the rhinocryptid genus Pteroptochos (huet-huets and turca) were investigated using complete sequences of the mitochondrial genes COII and ND3. Phylogenetic analysis of multiple individuals per taxon revealed that P. castaneus, P. tarnii, and P. megapodius constitute separate lineages, with P. castaneus and P. tarnii as sister taxa, and P. megapodius sister to these. Bootstrap support for these results was strong (79-100%). Sequence divergence between species was high, ranging from 6.1% between P. castaneus and P. tarnii to 7.6% between P. castaneus and P. megapodius. High genetic divergence between P. castaneus and P. tarnii is consistent with plumage and vocal differences between these taxa, and they appear to be separate species under both biological and phylogenetic species concepts. The Bo-Bo River, a proposed dispersal barrier to P. tarnii, may be ineffective in limiting gene flow in this species, east of its confluence with the Laja River. /// Las relaciones filogenticas dentro del gnero rhinocrypto Pteroptochos (huet-huets y turca) fueron investigadas usando secuencias completas de los genes mitocondriales COII y ND3. Los anlisis filogenticos que incluyeron mltiples individuos por taxn revelaron que P. castaneus, P. tarnii, y P. megapodius constituyen taxones separados. Pteroptochos castaneus y P. tarnii son taxones hermanos, y P. megapodius es el taxn hermano a estos. El apoyo de "bootstrap" de estos resultados fue fuerte (79-100%). La divergencia entre las secuencias fue alta, de 6.1% entre P. castaneus y P. tarnii y de 7.6% entre P. castaneus y P. megapodius. Esta considerable divergencia gentica entre P. castaneus y P. tarnii concuerda con las diferencias que hay entre estas especies en plumaje y vocalizaciones. Por estos resultados se recomienda que estos dos taxa sean considerados especies separadas en trminos biologicos y filogenticos. Es posible que el ro Bo-Bo, propuesto como una barrera a la dispersin de P. tarnii, no sea efectivo al este de su confluencia con el ro Laja en limitar el flujo gentico de estas especies. 
10.2307/1368727|To evaluate the nutritional challenge faced by molting penguins we studied the composition of contour feathers of three species of penguins, Pygoscelis adeliae, P. antarctica, and P. papua. The feathers of these species are nearly identical in structure and chemical composition. They have a unique broad, flat rachis that accounts for 60 to 70% of the total feather mass. Their barbules are pennaceous and able to interlock tightly, which probably accounts for the shedding of plumage in sheets rather than as individual feathers. Compositionally, the penguin feathers are remarkably similar to feathers of other species of birds representing six different orders and varied life-styles. Whole penguin feathers averaged 8-10% water. Ash contents of P. adeliae and P. antarctica feathers averaged less than 1%, but P. papua averaged 2.6%. The nitrogen contents of the barbs were nearly identical in the three species and averaged 16.4%. The nitrogen content of the rachises of P. adeliae and P. antarctica feathers averaged 16.4%, but was slightly less in P. papua (15.5%), probably due to the higher ash content and slightly higher pigment content in this species. The most abundant amino acids in barbs and rachises were gly, pro, ser, cys/2, val, and leu. Six nonessential amino acids (ala, asp, glu, gly, pro, ser) made up 52.5 and 54.3% of the barbs and rachises, respectively. The basic amino acids (lys, his, arg) were among the least concentrated amino acids. This amino acid profile is typical of mixed feather keratins. The high cys/2 contents of feather proteins results in a large mismatch between nonkeratinous mixed tissue proteins and feathers that could result in highly inefficient reutilization of tissue amino acids in feather synthesis during the molt fast. Some compensatory mechanisms that penguins might use to minimize this inefficiency are discussed.
10.2307/1366828|We tested the hypothesis that female-female pairings in Ring-billed (Larus delawarensis) and California gulls (L. californicus) result from a shortage of males in the breeding population. This hypothesis was tested by removing males from one Ring-billed and four California gull colonies early in the breeding season. The frequency of 4-6 egg clutches, which we used as an index of female-female pairings, was significantly higher in these colonies than in nearby control colonies, thus supporting our hypothesis. Our results indicate that female-female pairings allow females the chance to breed when they are unable to obtain a male partner.
10.2307/1369022|Nest defense behaviors are defined as counteradaptations to brood parasitism if the defensive behaviors are (1) beneficial and (2) specific to brood parasites. Specificity implies recognition of parasites and host responses tailored to brood parasite intrusions. We investigated the adaptive value and specificity of Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii) responses to simulated and live intrusions of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). We hypothesized that flycatchers which were quieter near their nests were less likely to be parasitized. Parasitism was associated with noisier flycatcher pairs, suggesting that inconspicuous behavior was adaptive for this heavily parasitized population. The flycatchers' responses to cowbird intrusions differed depending on the context of intrusions. Flycatchers chased female cowbirds near the nest (<2 m) but not cowbirds further from the nest nor other species which approached to within 2 m. Preincubation behavior (sitting in the nest) was observed in 42% of flycatcher nests during live and simulated cowbird intrusions. We tested whether flycatchers responded adaptively (quietly) to playbacks of female cowbird vocalizations distant (5 m) from the nest. In our first experiment, flycatchers were quieter in response to calls of a brood-parasite than they were to a playback of a nonparasitic species (Rufous-sided Towhee). In a second experiment, parasitized and unparasitized flycatchers did not differ in their response to female cowbird calls. Taken together, our results suggest that this population of Willow Flycatchers differentially recognized female cowbirds and differentially responded to female cowbirds, depending on the cowbird's distance from the nest. This response did not appear to differ with the experience of parasitism.
10.1525/cond.2010.090166|Trace-element analysis has been suggested as a tool for the study of migratory connectivity because (1) trace-element abundance varies spatially in the environment, (2) trace elements are assimilated into animals' tissues through the diet, and (3) current technology permits the analysis of multiple trace elements in a small tissue sample, allowing the simultaneous exploration of several elements. We explored the potential of trace elements (B, Na, Mg, Al, Si, P, S, K, Ca, Ti, Cr, Mn, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Sr, Cs, Hg, Tl, Pb, Bi, Th, and U) to clarify the migratory connectivity of shorebirds that breed in North America and winter in southern South America. We collected 66 recently replaced secondary feathers from Red Knots (
90008443|Mississippi Kites (
10.2307/1367376|Inca Doves (Scardafella inca) were studied in Galveston, Texas, from August 1977 through March 1981, with the aim of evaluating the occurrence and nature of quantitative seasonal changes in behavior. Three such behaviors are described and analyzed: (1) number of midday-calling ("co-oh cooo") birds; (2) estival foraging in large open fields; and (3) winter flocking. The vernal increase phase of the first of these had positive and significant (P < 0.001) regressions with daylength during each of two consecutive years, and showed little if any relation with minutes of sun, or with temperatures, during census days. Daily timing of foraging in large open fields during summer was highly consistent for three consecutive years, with peak numbers in late afternoon. Winter flocking behavior was more variable. Although these behaviors can be seen at any season, they show significant quantitative seasonal changes or patterns in this species near the northern limit of its subtropical geographic range.
10.2307/1368115|To determine which forest structure characteristics were related to and possibly affected Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) territory size in Missouri, we followed radio-marked Pileated Woodpeckers, sampled habitat within territories, and examined the statistical relationships between territory size and habitat characteristics. Pileated Woodpecker territory size ranged from 53-160 ha. Percent forest overstory canopy cover, percent saw timber cover, and log and stump volume within territories were negatively related to territory size. In light of the structural cues hypothesis (Smith and Shugart 1987), we suggest forest log and stump volume, and percent overstory canopy cover may be structural cues used by Pileated Woodpeckers to ascertain food availability within a forest and Pileated Woodpeckers may adjust territory size in response to these structural cues. We recommend forest managers leave thinning and logging slash on site after management operations so debris can serve as foraging substrates for woodpeckers.
10.2307/1368227|Short-term dietary mixing by American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and other fruit-eating birds in eastern North America was examined using 5,697 records of stomach contents for 11 bird species and 3,618 avian fecal droppings from New Jersey. Avian seed budgets were estimated by using fruit morphological data to relate foraging observations to seed counts from stomachs and feces. Remnants of multiple taxa of foods were found commonly in individual feces and stomachs although these samples held only 0.25-2 times the seeds consumed during a typical feeding bout. Depending on bird taxon, seeds from different fruit species were mixed in 1.5-39.6% of feces and 4.2-41.6% of stomachs, and fruit and animal material were mixed in 24-59% of stomachs. Frequency of mixed seeds was positively correlated with proportion of fruit in the stomach and with seed concentration of fruits in the diet. For birds overwintering in the United States, seed mixing in stomachs peaked in winter when birds were most dependent on fruit, not in fall when fruit abundance and diversity were greatest. Thus, estimates of dietary mixing may be biased by seasonal or habitat-related trends in avian fruit dependence or fruit morphology. Furthermore, mixing was no less common in feces than in comparable stomachs even though stomachs contained three to four times more seed mass. This finding along with our observations of seed treatment by birds suggested that mixing was amplified by shuffling of seeds and fruits in the upper gut and by variability of seed transit times through the intestines.
10.1525/cond.2011.100052|We report the results of a 40-year study of the western Red-shouldered Hawk (
10.2307/1369948|We investigated cultural evolution in the song of the introduced North American population of the Eurasian Tree Sparrow (Passer montanus), derived from 12 pairs brought from Germany in 1870. These birds were liberated at St. Louis, Missouri, and spread into Illinois. Cultural evolution is described here in terms of the processes of population differentiation where the song meme was the unit of transmission. The distribution of song syllable memes in each meme pool fit a null hypothesis of a neutral model with an equilibrium between mutation, migration, and drift, indicating that the memes are functionally equivalent. The introduced and ancestral (German) populations showed marked divergence in the level of meme sharing. The small size of the founding North American population, the loss of genetic diversity there, and the relative susceptibility of meme pools to founder effects suggest that much of the reduction in sharing of syllable types occurred during the founding event. Because memes also are susceptible to extinction due to drift, memes were probably lost in both populations as a result of random memetic drift. Meme diversity in Illinois was comparable with that in Germany, suggesting a large mutational input into the former population following its founding. Estimates of mutational divergence based on the frequencies of song memes in meme pools showed more population structure in Illinois than in Germany. There also was less meme flow among meme pools in Illinois than in Germany. These results suggest that there were a series of founding events during the colonization of North America.
10.2307/1370155|There are a growing number of studies which suggest that variable incubation periods may be the norm for waterfowl, and that this variation may be correlated with other life-history traits. I examined variation in length of incubation in relation to nest initiation date and clutch size in five species of dabbling ducks during 1995 and 1996. I also conducted a manipulative experiment to directly assess the relationship between clutch size and incubation period in Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors). The length of incubation declined seasonally for all species and in both years. After controlling for nest initiation date, incubation periods were positively correlated with clutch size in only one species during one of two years. Enlarged clutches were incubated two days longer than control or reduced clutches, although reduced and control clutches had similar incubation lengths. These results suggest that clutch size explains only a small amount of the total variation in incubation length, and the cost of incubation may operate with other factors to help limit clutch size in Blue-winged Teal.
10.2307/1369601|To understand why breeding Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) select forests with dense shrubs, I assessed the value of this habitat in supplying opportunities for foraging and nesting. I predicted that these warblers would select shrub foliage for foraging if foraging substrate was important in their selection of habitat and that they would place their nests in areas of dense shrubs if nest-site availability affected habitat choice. To measure foraging and nest-site selection, I compared the proportion of foraging or nests in a particular habitat element to the availability of that element expressed as a proportion of all habitat elements. Foraging males under-utilized shrub foliage (below 3 m) in relation to its relative availability and over-utilized the sparse foliage between 3-9 m high. On a horizontal plane, males over-utilized areas of their territories with dense shrub foliage, but this could be due to the greater number of shrubs in these areas. Small samples of females and males feeding fledglings indicated that the lower foliage strata, but not necessarily dense shrub patches, might be important to these groups. These results demonstrate differences in foraging patterns between the sexes and between stages of the breeding cycle. More importantly, foraging Black-throated Blue Warblers showed no consistent selection of dense shrubs. As this species is more abundant in forests with dense shrubs, these analyses suggest that foraging may have a minor influence on habitat selection. Black-throated Blue Warblers consistently selected areas of dense shrubs for nesting. Number of shrub stems and amount of foliage (0-1 m high) were significantly higher at nests than at random points. Furthermore, on an experimental plot with chemically defoliated shrubs, males continued to forage, but nesting was markedly reduced. These results suggest that, while shrubs are used for both foraging and nesting, nest-site requirements may be more important in determining what habitat is selected by Black-throated Blue Warblers. If nest-site requirements determine habitat choices in other forest birds, then the availability of suitable nest-sites should have an important effect on community structure.
40306168|Surveys based on double sampling include a correction for the probability of detection by assuming complete enumeration of birds in an intensively surveyed subsample of plots. To evaluate this assumption, we calculated the probability of detecting active shorebird nests by using information from observers who searched the same plots independently. Our results demonstrate that this probability varies substantially by species and stage of the nesting cycle but less by site or density of nests. Among the species we studied, the estimated single-visit probability of nest detection during the incubation period varied from 0.21 for the White-rumped Sandpiper (
10.2307/1369287|This study examined the relationship between habitat structure and habitat use by the Western Kingbird (Tyrannus verticalis) in western Nebraska using hierarchical analysis. Multivariate statistics compared habitat used by Western Kingbirds with a null model of random, unused habitat at multiple scales: macrohabitat (habitat type and territory) and microhabitat (nest tree and nest site). Western Kingbirds exhibit different patterns of habitat use at different spatial scales. They are highly selective at the macrohabitat scale, using only a subset of the available habitat types. Used habitat types have large, widely spaced cottonwood trees with greater grass cover, while unused habitat types have smaller, more closely spaced trees with less grass cover. In contrast, Western Kingbirds are less selective within the macrohabitat scale. There are few significant differences between used and unused territories--only maximum canopy height was significantly different. Western Kingbirds are highly selective at the microhabitat scale, and nest in only a subset of the available trees--larger, taller trees with more available perches. This pattern of nest tree use is consistent between used study sites, even in the face of some inter-site differences in habitat structure. In addition, nest-site location is similar between used study sites and among nest trees. Habitat use by Western Kingbirds in western Nebraska is consistent with a hierarchical view of habitat selection in which Western Kingbirds use different sets of selection criteria at different scales, arriving within the habitat type and then selecting territories, nest trees and nest sites.
10.1525/cond.2010.100153|The Rusty Blackbird (
1370576| Host-specific brood parasites use a limited diversity of host species to raise their young. The two species of parasitic cuckoo that occur in New Zealand, Shining Cuckoo (Chrysococcyx lucidus) and Long-tailed Cuckoo (Eudynamys taitensis), are both host specific despite the availability of other apparently suitable species to act as hosts. To determine if host specificity has been shaped by the widespread occurrence of egg rejection among potential hosts, I tested the response of nine native passerine species to brood parasitism by the experimental addition of artificial cuckoo eggs to their nests. Artificial Shining Cuckoo eggs were rejected at least some of the time in eight of nine species tested, but levels of rejection were generally low. The majority of hosts accepted artificial Long-tailed Cuckoo eggs, and only the Brown Creeper (Mohoua novaeseelandiae) rejected eggs of both cuckoos. The occurrence of egg rejection in species currently not used as hosts (e.g., New Zealand Robin [Petroica australis]) suggests that they may have been parasitized by cuckoos in the past. Although egg rejection appears to limit the number of species currently suitable as hosts, it is not clear why acceptor species such as Fantails (Rhipidura fuliginosa) and Bellbirds (Anthornis melanura) are rarely parasitized, nor why egg mimicry as a counteradaptation to rejector species such as Brown Creepers and the New Zealand Pipit (Anthus novaeseelandiae) is poorly developed. On islands with depauperate avifaunas such as New Zealand, it is possible that the evolution of antiparasite adaptations in a small number of potential hosts may restrict the ability of brood parasites to evolve generalist strategies of host use. /// Los parsitos de cra hospedero-especfico utilizan una diversidad limitada de especies hospederas para criar a sus pichones. Las dos especies de cucos parsitos que se encuentran en Nueva Zelands, Chrysococcyx lucidus y Eudynamys taitensis, son hospederoespecficas a pesar de la disponibilidad de otras especies aparentemente apropiadas para servir como hospederas. Para determinar si la especificidad de hospedero ha sido moldeada por una alta frecuencia de rechazo de huevos por parte de los hospederos potenciales, puse a prueba la respuesta de nueve especies de paserinos nativos ante el parasitismo de cra aadiendo huevos de cucos en sus nidos experimentalmente. Los huevos artificiales de C. lucidus fueron rechazados al menos algunas veces en ocho de las nueve especies estudiadas, pero los niveles de rechazo fueron generalmente bajos. La mayora de los hospederos aceptaron los huevos artificiales de E. taitensis, y slo Mohoua novaeseelandiae rechaz los huevos de ambos cucos. La ocurrencia de rechazo de huevos en especies no utilizadas actualmente como hospederos (e.g., Petroica australis) sugiere que stas podran haber sido parasitadas por cucos en el pasado. Aunque el rechazo de huevos parece limitar el nmero de especies actualmente apropiadas para servir como hospederas, no es claro por qu especies que aceptan los huevos (como Rhipidura fuliginosa y Anthornis melanura) son raramente parasitadas, ni por qu est poco desarrollado el mimetismo de huevos como una contra-adaptacin ante especies que rechazan los huevos (como M. novaeseelandiae y Anthus novaeseelandiae). En islas con avifaunas empobrecidas como Nueva Zelanda, es posible que la evolucin de adaptaciones antiparsitos en un pequeo nmero de hospederos potenciales restrinja la habilidad de los parsitos de cra para evolucionar hacia estrategias generalistas de uso de hospederos. 
10.2307/1367140|The habitats selected for nesting and the breeding biology of a dense population of Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica hudsonia) were studied over two years in northern Utah. Breeding density was at least twice that previously reported and first-year birds comprised approximately 40% of the breeding population. Nest territories were densely packed in all available habitats and had a mean size of 0.5 ha. Date of clutch initiation was negatively correlated with clutch size and number of fledglings. Earlier nests were more successful than later ones. First-year birds most often occupied marginal habitats and bred less successfully than older adults. Mixed-age pairs were intermediate in reproductive variables. Neither the timing, clutch size, nor success of the reproductive effort were affected by the high density or the large proportion of breeding first-year birds. Females sometimes had lower success, however, if they mated with inexperienced first-year males. Our results suggest that these magpies have a malleable territorial system in relation to density and that high density itself does not limit their production.
10.2307/1369897| Incubation constancy, i.e., the proportion of time on the nest, of female Redheads (Aythya americana) was examined during the summers of 1995 and 1996 in relation to female age, body mass, and ambient conditions. Redhead females exhibited one of the lowest incubation constancy (82%) among duck species (Anatidae), coupled with a comparatively high number of incubation recesses per day. Low constancy was not due to excessive disturbance at the nest or reduced maternal investment in the clutch, but was probably related to energetic constraints of the female imposed by laying parasitic eggs prior to nesting. As in most other duck species, incubation constancy decreased over the incubation period. Age, mass, and maximum daily temperature, and the interactions of initiation day  age and mass  date significantly influenced daily incubation constancy. Constancy was higher for older females and for females of lower body mass and was lower on days with higher maximum daily temperatures. 
10.2307/1370060|We measured how fighting, mate-guarding, ectoparasitism, and annual reproductive success varied with colony size in Purple Martins (Progne subis) in Tulsa County, Oklahoma, in 1997. Fights bird<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup> changed significantly with colony size, peaking in intermediate-sized colonies. Intensity of mate-guarding by males increased significantly with colony size. Ectoparasitism of nestlings by the martin mite (Dermanyssus prognephilus) increased significantly with colony size, but nestling body mass declined with mite load only for broods of six nestlings. Reproductive success did not vary significantly with colony size. Purple Martin colonies probably do not routinely reach large enough sizes for the costs of fighting or ectoparasitism to be important. These birds apparently do not experience direct benefits of coloniality, and groups likely form in response to limited nesting sites. The pattern in reproductive success suggests that Purple Martin colonies represent ideal free distributions of birds with respect to resource availability in each habitat patch, and mean fitness of birds in different patches is similar.
1370670| We identified bacteria collected from the ejaculates and cloacae of male Redwinged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) and from the cloacae of their mates during two breeding seasons and at three geographic locations with two distinct breeding habitats in each. In all, 42% of 233 ejaculates contained at least one bacteria species. Analysis of control samples suggested that some bacteria come from contamination during collection, but most are either carried within the ejaculate or are present on the male cloaca. As in an earlier study of Agelaius phoeniceus, we recorded many different species with considerable diversity between samples. We tested several explanations for this diversity. We found no overlap in either the presence of bacteria or the species found in multiple ejaculates obtained from the same male. We also found no association between bacteria in the ejaculate and those in the cloaca from the same male, or in samples collected from a male and those from the females nesting on his territory. Surveys of ejaculates from three locations, Kentucky, New York, and Wisconsin, yielded similar patterns of prevalence and diversity. Ejaculate samples from males inhabiting relatively dry upland habitats contained a similar number of bacteria and array of species as males inhabiting relatively wet, marshy territories. Many of the isolated bacteria are probably benign, but pathological effects of some species have been recorded in some circumstances. Our results suggest that acquiring pathogenic bacteria represents a potential cost to multiple mating by females, but the potential benefits of some microbes may offset these risks. /// Identificamos bacterias aisladas del semen eyaculado y de las cloacas de machos de la especie Agelaius phoeniceus y de las cloacas de sus parejas hembras durante dos estaciones y en tres reas geogrficas, con dos tipos de hbitat en cada rea. En general, el 42% de las 233 muestras de eyaculaciones present por lo menos una especie de bacteria. El anlisis de las muestras control sugire que algunas bacterias provienen de contaminacin ambiental durante la colecta, pero la mayora de las bacterias provienen del semen o estn presentes en la cloaca del macho. Al igual que en un estudio anterior con Agelaius phoeniceus, registramos muchas especies distintas, con bastante diversidad entre las muestras. Pusimos a prueba algunas hiptesis que podran explicar esta diversidad. No encontramos coincidencia ni en la presencia de bacterias ni en las especies encontradas entre mltiples muestras obtenidas de un mismo macho. Tampoco encontramos correspondencia entre las bacterias presentes en las muestras de semen y de la cloaca de un mismo macho, ni entre las muestras colectadas de los machos y de las hembras que se encuentran anidando en su territorio. El estudio de muestras de eyaculaciones provenientes de tres localidades, Kentucky, New York, y Wisconsin, produjo patrones similares de prevalencia y diversidad. Muestras de semen de machos que habitan ambientes relativamente secos en tierras altas presentaron nmeros de bacterias y especies similares a las muestras colectadas de machos que habitan territorios pantanosos. Probablemente, muchas de las bacterias son benignas, pero en ciertas circunstancias se han registrado efectos patolgicos de algunas especies. Nuestros resultados sugieren que adquirir bacterias patolgicas es un posible costo del apareamiento mltiple de las hembras, pero los posibles beneficios de algunos microbios podran compensar estos riesgos. 
10.2307/1370460|Telemetry studies of Tawny Owl (Strix aluco) fledglings (n = 53) were conducted from May to August in central Norway, where the species is at the northern limit of its range and its density is generally low. Mortality before dispersal was 61% due to starvation and predation by red fox (Vulpes vulpes), pine marten (Martes martes), and Corvus spp. Mortality was highest during the first 10 days after leaving the nest box, when fledglings were small and had poorly developed locomotion. Fledglings that died or disappeared during the first 10 days after leaving the nest box were significantly lighter than those that survived. Mean distance between fledglings and nest box increased during the summer, but fledglings remained relatively close to siblings and their mother until dispersal. The average area used by fledglings that survived to dispersal was 26 ha (n = 15), which is a figure larger than reported elsewhere for this species. Dense forest habitats were preferred, and roosting sites offering good vertical and horizontal concealment were used frequently. We propose that observed habitat and area use reflect antipredator strategies and generally low density of this strictly territorial species.
4122547| We evaluated the impact of Hurricane Isabel on nest loss and reproductive performance of Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in the lower Chesapeake Bay. Approximately 40% of Bald Eagle nest trees (n = 527) were damaged and 127 nests were lost during the storm. Nest loss was significantly higher than in years prior to and after the storm. Only 46% of pairs that lost nests attempted to breed the following season, compared to 85% of pairs that did not lose nests. Of the pairs that made breeding attempts, only 69% of pairs that lost nests during the hurricane produced young compared to 83% of pairs that did not lose nests. Average brood size was also reduced for pairs that lost nests. The disparity in reproductive performance between the two groups narrowed in the second breeding season after the storm. Hurricane Isabel had a significant but short-lived impact on the Bald Eagle breeding population in the lower Chesapeake Bay. /// Evaluamos el impacto del Huracn Isabel sobre la prdida de nidos y el desempeo reproductivo de Haliaeetus leucocephalus en la parte baja de la Baha de Chesapeake. Durante la tormenta, aproximadamente el 40% de los rboles en los que se ubicaban nidos de H. leucocephalus (n = 527) se deterioraron, y 127 nidos se perdieron. La prdida de nidos fue significativamente mayor que en aos anteriores y posteriores a la tormenta. Slo el 46% de las parejas que perdieron sus nidos intent reproducirse en la temporada siguiente, en comparacin con el 85% de las parejas que no perdieron sus nidos. De las parejas que hicieron intentos reproductivos, slo el 69% de aquellas que perdieron sus nidos durante el huracn produjo cras, en comparacin con el 83% de las parejas que no perdieron sus nidos. El tamao promedio de la nidada tambin fue reducido para las parejas que perdieron sus nidos. La disparidad en el desempeo reproductivo entre los dos grupos se hizo ms estrecha en la segunda temporada reproductiva posterior a la tormenta. El Huracn Isabel tuvo un impacto significativo pero de corta duracin sobre la poblacin reproductiva de H. leucocephalus de la parte baja de la Baha de Chesapeake. 
10.2307/1369356|Compared with their Atlantic counterparts, Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) in North Pacific colonies are notably unproductive. A large colony on Middleton Island, Alaska, has in most years since 1981 seen complete breeding failure and the population has declined by half. We compared parent-offspring behaviors in this colony during two years that differed in overall breeding success. Potential indicators of food stress included parental attendance at the nest, foraging trip lengths, chick feeding and begging rates, and sibling aggression. Whereas chick feeding and begging rates were strongly correlated with overall breeding performance, patterns of time allocation by adults (nest attendance and foraging trips) were not. Contrasts between years and comparisons with data from other colonies in and outside Alaska point to food shortage as the likely cause of recurrent breeding failure on Middleton.
4096510| Tracing movements of migratory birds between breeding and wintering areas is important for both theoretical and conservation purposes. Intrinsic markers such as stable isotopes have received considerable attention because of their usefulness for evaluating migratory connections without the need to mark and recapture individuals. Establishing migratory linkages using stable-isotope markers hinges on knowing which tissues most accurately reflect the isotopic signature of previous feeding locations of interest. Here, we assessed the correspondence among stable-hydrogen isotope (D) values of feathers, claws, and cellular portions of blood from migrating White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) to determine if these measures provided concordant estimates of origins. D values of claws from birds captured during spring and fall migration were positively correlated with D values of head feathers grown on the wintering grounds and tail feathers grown on breeding grounds, respectively, indicating that claws contained information on origins of individuals. However, analyses contrasting D measurements of base and tip of claws, and head and tail feathers suggest that a significant amount of claw growth occurred during migration resulting in biased estimates of breeding and wintering origins. Thus, for ground-foraging birds like White-throated Sparrows, we caution against using isotope measurements of claws as long-term position indicators. D values of blood were correlated with the D values from the base of claws, which represented the most recent claw growth, but were not correlated with the D values of claw tips and head feathers. Thus, it appears that the D values of blood cells are not useful for estimating wintering latitudes of White-throated Sparrows captured during spring migration. /// El seguimiento de los movimientos de las aves migratorias entre las reas reproductivas y de invernada es importante tanto por motivos tericos como de conservacin. Los marcadores intrnsecos como los istopos estables han recibido una atencin considerable debido a su utilidad para evaluar conexiones migratorias sin la necesidad de marcar y recapturar individuos. El establecimiento de vnculos migratorios usando marcadores de is topos estables depende del conocimiento de cules son los tejidos que mejor reflejan la seal isotpica de los sitios de alimentacin previos de inters. En este trabajo, evaluamos la relacin entre los valores de los istopos estables de hidr geno (D) de las plumas, garras y porciones celulares de la sangre de individuos migratorios de Zonotrichia albicollis para determinar si estas medidas brindaban estimaciones concordantes sobre sus lugares de origen. Los valores de D de las garras de aves capturadas durante las migraciones de primavera y otoo estuvieron correlacionados positivamente con los valores de D de las plumas de la cabeza desarrolladas en los sitios de invernada y de las plumas de la cola desarrolladas en los sitios reproductivos, indicando que las garras contenan informacin sobre los or genes invernales de los individuos. Sin embargo, los anlisis que contrastaron las medidas de D de la base y la punta de las garras, y de las plumas de la cabeza y de la cola sugieren que una cantidad significativa del crecimiento de las garras ocurri durante la migracin, generando estimaciones sesgadas de los sitios reproductivos y de invernada de origen. De este modo, para las aves que se alimentan en el suelo como Z. albicollis, sugerimos no usar medidas de istopos de las garras como indicadores a largo plazo de la posicin. Los valores de D de la sangre estuvieron correlacionados con los valores de D de la base de las garras, los que reflejaron el crecimiento reciente de las garras, pero no estuvieron correlacionados con los valores de D de la punta de la garras y de las plumas de la cabeza. De este modo, parece que los valores de D de las clulas sanguneas no son tiles para estimar las latitudes de invernada de individuos de Z. albicollis capturados durante la migracin de primavera. 
10.2307/1369331|Individual variation in fruit choice by captive American Robins (Turdus migratorius) was marked, for most of the tested fruit traits (color, nutrient content, seed load), and choices were often contingent on other factors. Robins often favored blue, and sometimes red, artificial fruits over green or yellow ones, although one bird preferred green and rejected blue. Color preference rankings were usually transitive but did not closely correspond with the frequency ranks of fruit colors in nature. Choice tests with naturally occurring polymorphic fruits showed that both color morphs seemed to be palatable and that the robins' preferences did not necessarily reflect the natural frequency of the color morphs. Robins often selected high-lipid and high-glucose fruits when dark in color, but not when the higher nutrient level was a lighter shade of the same color. Slight decreases of accessibility often altered the preference rankings. Robins did not prefer fruits with low seed loads (high pulp/seed ratios). Robins may provide more consistent selection for certain fruit traits, such as color, than several other species previously examined. However, considerable individual variation was evident, and evidence for selection on macronutrient level was mixed.
10.2307/1369751|We studied nest defense by Common Goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula) and Hooded Mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) nesting near Sudbury, Canada between 1989-1995. As incubation proceeded, female Common Goldeneyes took greater risks by allowing the observer to approach the nest more closely before flushing, landing closer to the nest after flushing, vocalizing more commonly when flushed, and giving more broken wing or distraction displays. Hooded Merganser females exhibited relatively strong defense at all stages, including giving distraction displays much earlier in incubation. An index of all four behaviors increased for each species as incubation proceeded. Nest defense by these cavity-nesting ducks differed from patterns known for ground-nesting waterfowl, perhaps due to effects of nest location, predation type and intensity, and nest parasitism. Future nest defense studies should consider the overall suite of behaviors that comprise parental strategies for defending their nests and/or offspring.
90008465|Potential for large prairie remnants to provide habitat for grassland-obligate wildlife may be compromised by nonsustainable range-management practices. In 19791980, high nesting densities of 3 species of hawks in the genus ButeoFerruginous Hawk (
10.2307/1369470| The social systems and behavior of Tyrannids are best known for the North American representatives, a small percentage of a large and diverse family. In this paper, we describe the breeding season social organization and behavior of the Ochre-bellied Flycatcher, Mionectes oleagineus, a lek-breeding Neotropical Tyrannid. We describe three distinct categories of males. Territory owners defended display territories either solitarily or at small leks of two to six males. Territories at leks shared common defended boundaries and, overall, territories averaged 763 m
4500992| Understanding the effect of habitat alteration on avian behavior is important for understanding a species' ecology and ensuring its conservation. Therefore, we examined the relationship between Spotted Owl habitat selection and variation in habitat in the Sierra Nevada. We estimated habitat selection by modeling the probability of territory colonization (), territory extinction (), and breeding dispersal in relation to the amount of mature conifer forest within and among territories. Alteration of 20 ha of mature conifer forest (coniferous forest with >70% canopy cover dominated by medium [30.4-60.9 cm dbh] and large [>60.9 cm dbh] trees) within individual territories (n = 66) was negatively related to territory colonization and positively related to breeding dispersal probability. Although territory extinction was negatively related to the amount of mature conifer forest, it was not clear whether this relationship was due to variation of mature conifer forest within or among territories. Although modeling results for territory colonization and extinction generally supported the hypothesis that individuals are "ideal" when selecting a habitat in the sense that they settle in the highest-quality site available, we did not find a clear benefit in terms of habitat quality for Spotted Owls that exhibited breeding dispersal. /// Entender el efecto de la alteratin del hbitat sobre el comportamiento de las aves es importante para comprender la ecologa de una especie y asegurar su conservacin. Por lo tanto, examinamos la relatin entre la selectin de hbitat por parte de Strix occidentalis y la variatin en el hbitat en la Sierra Nevada. Estimamos la seleccin de hbitat modelando la probabilidad de colonizacin de un territorio (), de extincin de un territorio () y de dispersarse para reproducirse en relacin con la cantidad de bosque de conferas maduro dentro de y entre los territorios. La alteracin de 20 o ms hectreas de bosque de conferas maduro (bosque de conferas con ms del 70% de la cobertura del dosel dominada por rboles medianos [30.4-60.9 cm de DAP] y grandes [>60.9 cm de DAP]) dentro de territorios individuates (n = 66) se relacion negativamente con la colonizacin de los territorios y positivamente con la probabilidad de dispersarse para reproducirse. Aunque la extincin de los territorios se relacion negativamente con la cantidad de bosque de conferas maduro, no es claro si esta relacin se debi a la variacin en el bosque de conferas maduro dentro de los territorios o entre territorios. Aunque los resultados del modelado de colonizacin y extincin de los territorios en general apoyaron la hiptesis de que los individuos son "ideales" al seleccionar el hbitat en el sentido en que se establecen en los sitios disponibles de mayor calidad, no encontramos un beneficio claro en trminos de la calidad de hbitat para los individuos que se dispersaron para reproducirse. 
10.2307/1370072|White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) occur in two distinct color morphs indicated by the color of the bird's median crown stripe. Tan-striped (TS) and white-striped (WS) sparrows differ in their aggressive behavior, with WS males generally behaving more aggressively than TS males. We measured the number and type of songs and call vocalizations used by TS and WS males in response to simulated territorial intrusion. TS males used significantly more "low aggression" calls compared to WS males. These results suggest that non-song call vocalizations, in addition to measures of song, may be valuable for future studies of territorial behavior and communication in birds.
10.2307/1368673|Geographic Information Systems (GIS's) facilitate analyses of spatial and temporal data. This paper provides an introduction to the terminology, components, advantages, and current limitations of computerized GIS's. Case studies addressing the identification and characterization of potential habitat for the Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) and Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapillus) are provided for illustration of the potential utility of GIS's for ornithological research.
10.2307/1369593|Systematists have long used myology in phylogenetic studies of birds, but have only recently begun to assess the extent of intraspecific variation in muscles and the potentially disruptive effect of such variation on investigations of phylogeny. We provide information on the Ivory-billed Woodcreeper (Xiphorhynchus flavigaster) and the Blue Jay (Cyanocitta cristata), and integrate these results with those of previous studies. Bilateral dissection of 19 specimens of X. flavigaster revealed seven major variants in six different muscles. Ten of the 19 specimens (52.6%) possessed variant muscles; of these, four were unilateral and seven bilateral. Overall, 1.6% of the individual muscles varied from their species-typical states. Six of the 11 variants were found in M. flexor cruris lateralis, suggesting an association with that muscle. The 26 specimens of C. cristata exhibited a different pattern. Major variations occurred in only three muscles, but for each of these a typical condition could not be ascribed because variation was extensive and polymorphic. Analysis of similar information for a total of 14 species of passerine birds indicated that variation is common enough that many individuals in a sample can be expected to possess at least one variant muscle. However, the probabilities of error in designating species-typical conditions from bilateral dissection of single specimens were low (0.00-0.06), suggesting that intraspecific variation does not significantly compromise phylogenetic analyses of myological data. Simulation experiments are needed to test this hypothesis.
10.2307/1370084|We examined molt chronology of American Coots (Fulica americana) wintering in Alabama. Molt intensity was quantified by converting percentages of developing feathers sampled in 10 feather regions to molt scores (Total Molt Score) and by estimating percentage of total feather mass undergoing molt (%MOLT). Percent occurrence of molting birds was greatest in December (95%) and lowest in January (28%). Molt intensity was higher during October-December than in January and February, with lowest molt intensity occurring in January. This pattern was consistent between Total Molt Score and %MOLT, however, the magnitude of values for Total Molt Score was twice that for %MOLT. We assert that %MOLT provides a more biologically meaningful assessment of molt. Low molt intensity coupled with adequate protein and energy content of the diet resulted in minimal additional nutrient demands due to molt for wintering coots at Guntersville Reservoir.
10.2307/1369909|We document the first breeding records of Whooper Swan (Cygnus cygnus) and Brambling (Fringilla montifringilla) in Alaska and North America on Attu Island in the Western Aleutians in the spring of 1996. Five cygnets were seen with adults and the nest located, and a territorial pair of Bramblings was observed and a nest with eggs found.
10.2307/1369518|Twenty-three Boreal Owls (Aegolius funereus) documented from April 1987 to August 1993, including three fledged juveniles, unequivocally establish the species as a breeding bird in northern New Mexico where they responded at a rate of 0.17 owls/survey hr during both breeding and non-breeding seasons. Their congener, the Northern Saw-whet Owl (A. acadicus), was not recorded during the breeding season and responded at the rate of 0.03 owls/survey hr during the non-breeding season in the same areas. In mountain ranges apparently not occupied by Boreal Owls, Northern Saw-whet Owls responded at rates of 0.35 and 0.27 owls/survey hr for breeding and non-breeding seasons, respectively. Potential habitat for Boreal Owls away from the Rocky Mountains was typically in isolated, small patches that likely would not sustain viable populations. Paleontological, archaeological, and late 19th-early 20th century autumnal specimens from the southern Rockies support the hypothesis that the Boreal Owl has been present in Colorado and New Mexico for centuries, possibly since the Pleistocene. They remained largely undocumented because their high elevation sub-alpine conifer forest habitat is snowbound during their most vocal period (February-April).
10.1525/cond.2011.090243|From 1995 to 1998, we tracked movements of adult Swainson's Hawks (
10.2307/1366811| Lead concentrations in the carcasses and stomach contents of adult and nestling Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) collected within the right-of-way of a major Maryland highway were greater than those found in Barn Swallows nesting within a rural area. Lead concentrations in the feathers of adults from the highway colony were also greater than those of rural adults, but concentrations in the feathers of nestlings from the two locations were similar. Activity of -aminolevulinic acid dehydratase in red blood cells was lower in highway-nesting adults and their young than in their rural counterparts, although hemoglobin concentrations and hematocrits did not differ. The number of eggs, nestlings, and body weights of the latter at 16-18 days of age were similar in the two colonies, as were body weights of adults from the two areas. These results suggest that contamination of roadside habitats by lead from automotive emissions does not pose a serious hazard to birds that are aerial feeders. 
10.2307/1367591| The population size, distribution, and habitat affinities of Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) were investigated during 1975-1978 using monthly aerial, ship, and ground surveys throughout the Southern California Bight. Pelican numbers are lowest during spring, when most birds are found near the relatively small nesting colonies at Anacapa Island and Islas Los Coronados. The annual post-breeding migration from Mexican colonies augments the local population during summer and autumn; estimated peak populations of 65,000 to 94,000 birds occurred in September and October. Throughout autumn and early winter, pelicans regularly occurred as far offshore as Corts Bank, 75 km seaward from the nearest island and 175 km off the mainland. Adults predominated offshore and near the California Channel Islands all year, but immature birds outnumbered adults along the mainland shore during autumn and winter. Brown Pelicans occurred at sea in highest densities in areas of shallow, warm water within about 30 km of shore. During August and December, however, migrating birds showed no discernible affinity for particular sets of environmental conditions. The distribution of spawning northern anchovies, the principal prey of Brown Pelicans during the nesting season, was not a good indicator of bird density distribution. The effects of a two-year warming trend on pelican numbers are discussed. 
10.2307/1369067|The effect and effectiveness of tartar emetic was tested on 82 bird species from 25 families and subfamilies inhabiting seasonal habitats of northeastern Venezuela. Of the 3,419 birds forced to regurgitate, 3,033 diet samples were obtained and 2,712 of them had recognizable food. Seventy birds (2%) died after administration of the chemical, but a smaller dosage or concentration reduced mortality in species more sensitive to the emetic. Overall, 24 invertebrate taxa and 59 fruit species were identified, with an average of 6 items per sample. Pollen grains were observed in 55% of the samples from nectarivorous species. Considering the low mortality, as well as the diversity of prey types and sizes found in samples, regurgitation using tartar emetic is probably the best method for determining the diet of land birds from various feeding habits.
40072415|Black-backed Woodpeckers (
1370106| The 'kohekohe (Palmeria dolei) is an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper endemic to the montane rain forests of east Maui in the Hawaiian Islands. We investigated 'kohekohe nesting ecology using color-banded birds for the first time as a background to understanding the species' conservation. From 1994-1997, we color-banded 78 individuals, located and monitored 46 active nests, and took behavioral data during 534 hr of nest observation at Hanaw Natural Area Reserve, near the center of the species' range. 'kohekohe nesting behavior and life history closely resembled that of 'Apapane (Himatione sanguinea) and related honeycreepers. The birds were monogamous within and among years, and we found no evidence of polyandry, polygyny, or helpers at the nest. The nesting season extended from November to early June. Females performed all incubation and brooding. Males provisioned females and nestlings, and they were more active than females in feeding fledglings during the two-week period of parental dependency. Modal clutch size, as determined from egg counts at three nests and by counting begging chicks at other nests, was two eggs, and parents frequently fledged two chicks. We found an overall nest success rate of 68% by the Mayfield method, a high rate compared with other Hawaiian honeycreepers and continental passerines. An average of 1.1 chicks fledged per active nest, and at least 42% of nesting pairs made two or more nesting attempts per season. Rats (Rattus spp.) were abundant at the study site, and we confirmed their depredating some 'kohekohe nests, so we did not expect to find such a high rate of nest success. The estimated annual probability of adult survival was also high, at 0.95  0.10 (SE). /// Palmeria dolei es una especie de mielero amenazada endmica de las selvas nubladas de montaa del Este de Maui en las Islas de Hawai. Investigamos la ecologa de nidificacin de esta especie usando aves marcadas con anillos de colores como antecedente para entender la conservacin de la especie. Entre 1994-1997 marcamos 78 individuos, localizamos y monitoreamos 46 nidos activos, y recolectamos datos de comportamiento durante 534 hr de observacin de nidos en la Reserva Natural Hanaw, cercana al centro del rango de distribucin de la especie. El comportamiento de nidificacin y la historia de vida de P. dolei son marcadamente similares a los de Himatione sanguinea y otros mieleros relacionados. Las aves fueron mongamas dentro y entre aos, y no hallamos evidencias de poliandra, poliginia, o ayudantes en los nidos. La estacin de nidificacin se extendi desde noviembre hasta principios de junio. Las hembras realizaron toda la incubacin y cuidado de la nidada. Los machos aprovisionaron a las hembras y pichones, y fueron ms activos que las hembras en alimentar a los volantones durante las dos semanas que dependen de los padres. La moda del tamao de la nidada, determinada a partir del conteo de huevos en tres nidos y del recuento de gritos de llamada de pichones, fue de dos huevos, y los padres generalmente lograron criar dos pichones. Encontramos una tasa de xito global de los nidos del 68% estimada con el mtodo Mayfield, lo que representa una alta tasa comparada con la de otros mieleros hawaianos y paseriformes continentales. Un promedio de 1.1 pichones por nido activo llegaron a la etapa de dejar el nido, y al menos 42% de las parejas nidificantes realizaron dos o ms intentos de nidificacin por estacin. Ratas (Rattus spp.) fueron abundantes en el sitio de estudio, y confirmamos que depredan nidos de P. dolei, por lo que no esperabamos obtener una tasa de xito de nidificacin tan alta. La probabilidad estimada de supervivencia de los adultos fue tambin alta, 0.95  0.10 (ES). 
10.2307/1369075| The wintering avocet (Recurvirostra americana) population at Humboldt Bay, California averaged 706  35.6 (n = 30) and 567  67.0 (n = 30) birds from October to May, 1982-1983 and 1983-1984 respectively. Avocets arrived from late-August to mid-November. Birds departed from February to late-April and early-May. Avocets are recorded only casually at other northern California coastal sites. After construction of sewage oxidation ponds at the northeast corner of North Humboldt Bay in 1957, the number of avocets wintering at Humboldt Bay increased. The present wintering population of avocets at Humboldt Bay has increased from 30-35 in 1960 to 500-800 at present. Humboldt Bay probably has the capability to support a larger wintering population than presently exists. Avocets used 868 ha in the northeast corner of North Humboldt Bay, California. Within this area, which covered approximately 25% of available habitat in North Bay, the four major habitats used were: (1) intertidal mud flats, used mainly for feeding and resting; (2) a sewage oxidation pond, used mainly for feeding and secondarily, as a source of fresh water; (3) a section of the North Bay's highest elevation mud flats, used as an early high tide roost; and (4) islands in a brackish 6.9 ha lake adjacent to the North Bay, used as the primary high tide roost. Avocets typically roosted on shallow, submerged bars of islands in deep non-tidal ponds or in shallow water or exposed mud near the water's edge of tidal mud flats. Islands adjacent to deep, non-tidal ponds were used most frequently as roosting sites. Avocets fed at the oxidation ponds mainly in October when high concentrations of invertebrate prey, especially Daphne magna, were present. All other foraging took place on intertidal mud flats within 3 km of roosts. Avocets primarily fed using tactile methods in the wettest substrates. They usually fed within 100 m of the tide edge, and most foraging took place when tide levels were between 0.5 and 1.2 m Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW). 
40072339|The Millerbird (Acrocephalus familiaris) is an endemic Northwestern Hawaiian Islands reed warbler that existed until about 1923 on Laysan Island (A.f.familiaris) and currently occurs in a small population on Nihoa Island (A. f. kingi). The two populations are described as separate subspecies or species on the basis of size and plumage differences. We assessed genetic variation in blood samples from 15 individuals in the modern Nihoa population using approximately 3000 base pairs (bp) of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence and 14 microsatellite loci. We also obtained up to 1028 bp of mtDNA sequence from the fragmented DNA of museum specimens of three birds collected on Nihoa in 1923 and five birds collected on Laysan in 1902 and 1911 (ancient samples). Genetic variation in both marker types was extremely low in the modern Nihoa population (nucleotide diversity [] = 0.00005 for mtDNA sequences; observed heterozygosity was 7.2% for the microsatellite loci). In contrast, we found three mtDNA haplotypes among the five Laysan individuals ( = 0.0023), indicating substantially greater genetic variation. The Nihoa and Laysan taxa differed by 1.7% uncorrected mtDNA sequence divergence, a magnitude that would support designation at the subspecies, and perhaps species, level relative to other closely related Acrocephalus species pairs. However, in light of strong ecological similarity between the two taxa, and a need to have additional populations to prevent extinction from stochastic effects and catastrophes, we believe these genetic differences should not deter a potential translocation of individuals from Nihoa to Laysan. /// Acrocephalus familiar is es una especie endmica de las islas del noroeste de Hawai que existi hasta alrededor de 1923 en la Isla de Laysan (A.f. familiaris) y que existe actualmente como una pequea poblacin en la Isla de Nihoa (A.f. kingi). Las dos poblaciones fueron descritas como dos subespecies o especies distintas con base en diferencias de tamao y plumaje. Evaluamos la variacin gentica en muestras de sangre de 15 individuos de la poblacin moderna de Nihoa utilizando alrededor de 3000 pares de bases (pb) de ADN mitocondrial y 14 loci de microsatelites. Obtuvimos tambin hasta 1028 pb de secuencia de ADNmt de ADN fragmentado de especmenes de museo de tres individuos colectados en Nihoa en 1923 y cinco individuos colectados en Laysan en 1902 y 1911 (muestras antiguas). La variacin genetica en ambos tipos de marcadores fue extremadamente baja en la poblacin moderna de Nihoa (diversidad nucleotidica [] = 0.00005 para secuencias de ADNmt; la heterocigocidad observada fue de 7.2% para los loci de microsatelites). De modo contrastante, encontramos tres haplotipos de ADNmt en cinco individuos de Laysan ( = 0.0023), indicando una variacin gentica substancialmente mayor. Los taxones de Nihoa y de Laysan difieren en 1.7% de divergencia sin correctin de secuencia de ADNmt, una magnitud que apoyara la designatin a nivel de subespecie, y quizs a nivel de especie, con relacin a otros pares de especies estrechamente relacionados en el genero Acrocephalus. Sin embargo, en vista de la fuerte similitud ecolgica que existe entre los dos taxones, y de la necesidad de que existan poblaciones adicionales para prevenir la extincin debido a efectos estocsticos y catstrofes, creemos que estas diferencias genticas no deben disuadir una posible translocacin de individuos de Nihoa a Laysan.
10.1525/cond.2010.100145|Recent evidence suggests that mercury exposure has negative effects on the health of songbirds, and species that forage in wetlands may be at a greater risk of bioaccumulation of mercury than are those of other habitats. We examined mercury concentrations in blood and feathers from the wetland obligate and rapidly declining Rusty Blackbird (
1369843| Two distinct grouse were regularly observed at two Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) leks in both 1999 and 2000 in southeastern Alberta. Physically and behaviorally, the birds exhibited characteristics of both Greater Sage-Grouse and Sharp-tailed Grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus), suggesting they were hybrids. DNA analyses of blood and feather samples indicated that both birds were males with Greater Sage-Grouse mothers and thus, fathers that were likely Sharp-tailed Grouse. /// Dos aves distintivas fueron observadas con regularidad en dos asambleas de cortejo de Centrocercus urophasianus en el sureste de Alberta tanto en 1999 como en 2000. Las aves presentaban caractersticas fsicas y de comportamiento tanto de C. urophasianus como de Tympanuchus phasianellus, lo que sugiere que se trataba de individuos hbridos. Anlisis de ADN extrado de muestras de sangre y plumas indicaron que ambos individuos eran machos hijos de hembras de C. urophasianus. Por tanto, sus padres probablemente eran T. phasianellus. 
40306177|Maximizing reproductive output often entails a trade-off between energy spent on current breeding attempts and that saved for future reproductive opportunities. For species with biparental care, energy spent on the current breeding attempt represents not only a trade-off with future breeding opportunities but also an interaction with the energetic effort of one's mate. In most songbird species, the female typically invests the most in the early stages of breeding. Consequently, the male's contribution to provisioning young may free the female from this energetically costly activity and aid her ability to attempt a second brood. We investigated parental provisioning in the Black-throated Blue Warbler (
10.2307/1369254| We described 623 roosts of Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) in southern Wisconsin from 1986 to 1990. Roosts were in seven species of trees, with 97.9% in white (Picea glauca) and Norway (P. abies) spruces, red (Pinus resinosa) and jack (P. banksiana) pines, and eastern red cedar (Juniperus virginiana). Mean roost height was 4.05  2.21 m (range 0.15-11.20 m) in a 9.15  3.40 m tall tree. Roosts averaged 46.6  43.4 cm from the trunk on a 150.4  69.6 cm long limb. Roost characteristics varied according to tree species, size, and shape. Mean roost height ranged from 1.5  0.4 m in eastern red cedars to 6.9  1.3 m in red pines. Roost height correlated positively with tree height and negatively with distance of roost from trunk. Distance of roost from trunk correlated positively with limb length. Directions of roosts relative to the trunk were random. Mean roost height and height of roost tree increased with time. Most roosts afforded good cover from above and most sides. Saw-whet Owls chose roosts that provide concealment, not those of a particular height. Roosts conferred thermal benefits on owls. Behavior of roosting Saw-whet Owls suggests that the owls' motionlessness when approached by humans is a camouflaging strategy. 
10.2307/1368160| Changes in body mass of breeding Northern Wheatears, Oenanthe oenanthe, on the island of land, south Sweden, were monitored during 1985-1987 in the context of a food provisioning experiment. Individuals were weighed periodically by attracting them to feeders which were placed on electronic digital balances. Rations of 7 g of mealworms per visiting individual were offered daily on certain territories (in 1987, some individuals were offered rations of 4.5 and 9 g). Unprovisioned birds were captured and weighed during the study. Males maintained constant body masses throughout the season. Females increased in mass up to laying, maintained relatively large masses during incubation, and dropped in mass by 14% during the first week after the young hatched. Mass then attained constant levels until the time of offspring independence. There was a positive correlation between brood size and the masses of unprovisioned females during the late nestling phase. Extra food had a positive effect on the general mass level of females but not of males. However, provisioning had no significant effect on the masses of females feeding thermoregulating nestlings, indicating that reproductive stress is not important in determining posthatching mass losses. All females lost mass after hatching, and the heaviest lost proportionally more. Extra food was delivered almost exclusively to the chicks a few days after hatching. Females apparently maintain reserves during incubation and transfer them to the young after hatching by a voluntary shift in the allocation of collected food. Males do not store reserves and have therefore no scope for significant mass changes. 
10.2307/1370183| I evaluated the effects of selective logging upon a bird community in the Brazilian Atlantic forest. Two areas 500 m apart were selected for quantitative (point censuses) avian surveys: a non-fragmented primary forest (PF) and a selectively logged forest (LF). Six of eight quantitative measures of vegetation structure compared between PF and LF were reduced at LF. Indices of avian species richness and diversity were very similar between PF and LF sites; species composition, however, differed strongly. Although the composition of guilds remained largely the same, most guilds differed in membership between PF and LF in at least one species. Understory and terrestrial insectivores were the most sensitive ecological groups (with most species missing in LF), as also observed in the process of forest fragmentation in other parts of the Neotropics. Based on the results of this study, I recommend the following procedures to minimize adverse effects of selective logging on bird communities in the Atlantic forest: (1) logged areas should be close enough to unfragmented, unlogged forests to allow recolonization of some species, (2) the exploitation of the forest should be carried out using as few roads and as little mechanized equipment as possible, and (3) long-term rotation should be used in areas designed for logging to allow time for forest regeneration. /// No presente estudo investiguei os efeitos do corte seletivo de espcies arbreas sobre uma comunidade de aves da Mata Atlntica, nas proximidades de Sete Barras, SP, Brasil. Um levantamento quantitativo de avifauna foi efetuado numa mata inexplorada (PF) e outra explorada por madereiros e palmiteiros (LF). Apesar da maior parte dos parmetros estruturais da vegetao sofrer reduo na LF, os padres de riqueza e diversidade das comunidades de aves diferiram pouco entre os dois tipos de mata estudados. A composio da avifauna, por outro lado, foi bastante alterada na LF. A composio dos grupos ecolgicos da avifauna alterou-se pouco de um modo geral entre as matas, mas na maioria dos grupos pelo menos uma espcie foi prejudicada pelo corte seletivo. Espcies insetvoras de subosque e de solo compe o perfil ecolgico mais ameaado da avifauna, repetindo o mesmo padro de grupos ecolgicos mais prejudicados pela fragmentao florestal. So feitas as seguintes recomendaes a mtodos de retirada seletiva de madeira, no sentido de serem menos danosos a comunidades de aves florestais da Mata Atlntica: (1) manter a maior proximidade possvel entre matas exploradas e no exploradas e contnuas, (2) aplicar prticas exploratrias que utilizem o menor nmero possvel de vias de acesso e que reduzam a explorao mecanizada (arraste e transporte das toras) ao estritamente necessrio e (3) estabelecer rodzio nas reas a serem exploradas. 
10.2307/1370427| We studied plumage patterns of known-sex nestling and juvenile Short-eared Owls (Asio flammeus) to develop a sexing technique for nestlings in the field. Markings on the secondaries varied according to sex, and differences were apparent from about 10-15 days of age. We also provide aging formulas based on mass for nestlings up to 15 days of age and on wing length for nestlings older than that age. Finally, we evaluate growth parameters according to sex. The asymptotes of body mass, wing length, and tarsus length growth curves were higher in females than males. The inflextion point was attained earlier by males than by females. /// Hemos analizado los patrones de plumaje de pollos y jovenes de Lechuza Campestre (Asio flammeus) de sexo conocido, para determinar criterios que permitan sexar los pollos en el campo. La coloracin de las secundarias difiere entre los dos sexos, y las diferencias son visibles a partir de los 10-15 das de edad. Proporcionamos tambin frmulas que permiten calcular la edad de los pollos; los mejores estimadores de la edad son el peso hasta los 15 das, y la longitud del ala a partir de esa edad. Por ltimo, analizamos los parmetros de crecimiento en funcin del sexo. Las asntotas de las curvas de crecimiento del peso, la longitud del ala y del tarso, son ms elevadas en las hembras que en los machos. El punto de inflexin se alcanza antes en los machos que en las hembras. 
10.2307/1367369|In forests and nearby second growth at Manaus, Brazil, Black-banded Woodcreepers (Dendrocolaptes picumnus) regularly foraged with army ants as well as away from ants. Like ant-following Dendrocolaptes certhia and Hylexetastes perrotii in the same study area, they tended to wait or hitch slowly on vertical thick trunks, then sally to or peck at prey. They were intermediate in dominance status and in use of perches near the ground, where ants flushed most prey. Birds of all three species also foraged high above the ground when the ants sent probes up trees. Sleek-headed (presumed female) Black-banded Woodcreepers supplanted their ruff-headed mates and helped in their disputes with neighboring pairs; one or both birds of a pair sang near roost sites in morning and evening; and pairs trespassed to a limited extent on their neighbors' areas. Large young were out of the nest with parents as early as July and as late as January, then wandered away from them. Breeding birds molted at about the time young left. At other study sites, the related species D. hoffmannsi and D. platyrostris behaved like D. picumnus.
10.1525/cond.2011.100103|Knowing the extent to which the acoustic structure of songs is temporally stable is essential to understanding how cultural evolution affects song dialects in oscines. The acoustic structure of the most prevalent variant of the flight-whistle song recorded from male Brown-headed Cowbirds (
10.2307/1369941|In the Thick-billed Murre Uria lomvia, an Arctic seabird that raises a single chick annually, late-hatched chicks often grow slowly and depart the nest lighter in mass than early-hatched chicks. At Coats Island, N.W.T., Canada, in 1994 and 1995, I examined whether the seasonal declines in growth were caused by timing of breeding (the "seasonal deterioration" hypothesis), or by late breeding of less capable pairs (the "parent quality" hypothesis). I removed the single egg from early-breeding pairs, inducing them to relay, and compared the growth of chicks from these replacement eggs to that of chicks of unmanipulated pairs. Growth rate and mass at nest departure correlated negatively with hatching date in the general population. However, in both years the experimental chicks grew as well as the chicks of unmanipulated early-breeding birds, and departed at similar mass. The experimental chicks also grew more quickly than unmanipulated chicks that hatched later in the season, in one of two years. These results support the parent quality hypothesis, but not the seasonal deterioration hypothesis. I suggest that the late breeding of less capable birds is the likely proximate cause of many of the seasonal declines in success reported frequently in the Alcidae.
10.2307/1370473| The Puerto Rican Vireo (Vireo latimeri) is a single-island endemic resident on Puerto Rico. The Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis), a generalist brood parasite native to South America, arrived on the island in 1955 and has established itself as a breeding resident. To determine the impact of the exotic cowbird on vireo reproductive success, I studied the demography of marked Puerto Rican Vireos in Gunica Forest, Puerto Rico, in 1990-1993. Vireo breeding season length varied among years (69-106 days), apparently influenced by rainfall. The primary causes of reproductive failure were nest parasitism and nest predation. Cowbirds parasitized 73-83% of vireo nests. Parasitism reduced the number of vireos fledged per successful nest by 82%, primarily through decreased hatching success and fledging success. Vireos did not abandon nests in response to cowbird egg-laying, but frequently deserted if cowbirds removed host eggs. Native avian predators and exotic mammalian predators together caused the demise of about 70% of all nest attempts. As a result, daily nest survival rate was low (0.93  0.01), and only 13-19% of nests fledged vireo or cowbird young. Pairs renested after failure and attempted to raise second broods. Females in this population attempted two to six nests per season and fledged an average of 1.33 vireos in 1991 and 0.24 vireos in 1993. The combination of restricted breeding season, high predation and parasitism rates, large impact of parasitism on reproductive output, and low seasonal fecundity of females suggests that, despite high survival rates, the Puerto Rican Vireo is in danger of extirpation from portions of its range. 
4096491| I investigated the relationship of plumage to age and sex in the Lance-tailed Manakin (Pipridae, Chiroxiphia lanceolata) in the lowlands of western Panama from 1999-2004. I captured birds in mist nets, categorized their plumages, examined them for molt, and followed them for several years to document plumage changes. Male Lance-tailed Manakins exhibited three distinct postjuvenal plumages. Males achieved definitive adult plumage through sequential changes that occurred in the same order as in other Chiroxiphia manakins. Definitive male plumage developed over the same time span as reported for C. caudata but one year faster than C. linearis. Juvenal male plumage was similar to that of females, and 5% of 226 females had plumage similar to formative male plumage. Genetic sexing verified that changes observed late in the formative male plumage unambiguously identified sex and age of individual birds. This information can be used in behavioral studies to identify the age of male Lance-tailed Manakins captured in any of the predefinitive plumage stages. /// Investigu la relacin entre el plumaje, la edad y el sexo en Chiroxiphia lanceolata (Pipridae) en el oeste de Panam entre 1999 y 2004. Captur aves con redes, clasifiqu sus plumajes, examin la muda del plumaje y los observ durante algunos aos para documentar cambios en su plumaje. Los machos presentaron tres plumajes post-juveniles distintos. Los machos alcanzan el plumaje definitive adulto mediante cambios secuenciales que ocurren en el mismo orden en otros saltarines del gnero Chiroxiphia. El plumaje definitive se desarroll en el mismo tiempo que en C. caudata, pero un ao ms rpido que en C. linearis. El plumaje de los machos juveniles fue similar al de las hembras, y el 5% de 226 hembras present un plumaje parecido al plumaje formativo de los machos. Por medio de anlisis genticos de identificacin de sexos, verifiqu que los cambios tardos observados en el plumaje formativo de los machos permitieron identificar el sexo y la edad de los individuos sin ambigedades. Esta informacin puede ser usada en estudios de comportamiento para identificar la edad de los machos con cualquier plumaje predefinitivo. 
4096512| We used data from two oak-woodland sites in California to develop guidelines for the design of bird monitoring programs using point counts. We used power analysis to determine sample size adequacy when varying the number of visits, count stations, and years for examining trends in abundance. We assumed an overdispersed Poisson distribution for count data, with overdispersion attributed to observer variability, and used Poisson regression for analysis of population trends. Overdispersion had a large, negative effect on power. The number of sampling years also had an especially large effect on power. In all cases, 10 years of sampling were insufficient to detect a decline in abundance of 30% over 10 years. Increasing the sampling period to 20 years provided adequate power for 56% of breeding species at one site. The number of count stations needed for detecting trends for a given species depended primarily on observer variability. If observer variability was high, increasing the number of years and visits was a better approach than increasing the number of stations. Increasing the number of stations was most beneficial for species with low abundance or low observer variability. When the number of stations is limited by the size of the area, we recommend multiple visits to stations. For most species, multiple visits per year (six or more) for 15-20 years were needed to detect a 30% decreasing trend in 10 years with adequate power. We suggest potentially useful focal species for monitoring, such as keystone species like the Acorn Woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus). /// Usamos datos de dos sitios ubicados en bosques de encino en California, con el fin de desarrollar una gua para disear programas de monitoreo usando conteos puntuales. Usamos un anlisis del poder de la prueba para determinar el tamao adecuado de la muestra al cambiar el nmero de visitas, el nmero de estaciones de conteo y los aos de conteo con el fin de examinar las tendencias en la abundancia. Supusimos la distribucin de Poisson para el conteo, con sobredispersin atribuida a la variabilidad del observador. La sobredispersin tuvo un efecto fuerte y negativo en el poder de la prueba. El efecto del nmero de aos de muestreo fue especialmente grande sobre el poder. En cada caso, 10 aos de muestreo fueron insuficientes para detectar una disminucin de la abundancia del 30% en 10 aos. Al aumentar el perodo de muestreo a 20 aos, el anlisis proporcion un poder adecuado para 56% de las especies reproductivas en uno de los sitios. El nmero de estaciones de conteo requeridos para una especie dada dependi principalmente de la variabilidad del observador. Si la variabilidad del observador era alta, aumentar el nmero de aos de observacin y visitas fue una estrategia mejor que aumentar el n mero de estaciones. Aumentar el nmero de estaciones fue ms benfico para especies poco abundantes o con baja variabilidad del observador. Cuando el nmero de estaciones es limitado por el tamao del rea, recomendamos visitas mltiples a las estaciones. Para la mayora de las especies se requieren visitas anuales mltiples (6 o ms) durante 15-20 aos para detectar una tendencia de decrecimiento a una razn del 30% en 10 aos con un poder adecuado. Sugerimos especies focales potencialmente tiles para monitoreo tales como la especie clave Melanerpes formicivorus. 
10.2307/1368391|We compare the molt and migration schedules of Baltimore (Icterus g. galbula) and Bullock's (I. g. bullockii) orioles, describe how bullockii and Black-backed Orioles (I. g. abeillei) in juvenile plumage can be distinguished, and present a simple quantitative character that serves to distinguish the juvenile and basic plumages of bullockii. Galbula undergoes the first and later prebasic molts on the breeding grounds, while bullockii in both juvenile and worn breeding plumage almost certainly migrate to the American southwest prior to undertaking the fall molts. This early migration by bullockii has probably been favored as a mechanism for them to escape the dry late summer conditions that prevail in most of their breeding range and to exploit for molting the food flush caused by the late summer monsoon rains in the southwest. With but one exception, every bullockii specimen taken in late summer or fall south of the breeding range in Mexico was in fresh basic plumage. Thus, the fall migration of bullockii may be interrupted for the prebasic molts. Bullockii almost entirely lacks a prealternate molt in all sex and age classes. The prealternate molt in galbula is fairly extensive in first-year males but limited in females and in older males. First year galbula males initiate this molt in their throat in early winter, perhaps to acquire a badge that helps distinguish them from first-year females, which have light throats, and from those older females that have light throats. Some galbula males that are almost a year old also undergo part of the prealternate molt after their arrival on the breeding grounds. Implications of these observations for theories of subadult plumages are discussed. These differences between galbula and bullockii in the timing of the fall molts relative to the fall migration and in having or not having a prealternate molt may provide strong sources of selection against hybrids. One specimen illustrating some of the potentially deleterious recombinations of molt and migration schedules among hybrids is described in detail.
4096537| Because systematic studies based on morphology have failed to fully resolve phylogenetic relationships of shanks (Charadriiformes: Scolopacidae), we obtained mitochondrial DNA (6349 bp) and nuclear DNA (1315 bp) sequences from 15 taxa. Using maximum parsimony and Bayesian analysis we show that Catoptrophorus and Heteroscelus are embedded within Tringa, and thus these genera should be merged in Tringa. Phylogenetic analyses of 18 morphological characters resulted in a partly resolved tree, so we mapped them on the molecular phylogeny and reconstructed ancestral states by maximum likelihood. Twelve of the morphological characters are homoplastic or plesiomorphic, and only six are phylogenetically informative, placing Xenus and Actitis outside the remaining genera. The bright yellow and red leg coloration of yellowlegs and redshanks are, respectively, a retained ancestral state and a parallel acquisition. Using a semi-parametric penalized-likelihood approach to correct for rate variation among lineages we estimated that speciation occurred in the Early Miocene-Pliocene. /// Debido a que los estudios de sistemtica basados en la morfologa no resuelven completamente las relaciones filogenticas de los Charadriformes (Scolopacidae), obtuvimos secuencias de ADN mitocondrial (6349 bp) y nuclear (1315 bp) para 15 especies. Con base en anlisis de mxima parsimonia y Bayesianos demostramos que Catoptrophorus y Heteroscelus estn contenidos en Tringa, y as estos gneros deben unirse en Tringa. Anlisis filogenticos de 18 caracteres morfolgicos mostraron un rbol parcialmente resuelto, por lo que decidimos rastrearlos en una filogenia molecular usando mxima verosimilitud para reconstruir los estados ancestrales. Doce de los caracteres morfolgicos son homoplsticos o plesiomrficos, y slo seis son filogenticamente informativos, colocando a Xenus y Actitis fuera de los gneros restantes. La coloracin brillante, amarilla y roja de la pierna del gnero Tringa es, respectivamente, un estado ancestral retenido y una adquisicin paralela. Estimamos que la especiacin ocurri a principios del Mioceno y Plioceno usando una aproximacin semi-paramtrica de verosimilitud penalizada para corregir la variacin en la tasa de substitucin del ADN entre los linajes evolutivos. 
10.2307/1366886|Female Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) perform more courtship display in response to large repertoires of song types than in response to small repertoires. This preferential response to large repertoires might be due to a positive correlation between repertoire size and male quality; therefore, females might benefit by responding more strongly to males singing many song types. We tested for such a correlation, using several measures of male quality. We found no evidence that repertoire size is related to male age, dominance status within captive flocks, territory size, date on which males settle on their territories, wing length, or weight. We suggest that adaptive explanations for the evolution of preference for large repertoires in this species are unsupported, and that this preference may be a phyletic holdover.
10.1525/cond.2012.100176|Vegetation structure is important in structuring avian communities. In the sagebrush biome, where continued habitat loss is thought to threaten shrusteppe-obligate birds, both remotely sensed and field-acquired measures of big sagebrush (
10.2307/1367559|An annotated list of the birds found in a privately owned reserve in the subtropical zone on the eastern slope of Colombia's Central Andes is presented. The list is based on our own observations carried out in 1975-1976, and is amplified by discussion of hitherto unreported collections of birds taken nearby by M. A. Carriker, Jr., in the 1950s. Included are distributional, behavioral, and ecological notes on a number of poorly known species. Important range extensions are noted for four species: Hapalopsittaca amazonina, Anthocephala floriceps, Campylorhamphus pucheranii, and Atlapetes flaviceps.
10.2307/1368880|Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) destroyed Yellow-headed Blackbird (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) eggs presented on wren territories and probably disrupted at least 10 of 189 yellowhead nesting attempts. Male yellowheads discriminated among Marsh Wren, Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia), and Common Yellowthroat (Geothlypis trichas) songs, with the greatest proportion of aggressive approaches in response to broadcast Marsh Wren songs. The proportion of aggressive approaches by male yellowheads to Marsh Wren playbacks beside yellowhead nests was 27% and did not change with the stage of the nest; but the proportion of aggressive responses by females did vary, and was highest (53%) in response to playbacks beside nests containing eggs. Male responses are interpreted as reflecting territorial defense against Marsh Wrens, and female responses as a localized nest defense against egg predators.
10.2307/1369219|Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) have a two song repertoire consisting of an alpha song and a beta song. The alpha song consists of distinct introductory notes, followed by a series of interior notes, and ending with a sequence of warbled notes. The beta song has a unique set of introductory notes followed immediately by a series of warbled notes. In this study, observations and experiments were conducted to test the following hypotheses on the functional significance of the Bobolink repertoire: (1) different song types convey different messages; (2) the size of the repertoire is a signal, e.g., of male quality; (3) song switching is a signal of aggressive or sexual motivation; and (4) song matching is a signal to conspecific intruders. Hypothesis 2 was ruled out a priori for Bobolinks because there is no variation in repertoire size in this species. Males did not change their relative use of the two song types with time of the season, or with location in the territory, as might be expected if the different song types and note types convey different messages. Aggressive response by territorial males was equally strong to the two song types, providing further evidence against the separate messages hypothesis. Males did not alter the frequency of switching between song types when presented with caged males or caged females; therefore neither an intrasexual nor an intersexual function of song switching was supported. There was no tendency for males to match the song type of the playback. However, males tended to respond with the opposite song type to that of the playback. This suggests that territorial male Bobolinks may be responding to the song of intruders by singing the alternate song type, a strategy that, in species with a two song repertoire, is functionally identical to song matching.
10.2307/1369467|Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) show behavioral adaptations (food caching, cavity roosting) and can undergo regulated bouts of nocturnal hypothermia, both of which reduce costs associated with wintering in temperate latitudes. These adjustments could reduce the need for the seasonal metabolic adjustments found in other small passerines that must deal with severe winter cold. We have examined this possibility by determining the extent of seasonal variation evident in chickadees concerning standard metabolic rate, metabolic response to temperature, cold resistance, and maximal thermogenic capacity (Vo
10.2307/1368740| We describe age-related differences in return dates in the colonial Purple Martin (Progne subis). Adults 4 years of age returned earlier than Age 3 adults which returned earlier than first-time breeders. Males tended to return slightly earlier than females in birds Age 3 and older. The arrival schedule results from competitive asymmetries over secondary cavity nest sites and predation pressure but not from the timing of reproduction. Older and earlier returning birds select higher nests. Nests located in higher levels suffer significantly less predation from climbing predators. The return dates of mates are not correlated but mated pairs do tend to be similar in age. Egg-laying date is not related to arrival date. Greatly reduced certainty of paternity is correlated with a reduction in reproductive effort in first-time breeding males. The variable subadult plumage in Age 2 males provides for individual recognition, which benefits them in within age-class nest-site competition. 
10.2307/1370079|Predation by Keen's mice (Peromyscus keeni) was the single greatest cause of egg loss for Rhinoceros Auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) at the seabird colony on Triangle Island, British Columbia in 1998. Despite studies suggesting that gape-limited rodents are unable to open large eggs, mouse depredation was likely responsible for the loss of more eggs than all other causes combined, with mice commonly opening and eating eggs of nearly twice their mass. In one study plot, mice depredated up to 34% of eggs. This high predation rate is likely related to temporary egg neglect by foraging parents. We suggest that egg depredation may increase in years of low marine productivity, when adults increase foraging time.
10.2307/1369959|We examined hypothetical relationships between blood parasite infection in Purple Martins Progne subis and extra-pair paternity of males, feeding performance of parents of both sexes, and mate-guarding intensity of males. We found no evidence that infection with either of two parasites, Haemoproteus prognei and an unspecified microfilariad, affected extra-pair paternity. Infected males were no more likely than uninfected males to be cuckolded, and infection did not preclude extrapair fertilization success. Infection also was unrelated to provisioning rates by adult males and females and to mate-guarding intensity by males. However, subadult females provisioned significantly less when infected with Haemoproteus, suggesting that young females have a lower resistance to parasites than adult females, or males.
3247784| We present data on the colonization of Middleton Island, Alaska, by Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) following the creation of an extensive rocky intertidal zone after the Alaskan earthquake of 1964. The first pair of oystercatchers was detected in 1976, and it was another 5 years before the population increased to three pairs. Oystercatcher numbers increased steadily thereafter, with a population explosion occurring in the 1990s. By 2002, there were 171 territorial pairs on the island. The total number of birds increased from two in 1976 to 718 in 2002. Breeding-pair densities on Middleton Island are the highest recorded for any portion of Alaska, averaging more than 5 pairs per km of shoreline in 2002. Nesting success in 2001 and 2002 was greater (83% or more of the eggs laid hatched) than that reported for any other population of oystercatchers in Alaska or along the Pacific Coast. We attribute this exponential growth rate and exceptionally high reproductive success to the large area of available and suiTable habitat, the low number of avian predators and the complete lack of mammalian predators, low rate of nest loss to high tides and storm surges, and a low level of human disturbance. We propose nominating Middleton Island as a regional Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network site because a high percentage of the world's and region's population of Black Oystercatchers resides there during the breeding season. Further, since Middleton Island may be the single most important site in Alaska for Black Oystercatchers, we suggest it be protected from future development. /// Presentamos datos sobre la colonizacin de la Isla Middleton, Alaska, por el Haematopus bachmani, luego de la creacin de una extensa zona intermareal rocosa como resultado del terremoto ocurrido en 1964. La primera pareja de ostreros fue detectada en 1976, y pasaron otros 5 aos antes de que la poblacin aumente a tres parejas. Desde entonces los nmeros de ostreros crecieron constantemente con una explosin de la poblacin ocurrida en los 1990s. En 2002 haba 171 parejas territoriales en la isla. El nmero total de individuos aument de dos en 1976 a 718 en 2002. Las densidades de parejas reproductivas en la Isla Middleton son las ms altas registradas en cualquier lugar de Alaska, promediando ms de 5 parejas por km de costa en 2002. El xito de nidada en 2001 y 2002 fue mayor (83% o ms de los huevos depositados eclosionaron) que el informado para cualquier otra poblacin de ostreros de Alaska o de la costa Pacfica. Atribuimos esta tasa de crecimiento exponencial y el excepcional y alto xito reproductivo, a la gran superficie con hbitat adecuado disponible, al bajo nmero de aves predadoras y a la completa ausencia de mamferos predadores, a la baja tasa de perdida de nidos por mareas altas u oleaje por tormentas, y al bajo grado de disturbio humano. Proponemos la nominacin de la Isla de Middleton como Sitio Regional de la Red Hemisfrica de Reservas para Aves Playeras, dado el elevado porcentaje de la poblacin mundial y regional de ostreros negros que all residen durante la temporada reproductiva. Adems, dado que la Isla Middleton podra ser el sitio ms importante de Alaska para Haematopus bachmani, sugerimos que debera ser protegida del desarrollo en el futuro. 
10.2307/1370495|A 474 base pair segment of the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 (ND6) mitochondrial gene was sequenced for four cuckoo species (family Cuculidae). To assess the potential of this little-studied gene for intra- and interspecific genetic analyses, we examined sequence variation between (1) individuals from sympatric populations of the Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus canorus) collected in Great Britain, (2) two subspecies of Common Cuckoo (C. c. canorus and C. c. telephonus) collected at the geographical extremes of this species' range, and (3) four representative Cuculids: the Common Cuckoo, the Rusty-breasted Cuckoo (Cacomantis sepulcralis), the Fan-tailed Cuckoo (Cacomantis flabelliformis), and Klaas's Cuckoo (Chrysococcyx klaas). Although we found little genetic divergence at the intraspecific level, the substantial amount of interspecific sequence variation indicated that ND6 may be most useful in resolving evolutionary relationships between cuckoo species rather than within species.
10.2307/1370419| I studied the lek organization and courtship displays of the Orange-crowned Manakin (Heterocercus aurantiivertex) in undisturbed, lowland rain forest in northeastern Peru. The majority of leks were in seasonally flooded or swampy forest, and most were situated around the borders of old ox-bow lakes. Males maintain loosely packed courts inside exploded leks or "quasi leks," which may extend for more than 1 km. Within leks, males vocalize throughout the day and occasionally perform two distinctly different solitary displays. One is a spectacular aerial performance that begins above the canopy. The "log display" is performed just above ground- or water-level and consists of a series of short, ritualized jumps. /// La organizacin del lek y las exhibiciones del cortejo nupcial del Saltarn de Cresta Naranja (Heterocercus aurantiivertex) fueron estudiadas en selva virgen lluviosa del nororiente peruano. La mayora de los leks estaban en bosque estacionalmente inundable o bosque pantanoso, localizados por lo comn en las orillas de lagos fluviales antiguos. Los machos defienden "arenas" bastante dispersas, dentro de leks disgregados o "quasi leks," que pueden alcanzar ms de 1 km de extensin. Dentro de los leks, los machos vocalizan durante todo el da y ocasionalmente ejecutan en solitario dos exhibiciones nupciales claramente diferenciadas. Una es una espectacular exhibicin area que empieza sobre el dosel del bosque. La otra exhibicin, terrestre, es ejecutada a poca altura sobre el suelo o el agua, y consiste en una serie de saltos cortos y ritualizados. 
10.2307/1368605|The increase in body weight, and of tarsal, culmen, wing and tail lengths in nestlings of the Great Spotted Cuckoo (Clamator glandarius) and of its host, the Magpie (Pica pica), was studied in the "Hoya de Guadix" (southern Spain). The effect of parasitism on the growth of host nestlings was also analyzed. Great Spotted Cuckoo nestlings grew faster than Magpie nestlings in unparasitized and in parasitized nests. There is some evidence that the size of the host species did not influence the growth rate of parasite nestlings. When more than one parasite chick was raised in the same nest, competition for food was strong and the younger nestling starved. Magpie chicks had a larger weight asymptote and reached 90% of the asymptotic value earlier in unparasitized nests than in parasitized ones.
1370039| An earlier study failed to find dialects in the songs of male Gambel's White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) in Alaska. We recorded songs of males at five localities over a much greater portion of the subspecies' range, spanning 2250 km east to west and 1650 km north to south. On this scale, distinct geographical variants are evident, based on the song's terminal phrase and the fine details of other phrases. In White-crowned Sparrows, the extent of dialects is apparently positively correlated with the distance migrated by the subspecies; a demographic variable such as survivorship or natal philopatry likely results in this link. /// Un estudio anterior no encontr dialectos en los cantos de machos de Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii en Alaska. Nosotros grabamos cantos en cinco localidades a travs de un rea de 2250 km este-oeste por 1650 km norte-sur, que abarca una gran parte del rea de distribucin de la subespecie. A esta escala, es evidente una clara variacin geogrfica, basada en la parte terminal de los cantos, y en detalles de las otras frases. En esta especie, la extension geogrfica de los dialectos aparentemente est correlacionada de manera positiva con la distancia de migracin de las subespecies. Esta correlacin tal vez sea producto de factores demogrficos como la supervivencia o de filopatra. 
10.2307/1370457|We studied reuse of nesting scrapes within breeding seasons by Kentish Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) in an inland lake of southern Spain over six years. Overall, 5.6% of original nests were reused at least once. We tested whether nest reuse is adaptive, but found no differences in breeding success between those pairs that reused nests and those that did not. We also tested whether nest reuse should be more frequent when scrapes are difficult to excavate than when it is easier to excavate them, and found that nests on hard substrates were more frequently reused than nests on soft substrates, and that nest reuse was more frequent in the second half of the season, when the nesting substrate is harder, than in the first half of the season. This suggests that nest reuse may save Kentish Plovers some energy.
10.2307/1369065|Chick-a-dee calls of the Mexican Chickadee (Parus sclateri) are composed of combinations of three common note types (A, C and D) and one very rare type (B). Calls have the invariant sequence of notes A-B-C-D, where any note type may be omitted, given once or repeated a variable number of times before transiting to the next type. The B and C notes are phonologically similar to the B and C notes of chick-a-dee calls of the Black-capped Chickadee (P. atricapillus), but the A note is markedly different and the D note somewhat different from equivalent notes of the congener. A total of 2,071 calls recorded yielded 60 different call types, and Zipf-Mandelbrot plots show that the call system is "open"; as the sample size is increased new call types will be found without demonstrable bound. In relatively undisturbed contexts (with mate on territory, in fall flocks, alone in fall) birds gave mainly [A][D] calls with lesser numbers of [A] and [C] calls, where brackets indicate variable repetition of note types. In disturbed contexts (mobbing plastic Great Horned Owl, mobbing speaker playing calls of the Northern Pygmy-Owl, observer sitting under the nest cavity) the birds gave more [C] calls with [A][C] as well. In the longest mobbing session to owl calls, birds gave mainly [A] calls when approaching, switched to [C] calls while flying about the speaker, and then resumed [A] calls and moved off when the playback was stopped. Outside of human language, this is the second truly combinatorial system of vocal communication found in animals, the first being chick-a-dee calls of the Black-capped Chickadee. This study provides the first data substantiating quantitative differences in calls from different contexts, an important step toward understanding what kinds of information combinatorial chick-a-dee calls encode.
10.2307/1369041|We tested the hypothesis that male-like coloration of female birds increases the risk of nest predation in a sexually dimorphic songbird, the Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina). Female Hooded Warblers vary greatly in the extent of the black hood, ranging from no black in yearlings to an almost complete black hood in some older females. However, the frequency of nest predation did not vary significantly with extent of male-like plumage during the egg stage, nestling stage, or over all nest stages. In addition, yearling females whose crown and throat was dyed black did not suffer a higher nest predation rate than unmanipulated and control yearlings. We found no evidence that breeding experience of yearling versus older females affects nest predation rate. In addition, yearling females did not tend to build more visually conspicuous nests. These results strongly suggest that predators did not use conspicuous plumage coloration as a cue for locating nests.
4122501| Larger birds are generally more strongly affected by habitat loss and fragmentation than are smaller ones because they require more resources and thus larger habitat patches. Consequently, conservation actions often favor the creation or protection of larger over smaller patches. However, in grassland systems the boundaries between a patch and the surrounding landscape, and thus the perceived size of a patch, can be indistinct. We investigated whether eight grassland bird species with different body sizes perceived variation in patch size and landscape structure in a consistent manner. Data were collected from surveys conducted in 44 patches of northern tallgrass prairie during 1998-2001. The response to patch size was very similar among species regardless of body size (density was little affected by patch size), except in the Greater Prairie-Chicken (Tympanuchus cupido), which showed a threshold effect and was not found in patches smaller than 140 ha. In landscapes containing 0%-30% woody vegetation, smaller species responded more negatively to increases in the percentage of woody vegetation than larger species, but above an apparent threshold of 30%, larger species were not detected. Further analyses revealed that the observed variation in responses to patch size and landscape structure among species was not solely due to body size per se, but to other differences among species. These results indicate that a stringent application of concepts requiring larger habitat patches for larger species appears to limit the number of grassland habitats that can be protected and may not always be the most effective conservation strategy. /// Las aves de gran tamao generalmente se ven ms afectadas por la prdida del hbitat y la fragmentacin que las aves ms pequeas debido a que las aves ms grandes requieren una mayor cantidad de recursos y por lo tanto parches de hbitat de mayor tamao. Consecuentemente, las acciones de conservacin generalmente han favorecido la creacin o proteccin de parches de gran tamao ante la proteccin de parches ms pequeos. Sin embargo, en sistemas de pastizales los bordes entre un parche y el paisaje que lo rodea, y por lo tanto el rea percibida del parche, pueden ser difciles de distinguir. Investigamos si ocho especies de aves de pastizal que difieren en tamao corporal percibieron una variacion en el tamao de los parches y la estructura del paisaje de una manera constante. Los datos fueron recolectados a partir de muestreos realizados en 44 parches de pradera de pastizal alto del norte entre 1998 y 2001. La respuesta al tamao del parche fue muy similar entre especies independientemente de su tamao corporal (la densidad fue afectada muy poco por el tamao del parche), excepto para Tympanuchus cupido, que mostr un efecto umbral: esta especie no fue encontrada en parches de reas menores a 140 ha. En paisajes que contenan entre un 0% y un 30% de vegetacin leosa, las especies de menor tamao respondieron de manera ms negativa al aumento del porcentaje de la vegetacin leosa que las especies de mayor tamao, pero aparentemente por encima de un umbral del 30%, las especies de mayor tamao no fueron detectadas. Otros anlisis revelaron que la variacin observada entre especies en las respuestas al tamao del parche y la estructura del paisaje no se debi solamente al tamao corporal per se, sino que tambin a otras diferencias entre especies. Estos resultados indican que la aplicacin rigurosa de los conceptos que requieren parches de gran tamao para las especies ms grandes parece limitar el nmero de hbitats de pastizal que pueden ser protegidos, y en muchos casos sta puede no ser la estrategia de conservacin ms efectiva. 
3247779|Understanding movements of individual birds between breeding sites (breeding dispersal) or between natal sites and the site of first breeding (natal dispersal) is crucial to the modeling of population dynamics. Unfortunately, these aspects of demography are poorly understood for avian species in general, and for migratory songbirds in particular. This is because it is often impossible to sample broadly enough to relocate marked birds that have moved. We used stable-hydrogen (D) and carbon (<sup>13</sup>C) isotope analyses of the feathers of 139 American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) and 193 Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) to evaluate evidence for individuals molting feathers at locations other than their breeding sites from the previous year. We sampled outer rectrices from breeding populations at three extensive boreal forest sites (Prince Albert National Park and Duck Mountain, Saskatchewan, and Lac La Biche, Alberta) and at three isolated forest tracts (Cypress Hills, and Moose Mountain, Saskatchewan, and Turtle Mountain, Manitoba) in western Canada. Based on outlier analysis of D measurements, we found evidence for long-distance dispersal ranging from 0-29% of individuals. For both species, second-year birds had higher variance in D values suggesting they had a higher probability of originating from elsewhere compared to after-second-year birds. /// Entender los movimientos de aves individuales entre sitios de cri (dispersion reproductiva) o entre el sitio de nacimiento y el sitio del primer evento reproductivo (dispersion natal) es crucial para modelar la dinamica de poblaciones. Desafortunadamente, estos aspectos demograficos estan poco entendidos para las especies de aves en general y para las aves canoras migratorias en particular. Esto se debe a que es usualmente imposible realizar muestreos lo suficientemente amplios como para relocalizar a las aves marcadas que se desplazaron. Usamos analisis de isotopos estables de hidrogeno (D) y carbono (<sup>13</sup>C) de las plumas de 139 individuos de Setophaga ruticilla y de 193 individuos de Seiurus aurocapillus para evaluar la presencia de individuos que han mudado sus plumas en localidades distintas a las de sus sitios reproductivos del ano anterior. Muestreamos las rectrices externas en poblaciones reproductivas de tres sitios extensos de bosque boreal (Parque Nacional Prince Albert y Duck Mountain, Saskatchewan, y Lago La Biche, Alberta) y de tres parches de bosque aislados (Cypress Hills y Moose Mountain, Saskatchewan, y Turtle Mountain, Manitoba) en el oeste de Canada. Basados en analisis de datos extremos (outliers) de medidas de D, encontramos evidencia de dispersion de larga distancia que comprendio entre el 0-29% de los individuos. Para ambas especies, las aves del segundo ano de vida presentaron mayor varianza en los valores de D, sugiriendo que poseen una mayor probabilidad de haberse originado en algun otro lugar comparado con aves de mas de dos anos de vida.
10.2307/1368570|Habitat use by Song (Melospiza melodia) and Swamp (M. georgiana) sparrows was studied along 1.2 km of contact between the species in northwestern Pennsylvania. The two species had only narrowly overlapping territories (4 to 5%). Several lines of evidence suggest that the opposite response of territorial sparrows to the presence of surface water accounts for this spatial segregation. The presence or absence of water was a nearly perfect predictor of which species was defending a particular area (95% correct), whereas a stepwise discriminant function based on 10 vegetative variables categorized the territories by species with only 74% accuracy. An area drained of water by the destruction of a beaver dam changed from containing five Swamp Sparrow territories to supporting five partial Song Sparrow territories; local densities of the two species were otherwise similar. During record rainfall and flooding in June of the second year of the study, male Swamp Sparrows were opportunistically defending newly developed flooded areas. Aggression between the species was not common and males did not respond to playbacks of heterospecific songs. These observations suggest that major changes in habitat distribution can occur through a change in response to a single habitat cue. The later arriving Swamp Sparrows are smaller and socially subordinate to Song Sparrows. Song Sparrows settle on dry territories leaving the wetlands to the Swamp Sparrows.
10.1525/cond.2010.090117|Kleptoparasitism is defined as the stealing by one animal of food that has been caught by another. It is a well-known foraging tactic used opportunistically by many seabirds. Our study describes qualitatively and quantitatively kleptoparasitism of gulls on terns and compares the effect of prey quality (prey type and size) and environmental conditions (tide, wind direction and intensity) triggering such behavior. The rate of kleptoparasitism by Kelp Gulls (
10.2307/1370491|The woodpecker drum is unusual among avian acoustic display because woodpeckers employ material outside their own bodies to produce sound. This allows an opportunity for acoustic analysis of instruments used for drumming that is not possible with other types of acoustic display. Examination of the drum sites of Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus varius) revealed that sapsuckers do not use drumming to advertise the presence of nesting and feeding sites in their environment. Controlled hits on a variety of substrates in the sapsuckers' environment were used to compare acoustic properties of spots chosen for drumming to other non-drum spots. In general, sapsuckers drummed in locations that could produce louder and longer lasting sounds than surrounding non-drum substrate including nest trees, feeding trees, and other substrate near the site of drumming. My evidence suggests that sapsucker drumming is an acoustic signal designed for long distance transmission.
10.2307/1370139|From 1992-1995 we studied the winter ecology of Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) in Colorado. Hawks spent 84% of the daylight interval perching. Time-budgets indicated that on average hawks perched 18 times day<sup>-1</sup> (range 3-50), with perches averaging 30 min in duration. Diurnal perching was in trees, on poles, and on the ground. Utility poles and other human-made structures were used more than ground and deciduous tree perches. Tree perches were used for the longest mean duration. The mean daily Minimum Convex Polygon (MCP) home range of 36 hawks was 3.53 km<sup>2</sup>. The black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) was the most important prey species, and extant prairie dog colonies characterized winter habitat for Ferruginous Hawks.
10.1525/cond.2009.080025|Fall arrival is an important period in the life history of migratory birds because processes during this period determine where birds spend the winter, which is linked to subsequent survival and condition at the time of spring migration. Henslow's Sparrows (
1369683|Arctic Terns (Sterna paradisaea) and Common Terns (S. hirundo) are similar in many aspects of their breeding ecology, but Common Terns generally lay three eggs per clutch whereas Arctic Terns lay two. In our study, Common Terns had a higher rate of food delivery and energy supply to the nest and higher nest attendance, indicating that they made trips of shorter average duration. This suggests that the number of chicks raised by these two species was primarily limited by the rate at which parents could supply food. However, estimated daily metabolizable energy intake of chicks was about 30% higher in Common Terns than in Arctic Terns. Common Tern chicks apparently spent a higher proportion of daily energy intake on maintenance of body temperature. It remains unknown whether this difference was because Common Tern parents could not brood three chicks as effectively as Arctic Terns brooded two or because the energy requirements for heat production in the third-hatched Common Tern chick were particularly high. If brooding did play a less important role in the energy budgets of Common Terns, the number of chicks that Arctic Terns could raise may have been limited not only by the rate at which parents could supply food to the nest but also by the requirements of chicks for brooding. We suggest that more detailed studies on the role of brooding constraints in limiting brood size in these species are required to clarify this matter.
10.2307/1369643|Predation caused 78% of nest failures in coastal forests of southeast Alaska and interior forests of adjacent Canada. Nest success tended to be better in coastal than interior forests. Mayfield daily nest survival from predation on open-cup nests was higher in egg than nestling phase for most species. Species building large (thrush-sized) nests had lower Mayfield daily survival from predation than species building smaller (warbler-sized) nests, but there was no difference in daily survival (total and from predation only) among species nesting in different vegetation strata. Nesting success differed little with nest cover or nest site diversity for most species. Total nest success within species was only sometimes higher in commonly used nest sites than in less frequently used sites. Nest survival from predation did not generally decrease with increasing nest density within guilds of species with similar nests or with nest-site similarity. We emphasize the likelihood of varied outcomes of natural selection on nest-site selection in differing circumstances.
10.2307/1369155|Seasonal acclimatization in small passerine birds is primarily a metabolic process, yet the physiological mechanism is incompletely understood. This study draws on both original and previously published data to examine physiological characteristics associated with seasonal acclimatization in House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) from southern California (CA), Colorado (CO), and Michigan (MI). House Finches from MI and CO demonstrate metabolic seasonal acclimatization that is not found in CA birds. The MI and CO birds show seasonal fattening and greater standard metabolic rates than CA individuals. Results from body composition analyses and enzyme activity determinations suggest that seasonal changes in fat stores and catabolic capacity are associated with acclimatization in both CO and MI birds. However, the seasonal patterns of several other physiological parameters reveal differences between MI and CO populations. For instance, the magnitude of winter fattening is much greater in MI than CO birds, and MI House Finches show seasonal changes in peak metabolic rate and lean mass that are absent in CO individuals. These findings indicate that MI birds, in the introduced eastern distribution, and CO birds, in the original western distribution, may employ different physiological mechanisms for seasonal acclimatization. Alternatively, the differences between MI and CO birds may reflect direct or indirect responses to the markedly different altitudes of the locations. The results from this study reinforce the potential dangers of extrapolating findings from single populations to a larger scale in widely distributed species.
40072396|Passerine birds are commonly the subjects of studies of sexual size dimorphism. Yet, save for secondary sexual characters, passerine sexual dimorphism is commonly treated as a mere size difference without regard to its shape distribution. Using principal components analysis (PCA) to generate estimates of relative size and reduced major axis (RMA) regression to test for isometry, I analyzed 19 skeletal measurements from 31 socially monogamous passerines of 15 genera. Dimorphism does not scale isometrically within the skeleton. Most sexual size dimorphism resides in the pectoral girdle and wing in the Savannah Sparrow (
10.1525/cond.2011.090224|We used satellite telemetry to investigate the migration patterns and wintering areas of Glaucous-winged Gulls (
3247782| To study the patterns and determinants of philopatry and breeding dispersal in the Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) we analyzed the records of 356 males and 1459 females captured in more than one breeding year around Ithaca, New York. Of these captures, only 4% of male and 14% of female breeders dispersed to a new site for breeding. With our combination of intensive study areas in Tompkins County, New York, and the efforts of volunteer banders throughout New York and surrounding states, we could have detected dispersal in excess of 400 km from the initial breeding site. Randomization tests revealed, however, that breeders dispersed much shorter distances than they could have been detected. Detailed analyses of recaptures in Tompkins County showed that over a 22-km range of distances, the chances of dispersal to a new breeding site declined with the distance from the original breeding site. Females that failed to fledge any offspring were much more likely to disperse than females that reproduced successfully, and the probability of dispersal declined gradually with female age. The spatial scale in which swallows gather and process information appears to be much larger than for passerines that defend all-purpose territories. /// Para estudiar los patrones y los determinantes de la filopatra y la dispersin reproductiva en Tachycineta bicolor analizamos los registros de 356 machos y 1459 hembras capturados en ms de un ao reproductivo en los alrededores de Ithaca, New York. De estas capturas, slo el 4% de los machos y el 14% de las hembras reproductivas se dispersaron a un nuevo sitio de cra. Con nuestra combinacin de reas de estudio intensivas en el Condado de Tompkins, New York, y los esfuerzos de colaboradores voluntarios que anillaron aves a lo largo de New York y los estados circundantes, pudimos haber detectado eventos de dispersin a ms de 400 km desde el sitio de cra inicial. Exmenes aleatorizados revelaron, sin embargo, que las aves reproductivas se dispersaron a distancias mucho ms cortas que las que se podran haber detectado. Anlisis detallados de recapturas en el Condado de Tompkins mostraron que en un rango de distancias de 22 km, las probabilidades de dispersin a un nuevo sitio de cra disminuyeron con la distancia desde el sitio de cra original. Las hembras que fracasaron en la cra de pichones presentaron una probabilidad de dispersarse mucho mayor que las hembras que se reprodujeron exitosamente, y la probabilidad de dispersin disminuy gradualmente con la edad de la hembra. La escala espacial a la que T. bicolor recoge y procesa informacin parece ser mucho ms grande que la de aves paserinas que defienden territorios de uso mltiple. 
4151069| We used capture-mark-recapture data to assess winter philopatry by Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in Prince William Sound, Alaska, during winters 1995-1997 and 2000-2001. Philopatry was quantified using homing rates, which were estimated as the proportion of birds recaptured at their original site out of all recaptured birds. Between-year homing rates of 0.95 (95%CI: 0.87-1.00) and 1.00 (0.92-1.00) were estimated for females and males, respectively, at three locations on Montague Island. Similar homing rates were measured in western Prince William Sound, where estimates were 0.92 (0.80-0.98) for females and 0.96 (0.79-1.00) for males, with a scale of detected movements for all recapture birds ranging from 3-52 km. Our results indicate that wintering aggregations may be demographically independent at a much finer spatial scale than genetic data indicate, and that conservation efforts should recognize this degree of demographic separation among population segments. /// Utilizamos datos de marcaje y recaptura para determinar la filopatra de Histrionicus histrionicus en Prince William Sound, Alaska, durante los inviernos de 1995-1997 y 2000-2001. La filopatra fue cuantificada utilizando la tasa de retorno, estimada a partir de la proporcin del total de ayes capturadas que se recapturaron en su sitio original. Las tasas de retorno entre aos, estimadas en tres localidades en la isla Montague, fueron de 0.95 (95% IC: 0.87-1.00) y 1.00 (0.92-1.00) para hembras y machos, respectivamente. En Prince William Sound se midieron tasas de retorno similares, donde las estimaciones fueron 0.92 (0.80-0.98) para las hembras y 0.96 (0.79-1.00) para los machos, y para todas las ayes recapturadas se detect una escala de movimiento entre 3 y 52 km. Nuestros resultados indican que las agrupaciones de invierno pueden ser demogrflcamente independientes a una escala espacial mucho ms fina de lo que los datos genticos indican, y que los esfuerzos de conservacin deberan reconocer este grado de separacin demogrflea entre segmentos de poblaciones. 
10.2307/1367209|We studied local variation in size of social units in the Gray-breasted (or Mexican) Jay (Aphelocoma ultramarina) throughout its elevation range in the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona. At its lower limit (1,463 m), the ecological distribution of the species ended where oaks became rare, even though other large trees were present. The upper limit of distribution (2,103 m) coincided with the beginning of the area occupied by Steller's Jays (Cyanocitta stelleri), and not with a decrease in the number of species of Quercus or the availability of mast. Size among social units varied locally at all elevations. Unit size was not correlated with elevation. We studied yearly variation in a small number of units over 15 years. Mean size of these groups varied from 6.7 to 17.5 individuals. Although group size was highly variable in space and time, our findings reaffirm reports from the Santa Rita Mountains that group size in the Arizona population of this species tends to be unusually large compared to that of other communally breeding birds. The number of juveniles per flock in August was positively correlated with group size in May. Along the canyon bottom, we estimated the linear density of the population in May at 1.7 flocks/km or 16.7 jays/km.
1369836| Spawning salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) greatly influence many biotic processes in both the aquatic and terrestrial components of riparian systems, possibly including the community of breeding birds. In southeastern Alaska in 1996-1997, the riparian forests bordering salmon streams supported, on average, higher densities, but not diversity, of forest passerines compared to non-salmon streams. The presence of salmon in the fall increases the abundance of terrestrial and aquatic invertebrates and possibly enhances food resources to riparian birds in the spring. /// El desove de salmones andromos (Oncorhynchus spp.) ejerce una importante influencia sobre muchos procesos biticos en los componentes acuticos y terrestres de los sistemas ribereos, incluyendo posiblemente las comunidades de aves. Entre 1996 y 1997, los bosques riparios del sureste de Alaska ubicados alrededor de arroyos con salmones tuvieron en promedio mayores densidades (pero no mayor diversidad) de aves paserinas de bosque que bosques situados alrededor de arroyos sin salmones. La presencia de los salmones en el otoo incrementa la abundancia de invertebrados terrestres y acuticos y posiblemente causa aumentos en la cantidad de recursos alimenticios disponibles para las aves ribereas en la primavera. 
1370548| In 1999, we surveyed breeding bird and plant communities along 54 streams in the Portland, Oregon, metropolitan region to link bird community metrics with structural and spatial characteristics of urban riparian areas. Canonical correspondence analysis produced two explanatory axes relating to vegetation and road density. Total and non-native bird abundance was higher in narrow forests. Native bird abundance was greater in narrow forests surrounded by undeveloped lands; native species richness and diversity were greater in less-developed areas. Native resident and short-distance-migrant abundance was higher in narrow forests, and diversity was positively associated with developed lands. Neotropical migrant abundance, richness, and diversity were greater in open-canopied areas with fewer roads. We examined spatial relationships by regressing bird variables on satellite-derived forest canopy cover, area of undeveloped lands, and street density in a series of 50-m buffers within a 500-m radius around study sites. Non-native bird abundance decreased with increasing canopy cover within 450 m, but most other relationships were strongest at smaller scales (50-100 m). Our results suggest that increasing urban canopy cover is the most valuable land management action for conserving native breeding birds. A hierarchical scheme for Neotropical migrant conservation might include increasing forest canopy within 450 m of streams to control non-native species and cowbirds; reducing street density within a 100-m radius of streams; and conserving or planting onsite native trees and shrubs. /// Censamos las comunidades de aves reproductivas y plantas a lo largo de 54 arroyos en el rea metropolitana de Portland, Oregon en 1999 para conectar medidas de comunidades de aves con caractersticas estructurales y espaciales de zonas riparias urbanas. Anlisis de correspondencia cannica produjeron dos ejes explicativos relacionados con la vegetacin y la densidad de carreteras. La abundancia total de aves y la de aves no nativas fueron mayores en bosques estrechos. La abundancia de aves nativas fue mayor en bosques estrechos rodeados por terrenos rurales y la riqueza y diversidad de especies fueron mayores en reas menos desarrolladas. La abundancia de residentes nativas y migratorias de corta distancia fue mayor en bosques estrechos y su diversidad estuvo asociada positivamente con terrenos desarrollados. La abundancia, riqueza y diversidad de las migratorias neotropicales fueron mayores en reas de dosel abierto y con pocas carreteras. Examinamos las relaciones espaciales mediante regresiones entre variables de aves y la cobertura del dosel derivada de imgenes satelitales, el rea de terrenos sin desarrollar y la densidad de calles en una serie de reas de 50 m de ancho en un radio de 500 m alrededor de los sitios de estudio. La abundancia de aves no nativas disminuy con aumentos en la cobertura del dosel hasta 450 m, pero la mayora de las dems relaciones fueron ms fuertes a escalas menores (50-100 m). Nuestros resultados sugieren que el incremento de la cobertura del dosel en reas urbanas es la estrategia de manejo ms valiosa para conservar las aves nativas que se reproducen en el rea. Un esquema jerrquico para la conservacin de las migratorias neotropicales podra incluir aumentar la cobertura de bosque a menos de 450 m de los arroyos para controlar a las especies no nativas y a los Molothrus, reducir la densidad de calles dentro de un radio de 100 m alrededor de los arroyos y conservar o plantar rboles y arbustos nativos. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100092|Many large birds cannot replace all their flight feathers annually, creating potential life-history tradeoffs between breeding and molting. We show for the Black-footed Albatross (
4096529| In Hoffman and Smith (2003), we summarized two decades of raptor migration count data from western North America. McCaffery and Mclntyre (2005) offer an extensive critique of the "conclusions" we drew from these data concerning the migration ecology and status of western Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos). Many of their specific points about data limitations are well taken. Contrary to the flavor of their critique, however, we were not offering any definitive conclusions about the status or habits of eagles. Rather, we merely sought to describe the tendencies in the data and offer reasonable speculation about potential underlying causes of the documented patterns and trends. Our primary goal was to challenge colleagues to help us carefully consider our data and help formulate reasonable hypotheses about causal factors. We welcome and applaud McCaffery and McIntyre's (2005) thorough review of our work and genuine concern for guarding against unwarranted speculation. We believe, however that the depth of their critique was unjustified because the precision of the migration count data we presented simply is not sufficient to support detailed inspection of every annual change. Moreover, while we cannot disagree with them concerning the limits of the migration data we presented, we stand firmly behind our contention that there are indeed reasons to be concerned about the status of Golden Eagles in western North America, particularly within the sage-brush-steppe ecoregion. /// En un trabajo previo (Hoffman and Smith 2003), resumimos datos sobre conteos de migracin de rapaces realizados en el oeste de Norte Amrica. McCaffery y McIntyre (2005) presentan una extensa crtica de las "conclusiones" que sacamos a partir de esos datos con respecto a la ecologa de migracin y el estatus de la especie Aquila chrysaetos. Muchos de sus argumentos especficos sobre las limitaciones de los datos son acertados. Sin embargo, en contraste con el tono de su crtica, en nuestro estudio no ofrecimos conclusiones definitivas sobre el estatus o los hbitos de A. chrysaetos. En cambio, simplemente quisimos describir las tendencias de los datos y presentar especulaciones razonables sobre las posibles causas de los patrones y tendencias documentados. Nuestro principal objetivo era desafiar a nuestros colegas para que nos ayudaran a considerar nuestros datos cuidadosamente y a formular hip tesis razonables sobre los factores causales. Por tanto, recibimos con beneplcito la revisin exhaustiva de nuestro trabajo hecha por McCaffery y McIntyre (2005) y su inters genuino en evitar especulaciones no fundamentadas. Sin embargo, creemos que la profundidad de su crtica no es justificable porque la precisin de los datos de los conteos de migracin que presentamos es simplemente insuficiente para permitir la inspeccin detallada de todos los cambios anuales. Ms an, aunque no podemos estar en desacuerdo con ellos en cuanto a las limitaciones de los datos que presentamos, mantenemos firmemente nuestro argumento de que de hecho existen razones para estar preocupados por el estatus de A. chrysaetos en el oeste de Norte Amrica, particularmente en la ecorregin de estepas y matorrales de Artemisia. 
10.2307/1369072|The timing of breeding and molting was studied in six species of Hawaiian honeycreepers with differing food habits on the Island of Hawaii. The availability of nectar was highly seasonal, whereas insect abundance was relatively constant throughout the year. All six species of honeycreeper had extended breeding and molting periods with peak breeding between April and July and peak molting in August. Breeding and molting periods for Apapane (Himatione sanguinea) and Iiwi (Vestiaria coccinea), two nectarivorous species, were shorter than those for the more insectivorous Common Amakihi (Hemignathus virens), Hawaii Creeper (Oreomystis mana), Akepa (Loxops coccineus), and Akiapolaau (Hemignathus munroi). Missing or growing flight feathers and either a brood patch or enlarged cloacal protuberance occurred simultaneously in only 3.2% of 2,786 adult birds examined. Although overlap of breeding and molting was rare, some individuals may have been able to allocate energy resources to both activities because of low clutch size, extended brooding of young, and a low rate of molting.
10.2307/1370247|A technique for heart rate biotelemetry transmitter implantation was developed to monitor heart rate fluctuations of Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) in response to simulated aircraft noise in a large outdoor enclosure. A dorsal subcutaneous approach, with subcutaneous tunneling of lead wires, was employed for placement of the 32 g transmitters. A base-apex lead configuration, with leads anchored at the dorsal cervico-thoracic junction and the caudal keel, yielded the maximal ECG wave-form deflection for triggering the transmitter. Heart rates of six Black Ducks (three in each of two separate trials) were monitored for 3 days pre-noise to establish a baseline, and then for 4 days of simulated aircraft noise. The noise stimulus replicated an FB-111 military jet, and was played 48 times per day at a peak volume of 110 dB. Daily mean heart rates, used as indicators of metabolic rates, did not increase in response to noise. Recognizable acute heart rate increases corresponding with a noise event occurred with increased frequency during the first day of noise presentation, but on subsequent days the responses did not differ significantly from baseline. Acute heart rate responses to aircraft noise diminished rapidly, indicating the ability of Black Ducks to habituate to the auditory component of low altitude aircraft overflights.
10.2307/1369900|We studied Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) reproductive ecology in natural and restored riparian forest to evaluate the influence of habitat structure and nest-site selection on parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). Logistic regression revealed that habitat structure affected the probability of parasitism at two scales, BROAD (within 11.3 m of the nest) and LOCAL (within 5 m of the nest). Nests with abundant lateral cover at a height of < 1 m (BROAD) were less likely to be parasitized, suggesting that lateral cover at ground level may reduce parasitism by concealing host movements in the vicinity of the nest. In contrast, nests with abundant foliage cover at a height of 2-3 m (LOCAL) were more likely to be parasitized, suggesting that foliage cover above the nest may increase parasitism by providing perches from which female cowbirds can watch host activities and find nests. Sparrow nest-site selection varied among forest types, but lateral cover at ground level and foliage cover above the nest were similar for nests in each forest type. Results suggest that further research on the effects of habitat structure on nest-site selection and cowbird parasitism could lead to methods of reducing parasitism through appropriate habitat management and restoration efforts.
4122500| We describe a method for estimating the total number of shorebirds that use a migration stopover site during spring and fall migration. We combined weekly shorebird counts with parameter estimates for detection probability, sampled proportion, and length of stay on the Squaw Creek National Wildlife Refuge. Double sampling was used to determine detection probability and estimated values varied among wetland units from a low of 0.07 to a high of 0.82. The sampled proportion of most wetland units was 100% but was lower in some of the larger units. Length of stay (measured for Pectoral [Calidris melanotos] and Least Sandpipers [C. minutilla] combined) averaged 10.0 days in spring and 3.7 days in fall. Spring shorebird numbers were approximately five times greater than fall numbers on the Refuge. Annual shorebird numbers varied among years from an estimated low in 2003 of 15 734 to a high in 2002 of 69 570. Peak daily counts during study years averaged only 12% of estimated spring totals and 4% of fall totals. An estimate of shorebird numbers based on summing weekly counts, not corrected for detection probability or sampled proportion, would have been only 21% (spring) to 31% (fall) of the total number of birds. These results reveal that peak counts and nonadjusted counts can significantly underestimate the number of shorebirds that use migration stopover sites in the midcontinent of North America. /// Describimos un mtodo para estimar el nmero de aves playeras migratorias que utilizan sitios de parada durante la migracin de primavera y otoo. Combinamos conteos semanales de las aves playeras con estimaciones de los parmetros de la probabilidad de deteccin, la proporcin muestreada y la duracin de la estada en el Refugio Nacional de Squaw Creek. Usamos muestreos dobles para estimar la probabilidad de deteccin y los valores estimados variaron desde 0.07 hasta 0.82 entre humedales. La proporcin del hbitat muestreada fue del 100% en la mayora de los humedales, pero el valor fue menor en algunas de las unidades de mayor tamao. La duracin de la estada (medida para Calidris melanotos y C. minutilla) fue en promedio de 10.0 das en primavera y de 3.7 das en otoo. El nmero de aves fue aproximadamente cinco veces ms alto en la primavera que en el otoo. El nmero total anual vari entre los aos de estudio; la estimacin ms baja fue de 15 734 individuos en el 2003 y la estimacin ms alta de 69 570 individuos en el 2002. En promedio, el nmero diario ms alto represent solamente el 12% del total de las aves en primavera y el 4% del total en otoo. Una estimacin del nmero de aves basada slo en la suma de los conteos semanales, sin estar corregida por la probabilidad de deteccin o la proporcin muestreada, habra representado slo entre un 21% en primavera y un 31% en otoo del nmero total de aves. Estos resultados demuestran que conteos del nmero diario mximo o conteos no ajustados pueden subestimar significativamente el nmero real de aves que usan paradas migratorias en el centro del continente norteamericano. 
1370710| It is well established that vocal mimicry serves an intraspecific function in birds by increasing repertoire size. On an interspecific level, territorial exclusion of other species by deceptive mimicry may occur if the model (i.e., mimicked) species song is effectively reproduced by the mimicking species. Few studies have effectively demonstrated deceptive mimicry because they did not use the context of the mimic's song as a control stimulus. We addressed this shortcoming by using isolated and context-dependent playback stimuli to assess the response of Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) pairs to Northern Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) imitation. Scrub-jay pairs responded more aggressively to isolated scrub-jay weep calls than to playbacks consisting of either isolated imitation calls, imitated calls embedded in mockingbird song, or control mockingbird song. These results fail to support the hypothesis that mimicry deceives the model species. Whether mockingbird imitation of scrub-jays deceives other species requires further investigation. /// Se conoce que el mimetismo vocal en las aves tiene la funcin de incrementar el repertorio de vocalizacin a nivel intraespecfico. A nivel interespecfico, la exclusin territorial de una especie por parte de otra por medio del "mimetismo de engao" puede suceder si el canto de la especie modela (i.e., aquella que es imitada) es emulado con precisin. Pocos estudios han demostrado el uso de "mimetismo de engao" debido a que no han analizado el contexto en el que occurre la vocalizacin mimtica. En este estudio utilizamos grabaciones de cantos, tanto aislados como dependientes del contexto de la vocalizacin, para investigar cmo las parejas de Aphelocoma coerulescens responden a las emulaciones de Mimus polyglottos. Las parejas de A. coerulescens respondieron de manera ms agresiva al escuchar grabaciones de sus propios gemidos que al escuchar imitaciones a sus llamadas, imitaciones mezcladas con vocalizaciones propias de M. polyglottos, o vocalizaciones exclusivas de M. polyglottos (control). Estos resultados no apoyan la hiptesis del "mimetismo de engao." Sin embargo, se desconoce si M. polyglottos engaa a otras especies cuando imita a A. coerulescens. 
10.2307/1368198|Purple Martins (Progne subis hesperia) breeding in natural cavities in saguaro cacti did not form dense colonies, unlike martins (Progne subis subis) that breed in nest-houses in eastern North America. However, nests were clumped on a larger geographic scale. Birds in these groups of nests quickly formed mobs of up to 10 birds in response to a model crow at the nest. Males and females defended an area around their nest cavity with a radius of about 20-30 m, and often defended cavities other than the nesting cavity. Only 5-15% of breeding males were subadults and some subadult males defended cavities without a mate, indicating that many subadult males did not breed as one-year-olds. A literature review of martin colony sizes in natural cavities indicates that nest-house colonies fall within the range of breeding densities to which martins were exposed historically. The many similarities in breeding biology and social behavior between this desert subspecies and nest-house populations suggest that nest-houses are appropriate models of natural conditions.
10.2307/1369942|We compared nestling growth and fledging behavior of Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) at Triangle Island, British Columbia to the predictions of a model that considers the timing of fledging to be an adaptive strategy. In the model, fledging mass and age depend on nestling growth rate, time remaining in the season, and the contrasting mortality costs and growth benefits experienced before and after fledging. As predicted, fast growing nestlings fledged heavier and younger than slow growing nestlings. Growth rates declined over the season and fledging behavior varied accordingly. When the seasonal variation in growth rates was statistically controlled, late nestlings did not fledge lighter and younger, in contrast to the model's predictions. Late in the season, nestlings reached a greater peak mass than expected based on their slower growth rates. Also, nestlings that grew more slowly due to a higher frequency of handling reached a higher peak mass than less frequently measured nestlings. We consider the possibility that parents adaptively modified their nestling's growth trajectory by altering provisioning behavior in response to nestling condition. The nesting habitat influenced fledging. Fast growing nestlings fledged at similar ages in both level and steep nest sites. In contrast, slow growing nestlings fledged at younger ages, but similar masses, in level sites compared to steep sites. We consider the possibility that the difference in parental predation risk between level and steep nest sites influenced provisioning decisions of parents, and consequently, fledging decisions of nestlings.
10.1525/cond.2013.110195|Interest in monitoring the population viability of the Brown Pelican (
10.2307/1370318|We studied the pattern and timing of prebasic molt in adult Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) at two New England sites: Block Island, Rhode Island (BIRI), and the Vermont Institute of Natural Science (VINS) in Woodstock, Vermont. Catbirds at VINS initiated molt earlier and molted at a significantly slower rate than catbirds at BIRI. Mean individual molt durations spanned approximately 54 days at VINS and 44 days at BIRI. The two groups ended molt at about the same time. Catbirds at VINS were more variable in the timing of their molt. At both sites, second-year catbirds began and ended molt significantly earlier than after second-year catbirds. Males and females did not differ significantly in their rate or timing of molt at either site. Behavioral observations at BIRI indicated that catbirds spent less time foraging during the heaviest period of molt, but that increased foraging during late molt stages coincided with increases in fat stores, indicating overlap of molt and hyperphagy. We found no evidence that Gray Catbirds at either site departed for migration prior to completing remigial molt. The later molt schedule of BIRI birds likely resulted from the extended breeding season of some individuals. We believe that molt schedules at the two sites were influenced less by latitude per se than by site-specific differences in vegetation, food abundance, and temperature, resulting from differing elevations and conditions of coastal and inland environments.
40072360|We studied density changes of two groups of Neotropical austral migrant landbirdsthe South American temperate-tropical (SATT) and cold-temperate (SACT) migratory systemsin the main habitat types of the central Monte desert of Argentina (open
90008532|We revisit the common standards recommended by Ralph et al. (1993, 1995a) for conducting point-count surveys to assess the relative abundance of landbirds breeding in North America. The standards originated from discussions among ornithologists in 1991 and were developed so that point-count survey data could be broadly compared and jointly analyzed by national data centers with the goals of monitoring populations and managing habitat. Twenty years later, we revisit these standards because (1) they have not been universally followed and (2) new methods allow estimation of absolute abundance from point counts, but these methods generally require data beyond the original standards to account for imperfect detection. Lack of standardization and the complications it introduces for analysis become apparent from aggregated data. For example, only 3% of 196,000 point counts conducted during the period 1992-2011 across Alaska and Canada followed the standards recommended for the count period and count radius. Ten-minute, unlimited-count-radius surveys increased the number of birds detected by >300% over 3-minute, 50-m-radius surveys. This effect size, which could be eliminated by standardized sampling, was 10 times the published effect sizes of observers, time of day, and date of the surveys. We suggest that the recommendations by Ralph et al. (1995a) continue to form the common standards when conducting point counts. This protocol is inexpensive and easy to follow but still allows the surveys to be adjusted for detection probabilities. Investigators might optionally collect additional information so that they can analyze their data with more flexible forms of removal and time-of-detection models, distance sampling, multiple-observer methods, repeated counts, or combinations of these methods. Maintaining the common standards as a base protocol, even as these study-specific modifications are added, will maximize the value of point-count data, allowing compilation and analysis by regional and national data centers.
10.2307/1368525|Three species of hermit hummingbirds--a specialist (Eutoxeres aquila), a generalist (Phaethornis superciliosus), and a thief (Threnetes ruckeri)--visited the nectar-rich flowers of Heliconia stilesii Daniels at a lowland study site on the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica. Unlike H. pogonantha Cufodontis, a related Caribbean lowland species with a less specialized flower, H. stilesii may not realize its full reproductive potential at this site, because it cannot retain the services of alternative pollinators such as Phaethornis. The flowers of H. stilesii appear adapted for pollination by Eutoxeres, but this hummingbird rarely visited them at this site. Lek male Phaethornis visited the flowers frequently in late May and early June, but then abandoned this nectar source in favor of other flowers offering more accessible nectar. The strong curvature of the perianth prevents access by Phaethornis to the main nectar chamber; instead they obtain only small amounts of nectar that leaks anteriorly into the belly of the flower.
4151080| Few studies have examined how avian life-history traits vary within populations as elevation increases and climate becomes more severe. We compared egg and clutch sizes of Mountain Bluebirds (Sialia currucoides) nesting at two elevations (1500 m and 2500 m above sea level) in the Bighorn Mountains of Wyoming over two years. Eggs laid by females at the high-elevation site were, on average, significantly (6%) smaller in volume than eggs laid by their lower-elevation counterparts. Across elevations, egg size showed a significant positive correlation with female body condition (weight relative to size), and high-elevation females had significantly lower indices of condition than low-elevation females. Temperatures during clutch formation were colder at the highelevation site, and egg size was negatively related to temperature after controlling for the effects of female condition. Clutches of females at high elevations were, on average, marginally smaller (by 5%, 0.3 eggs) than clutches of low-elevation females Unlike egg size, clutch size was unrelated to either female condition or temperature during clutch formation. This suggests that, when under energetic or nutritional stress at high elevations, females sacrifice egg size before sacrificing clutch size. /// Pocos estudios han examinado cmo los caracteres de historia de vida cambian dentro de poblaciones a medida que la elevacin aumenta y el clima se torna ms severo Comparamos el tamao de los huevos y de la nidada de individuos de Sialia currucoides que se encontraban nidificando a dos altitudes (1500 m y 2500 m sobre el nivel del mar) en las Montaas Bighorn de Wyoming durante dos aos. Los huevos puestos por hembras del sitio a mayor altitud fueron, en promedio, significativamente (6%) menores en volumen que los huevos puestos por hembras en los sitios de baja altitud. A travs del rango de elevacin, el tamao de los huevos mostr una relacin positiva y significativa con la condicin corporal (peso en relacin con el tamao). Las hembras del sitio de mayor altitud tuvieron ndices de condicin significativamente menores que las hembras del sitio de baja altitud. Las temperaturas durante la formacin de la nidada en el sitio de mayor altitud fueron, en promedio, marginalmente menores (en un 5%, ~0.3 huevos) que las nidadas de las hembras del sitio de menor elevacin. De modo contrario al tamao del huevo, el tamao de la nidada no se relacion con la condicin de las hembras ni con la temperatura durante la formacin de la nidada. Esto sugiere que cuando las hembras se encuentran bajo estrs energtico o nutricional a altitudes altas, stas sacrifican el tamao del huevo antes de sacrificar el tamao de la nidada. 
4122531| The stratum corneum, the outer layer of the epidermis, consists of flattened cells embedded in a matrix of lipids, primarily cholesterol, free fatty acids, ceramides, and cerebrosides. The stratum corneum forms a barrier to water vapor diffusion through the skin. In birds, the skin limits excessive water loss at thermoneutral temperatures, but also serves as a vehicle for thermoregulation during episodes of heat stress. We measured total evaporative water loss, cutaneous water loss, and lipids in the stratum corneum in Dusky Antbirds (Cercomacra tyrannina), the first such measurements ever made for birds living in tropical rain forests. We predicted that these birds would have high rates of cutaneous water loss because of their need to thermoregulate rather than to conserve water. We found that Dusky Antbirds lose twice as much water through their skin as birds from temperate environments. We also hypothesized that the proportion of cerebrosides in the stratum corneum would increase relative to that of ceramides if Dusky Antbirds use their skin as a thermoregulatory organ. However, we found that Dusky Antbirds did not show different proportions of ceramides and cerebrosides in the stratum corneum than other species of birds. We also found that Dusky Antbirds had low amounts of free fatty acids in their stratum corneum. Overall, our data support the idea that the interactions of the lipids in the stratum corneum may play an important role in determining rates of water vapor diffusion through the skin. /// El estrato crneo, la capa ms externa de la epidermis, est formado por clulas aplanadas embebidas en una matriz de lpidos, principalmente colesterol, cidos grasos libres, ceramidas y cerebrsidos. El estrato crneo forma una barrera que evita la difusin del vapor de agua a travs de la piel. En aves la piel limita excesivas prdidas de agua en la zona termoneutral, pero tambin sirve como va de termoregulacin durante episodios de estrs trmico. Medimos la prdida total de agua por evaporacin, la prdida de agua por evaporacin a travs de la piel y los lpidos en el estrato crneo en Cercomacra tyrannina, la primera medida de esta naturaleza realizada en aves en selva hmeda tropical. Esperamos encontrar una elevada prdida de agua por evaporacin a travs de la piel en esta especie, debido a sus necesidades de termoregulacin. Encontramos que C. tyrannina pierde el doble de agua a travs de la piel comparado con especies de clima temperado. Tambin esperamos encontrar una alta proporcin de cerebrsidos en el estrato crneo si estos pjaros usan la piel para termoregular. Encontramos que C. tyrannina no presenta unas concentraciones de cerebrsidos y ceramidas en el estrato crneo diferentes de las de otras especies de pjaros. Tambin hallamos que C. tyrannina posee una baja cantidad de cidos grasos libres en el estrato crneo. En conclusion, nuestros resultados apoyan la idea de que las interacciones entre los lpidos del estrato crneo juegan un papel importante en la determinacin de las tasas de diffusion del vapor de agua a travs de la piel. 
1369684| Using radiotelemetry, we monitored dispersing juvenile Western Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia hypugaea) within a migratory population in southwestern Idaho during 1994 and 1995. Owls remained within natal areas for an average ( SE) of 58  3.4 days post-hatching before moving permanently beyond 300 m, which was our operational cutoff for dispersal from the natal area. On average, owls dispersed on 27 July (range: 15 July to 22 August), which was approximately 4 weeks after fledging. After initiating dispersal, juveniles continued moving farther away from their natal burrows and, by 61-65 days post-hatching, they had moved 0.6  0.2 km. Each juvenile used 5.1  1.2 satellite burrows, and individual satellite burrows were used for up to 14 days. The average date on which we last sighted radio-tagged juveniles was 13 August, and all but one juvenile departed the study area by early September. Our study illustrates the importance of satellite burrows to dispersing Burrowing Owls. 
10.2307/1370273|Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) is known to affect the fitness of many hosts by causing a reduction in the number of chicks that fledge from parasitized nests. However, little is known about less immediate effects on host fitness. We studied nestling growth and food acquisition and parental provisioning in parasitized and unparasitized nests of the Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea). Indigo Bunting nestlings in parasitized nests exhibited reduced rates of mass gain, but not tarsus growth, relative to bunting chicks in unparasitized nests. Bunting nestlings in parasitized nests received less food than did buntings in unparasitized nests. Buntings in parasitized nests spent more time begging than did those in unparasitized nests, but energy expended in this behavior may not have detracted greatly from the amount of energy available for growth. Adults at parasitized nests exhibited a higher provisioning rate than those at unparasitized nests. Increased provisioning by adult buntings at parasitized nests did not come at the expense of time spent brooding nestlings, but increased provisioning has the potential to affect the survival and future reproductive success of host adults. Because cowbird parasitism appears to impose substantial costs on Indigo Bunting nestlings and adults, concern over the conservation implications of parasitism should not be limited to species that suffer total reproductive failure when parasitized.
10.2307/1370443|We studied a nesting population of Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (NCA) from 1974-1997 to identify factors that influence abundance and reproduction. Our sampling period included two major droughts and associated crashes in Townsend's ground squirrel (Spermophilus townsendii) populations. The number of Prairie Falcon pairs found on long-term survey segments declined significantly from 1976-1997. Early declines were most severe at the eastern end of the NCA, where fires and agriculture have changed native shrubsteppe habitat. More recent declines occurred in the portion of canyon near the Orchard Training Area (OTA), where the Idaho Army National Guard conducts artillery firing and tank maneuvers. Overall Prairie Falcon reproductive rates were tied closely to annual indexes of ground squirrel abundance, but precipitation before and during the breeding season was related inversely to some measures of reproduction. Most reproductive parameters showed no significant trends over time, but during the 1990s, nesting success and productivity were lower in the stretch of canyon near the OTA than in adjacent areas. Extensive shrub loss, by itself, did not explain the pattern of declines in abundance and reproduction that we observed. Recent military training activities likely have interacted with fire and livestock grazing to create less than favorable foraging opportunities for Prairie Falcons in a large part of the NCA. To maintain Prairie Falcon populations in the NCA, managers should suppress wildfires, restore native plant communities, and regulate potentially incompatible land uses.
40306200|Some Canada Geese (
4096505| Migration stopover resources, particularly riparian habitats, are critically important to landbirds migrating across the arid southwestern region of North America. To explore the effects of species biogeography and habitat affinity on spring migration patterns, we synthesized existing bird abundance and capture data collected in riparian habitats of the borderlands region of the U.S. and Mexico. We determined the importance of geographic factors (longitude and latitude) in explaining variation in abundances and capture rates of 32 long-distance and three short-distance migrant species. Abundances and capture rates of 13 and 11 species, respectively, increased with increasing longitude, and four species' abundance and capture rates decreased with increasing longitude. Riparian associates, but not nonriparian species, were more abundant in western sites. Their abundance patterns were only weakly influenced by species biogeography. In contrast, biogeography did influence abundance patterns of nonriparian birds, suggesting that they choose the shortest, most direct route between wintering and breeding areas. We hypothesize that riparian obligate birds may, to some degree, adjust their migration routes to maximize time spent in high-quality riparian zones, but they are able to find suitable habitat opportunistically when crossing more hostile landscapes. In contrast, nonriparian birds adhere more closely to a hierarchical model in which the migratory route is determined by biogeographic constraints. Conservation of riparian habitats is necessary to meet future habitat stopover requirements of many western Neotropical migrant birds. We advocate a coordinated research effort to further elucidate patterns of distribution and habitat use so that conservation activities can be focused effectively. /// Los recursos que sirven como paradas migratorias, especialmente los hbitats riparios, son crticamente importantes para las aves migratorias terrestres a travs de la regin  rida del sudoeste de Norteamrica. Para explorar los efectos de la biogeografa de las especies y la afinidad de hbitat sobre los patrones de migracin de primavera, sintetizamos los datos existentes de abundancia y capturas de aves colectados en hbitats riparios en la zona fronteriza entre Estados Unidos y Mxico. Determinamos la importancia de factores geogrficos (latitud y longitud) en explicar la variacin en las abundancias y en las tasas de captura de 32 especies migratorias de larga distancia y 3 de corta distancia. Las abundancias y tasas de captura de 13 y 11 especies, respectivamente, aumentaron con el aumento de la longitud, y cuatro especies mostraron una disminucin con el aumento de la longitud. Las aves asociadas a los ambientes riparios fueron ms abundantes en los sitios del oeste que las especies no riparias, y su abundancia slo se vio levemente influenciada por la biogeografa de las especies. De modo contrastante, la biogeografa s influenci los patrones de abundancia de las especies de aves no riparias, lo que sugiere que stas escogieron la ruta ms corta y directa entre las reas de invernada y de reproduccin. Proponemos la hiptesis de que las aves de hbitat ripario obligatorias pueden, hasta cierto grado, ajustar sus rutas migratorias para maximizar el tiempo en zonas riparias de alta calidad, pero tambin son capaces de encontrar hbitats adecuados de manera oportunista al cruzar paisajes ms hostiles. De modo contrastante, las aves no riparias se adhieren ms cercanamente a un modelo jer rquico en el cual la ruta migratoria es determinada por restricciones biogeogrficas. La conservacin de los hbitats riparios es necesaria para cumplir los requerimientos futuros de las paradas durante la migracin de muchas aves migratorias Neotropicales del oeste. Abogamos por un esfuerzo de investigacin coordinado para elucidar los patrones de distribucin y de uso de hbitat de manera que las actividades para la conservacin puedan ser enfocadas de manera eficiente. 
10.2307/1369791|We investigated population trends, adult survival, and productivity indices of a breeding population of Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus) in north coastal California using capture-recapture data from 19 years of standardized mist-netting conducted at Point Reyes National Seashore. We found significant long-term declines in abundance of both breeding and migratory Warbling Vireos. In addition, we found a significant long-term decline of hatching-year birds captured during the breeding season. The number of new adults in a given year, defined as those birds not previously banded and assumed to be an index of adult recruitment, was significantly correlated with the capture rate of hatching-year birds in the previous year, suggesting a link between reproductive success and adult abundance and recruitment. Our analysis of capture-recapture data provided an estimate of 50.4% for adult annual survival, similar to estimates for other species in stable populations. We could detect no temporal trend in survival. Nest survivorship from areas near our netting site was relatively low. We suggest that the decline of breeding and migratory populations of Warbling Vireos observed in coastal California may be the result of low productivity on the breeding grounds.
40072328|Although exotic species may have a negative impact on native organisms, they can in some cases provide abundant resources. Use of these resources may have important implications for habitat use, movement, and space requirements of native animals, and ultimately for population dynamics. We describe the diet of a population of the narrowly endemic Cauca Guan (Penelope perspicax) in the Colombian Andes. This guan demonstrates plasticity in its eating habits, feeding on an exotic tree species during periods of food scarcity. Based on direct observations and analysis of fecal samples over a one-year cycle, we found that guans fed on 89 species of fruits but also included foliage, flowers, and invertebrates in their diets. Guans fed on fruit species in proportion to their availability but favored some species with high fruit production or prolonged fruiting. Fruit availability, measured both in numbers of species and biomass, varied throughout the year, with a low in September-December. During the period of low fruit availability, guans congregated in large numbers at a Chinese ash (Fraxinus chinensis) plantation, where they fed on young leaves in large quantities. Ash was planted at this site over 40 years ago as part of a reforestation program, and plantations are invaded by native vegetation. Guans are abundant at this site, and seasonal consumption of ash foliage, a concentrated and abundant food source, may have influenced local population dynamics. /// Aunque las especies exticas pueden tener efectos negativos sobre los organismos nativos, en algunos casos pueden proveer recursos abundantes. El uso de estos recursos puede tener importantes implicaciones para los patrones de uso de hbitat, movimientos y dinmica poblacional de los animales nativos. En este trabajo describimos la dieta de una poblacin de Penelope perspicax, una especie endmica de los Andes colombianos. Esta especie muestra plasticidad en sus hbitos alimentarios, consumiendo una especie de rbol extico durante las pocas de escasez de alimento. Basados en observaciones directas y anlisis de muestras fecales durante un ao, encontramos que P. perspicax se alimenta de 89 especies de frutos, pero tambin incluye follaje, flores e invertebrados en su dieta. P. perspicax se aliment de las especies de frutos en proportin a su disponibilidad, pero favorecio algunas especies que producen cosechas grandes o fructifican continuamente. La disponibilidad de frutos, medida como nmero de especies y biomasa, vari a lo largo del ao y se present un periodo de baja disponibilidad entre septiembre y diciembre. Durante el periodo de baja disponibilidad de frutos, P. perspicax se congrego en grandes nmeros en una plantatin de Fraxinus chinensis, en donde se aliment de las hojas jvenes en grandes cantidades. F. chinensis fue plantado hace unos 40 aos en un programa de reforestatin y las plantaciones estn invadidas de vegetatin nativa. P. perspicax es abundante en este sitio y el consumo estacional del follaje de F. chinensis, que representa una fuente de alimento concentrada y abundante, puede haber influenciado su dinmica poblacional.
10.1525/cond.2012.110120|The rate at which parent birds deliver food to their young may depend on several factors, both intrinsic (e.g., brood demand) and extrinsic (e.g., time of day). Using PIT tags, we determined patterns of nestling provisioning in the Blue Tit (
10.2307/1367125|The Ferruginous Hawk (Buteo regalis) is a conspicuous grassland bird that is sensitive to human disturbance. In 1978 and 1979, we studied 62 nesting pairs and recorded their behavior and nesting success. At 24 of these nests, we daily created disturbances designed to simulate those associated with land development on western rangelands. The other nests were not disturbed. Treated nests and control nests differed significantly (P < 0.05) in the number that successfully fledged young. Thirty-three percent of the disturbed nests were deserted by the adults, although our presence in the vicinity of the nest was brief. Those disturbed nests that were successful fledged significantly fewer young (P < 0.05) than undisturbed nests. Based on our cumulative data, adults did not flush 60% of the time if our activities were more than 120 m from the nest and 90% of the time if they were more than 250 m from it. Accordingly, for intermittent and brief human disturbance during years when prey are abundant and Ferruginous Hawks are in good physiological condition, we suggest that a minimum buffer zone of 0.25 km around the nest is sufficient to prevent nest desertion by at least 90% of the population. Buffer zone should be expanded in years when prey are scarce, i.e., when the hawks appear to be less tolerant of disturbance.
1370050| We studied nonbreeding American Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) using the Celestn Lagoon, Yucatn, Mexico, to characterize feeding patches and to describe factors influencing patch choice. Four invertebrate taxa (polychaetes, molluscs, chironomids, crustaceans) and two plant foods (seeds of widgeongrass [Ruppia maritima] and tubercles of muskgrass [Chara fibrosa]) comprised 99% of potential food items in 76 patches we sampled. Patches tended to be dominated either by invertebrates or plant foods; only 12% of patches had 50:50 ratios of plant and invertebrate foods. Food was more abundant in invertebrate versus plant-dominated patches (157 vs. 67 items patch<sup>-1</sup>), but flamingo flock size was smaller in invertebrate-dominated patches (60 vs. 147 birds patch<sup>-1</sup>). More individuals walk-fed as invertebrates increased in the patch, and more birds stamp-fed as plant foods increased. We argue that groups of foraging flamingos apparently indicate location of food for conspecifics (local enhancement), and may also provide information about patch quality through feeding behavior. /// Estudiamos el comportamiento de forrajeo en un grupo de flamencos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) durante la poca no-reproductiva en la Laguna de Celestn, Yucatn, Mxico, para caracterizar a los parches de forrajeo y describir los factores que influyen en la seleccin del parche. Cuatro taxa de invertebrados (poliquetos, moluscos, quironmidos y crustceos) y dos alimentos vegetales (semillas de Ruppia maritima y tubrculos de Chara fibrosa) conformaron el 99% de los elementos alimenticios potenciales para los flamencos en los 76 parches que muestreamos. Los parches tendieron a ser dominados por invertebrados o por alimento vegetal. Slo el 8% de los parches tuvieron proporciones de 50:50% de invertebrados y alimentos vegetales. El alimento fue ms abundante en parches dominados por invertebrados que en los dominados por alimentos vegetales (157 vs. 67 elementos por parche), pero el tamao del grupo de flamencos fue ms pequeo en parches dominados por invertebrados (60 vs. 147 individuos). La cantidad de individuos que se alimentaban caminando aument a medida que aumentaban los invertebrados en el parche, y la cantidad de individuos que se alimentaban parados aument a medida que aumentaban los alimentos vegetales. Sugerimos que los grupos de flamencos que forrajean aparentemente no slo indican a los coespecficos la ubicacin del alimento (mejoramiento local), sino que tambin podran proveen informacin sobre la calidad del parche a travs del comportamiento de alimentacin. 
10.2307/1368983| Free-ranging House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) were captured with mist nets in central Iowa from August through March, 1990-1993, and their gizzard contents were used to compare grit use by sex, season, and diet. Males and females did not differ in mean grit amounts or sizes (overall mean size = 0.5 mm) in their gizzards. Gizzards of birds captured during March and August contained more grit than those of birds captured during September through February (x = 674 vs. 477). Gizzards containing > 75% animal material (insects) had more grit than those containing > 75% plant food (x = 681 vs. 531). Aviary experiments then were conducted with captive House Sparrows to evaluate the effects of diet and grit size on grit choice and retention. When birds were given grit particles 0.2-1.4 mm in size and either soft animal food (canned dog food) or hard plant food (wild bird seed), grit in gizzards of birds on the two diets did not differ in mean number or size. When birds were given both animal and plant food and either small (0.2-0.4 mm) or large (1.0-1.4 mm) grit, gizzards of birds consuming small grit contained 5 times more particles than those of birds consuming large grit (x = 275 vs. 51). In experiments evaluating grit retention, most grit in gizzards was replaced within five days. Grit replacement rates were unaffected by diet, but birds given only hard, plant food averaged more grit per gizzard than those given only soft, animal food (x = 538 vs. 205). Gizzards of House Sparrows given only small grit consistently retained grit longer and contained more particles (x = 853 vs. 174) than those of birds given only large grit. 
10.2307/1368233|Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) are cooperative breeders that live in permanently territorial family groups of two to 15 individuals. Groups typically contain one to four breeding males, one to two breeding females, and zero to 10 nonbreeding group offspring. In this paper we examine how reproductive status, sex, age, and group size affect individual contributions to four aspects of cooperative nest care: incubation of eggs, brooding of nestlings, feeding of nestlings, and nest sanitation. Breeding Acorn Woodpeckers make significantly greater investments in caring for eggs and nestlings than do nonbreeders. Furthermore, the differences between breeders and nonbreeders are attributable to differences in reproductive status per se and not age; analysis of variance reveals that age itself has no significant effect on any aspect of nest-care behavior. For all aspects of nest care except nest sanitation and nocturnal incubation and brooding, females invest more heavily than do males. Although several measures of the parental behavior of breeders are negatively correlated with group size, these relationships are generally weak and nonsignificant. We conclude that (1) the greater contributions of breeders to nest care relate to their direct gametic investment in offspring and to the frequent dispersal forays of nonbreeders, (2) first-year Acorn Woodpeckers are just as capable as older birds of comparable sex and breeding status in caring for eggs and nestlings, and (3) the burden of parental care on breeders is not substantially reduced by the presence of helpers.
4096477| Hawaiian honeycreepers (Aves: Drepanidinae) evolved in the absence of mosquito-borne diseases such as avian malaria (Plasmodium spp.). Malaria has been largely responsible for the recent wave of extinctions and endangerment among Hawaiian forest birds, which began by the 1920s. Most honey creepers, especially endangered species, now persist only in forests above 1500 m elevation, where cool temperatures prevent effective malaria development in mosquitoes. We report here that prevalence of malaria in Hawaiian forest birds at 1900 m on the island of Hawai'i has more than doubled over a decade. This increase was associated with breeding of mosquitoes and warmer summertime air temperatures. We also report direct evidence of tolerance to malaria, and a possible cost of tolerance, in wild native birds. Tolerance is adding to a reservoir of malaria at upper elevations even while vectors are rare and air temperatures are too low for complete development of the parasite in the vector. The data provide a glimpse of how malaria is becoming an emergent infectious disease at upper elevations. /// Los Drepanidinae de Hawaii evolucionaron en una ambiente carente de enfermedades transmitidas por mosquitos, tales como la malaria aviar (Plasmodium spp). La malaria ha sido responsable en gran medida de la ola reciente de extinciones y de la amenaza que pesa sobre las aves de bosque de Hawaii, un proceso que comenz en la dcada de 1920. La mayora de las especies de Drepanidinae, especialmente las amenazadas, slo persisten actualmente en bosques localizados por encima de los 1500 m de elevacin, donde las temperaturas frescas previenen el desarrollo efectivo de la malaria en los mosquitos. En este estudio documentamos que la prevalencia de malaria ha aumentado a ms del doble a lo largo de una dcada en las aves de bosque a 1900 m en la isla de Hawai'i. Este incremento estuvo asociado con la reproduccin de mosquitos y con temperaturas del aire ms c lidas en los veranos. Tambin presentamos evidencia directa de tolerancia a la malaria, y de un posible costo como consecuencia de dicha tolerancia, en aves silvestres nativas. La tolerancia est creando un reservorio de malaria a mayores elevaciones, aun cuando los vectores son escasos y las temperaturas del aire son demasiado bajas para que el desarrollo del parsito se complete dentro del vector. Estos datos proveen una indicacin de cmo la malaria est convirtindose en una enfermedad infecciosa emergente en las tierras altas. 
10.2307/1369215|Prior analyses and reviews of diet in the Cooper's Hawk (Accipiter cooperii) have suggested that avian prey usually provides a majority of items and biomass, but this interpretation may be compromised by methodological problems. In Wisconsin, we found that indirect collection of prey remains near nests (92% birds) overestimated the proportion of avian items in comparison to direct observation of prey deliveries to nestlings (51-68% birds). Previous studies using indirect methods may have overstated the frequency of birds in the diet. Also, most avian items brought to nestlings in Wisconsin, as elsewhere, were young birds. Some prior studies relying on indirect methods and using prey species' adult mass to calculate avian biomass have probably accentuated the methodological bias toward birds among prey remains. In Wisconsin, birds provided a minority of prey biomass (40-46%) in two of our three sampling pools. Proportions of avian items and biomass are highly variable in the small set of other direct dietary studies of the Cooper's Hawk, all from the breeding season. Because of methodological, seasonal, geographic, and other limitations, existing data do not warrant an assumption that birds prevail in the diet. Because vulnerable ground foraging animals (as well as young birds) appear to constitute most of the breeding season diet, we also question the assumption--based mainly on breeding season studies--that Cooper's Hawks feed principally on prey of high "agility," as proposed in some theories of reversed sexual size dimorphism.
10.2307/1366891| To study the timing of egg formation in the Adlie Penguin (Pygoscelis adeliae), we gave 150 females an oral dose of Sudan black dye before they laid their eggs. This lipophilic dye is incorporated into yolk synthesized on the day of dosing and deposited on the developing ovum as a blue layer. First, second, and third fresh eggs laid by dosed birds were collected. Analysis of the timing of egg formation revealed that rapid yolk deposition (RYD) on the first ovum began 10-12 days prior to cessation of feeding. Second and third yolks were initiated sequentially at 3-day intervals. The total time necessary for RYD was 14-17 days, and was followed by a 5- to 7-day lag period between yolk completion and laying. In total, 19-24 days were required to produce each egg. Within clutches, second and third eggs were smaller than the first egg, owing to reduced albumen content, while yolk mass remained relatively constant. We determined the daily energy, protein, and lipid input into a clutch and estimated that the use of a female's body reserves during a 12-day fast requires 307 g of muscle tissue. Of this, approximately 123 g of muscle (40%) are required to produce the 24 g of protein contained in egg components deposited during the fast. Both the long lag period and the 3-day interval between laying eggs may be adaptive in reducing the daily protein demand for egg production. 
4096550| We used data collected across 28 years (1975-2002) to compare how timing of laying and egg size respond to environmental variability in two low-arctic and two high-arctic Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia) populations. Ice conditions strongly affect food availability to marine birds in the Arctic, and the percentage of the sea's surface covered by ice within 300 km of the breeding colony varied more among years near the start of laying at our high-arctic study colonies (Prince Leopold and Coburg Islands, Nunavut, Canada) than at our low-arctic study colonies (Coats and Digges Islands, Nunavut). However, mean values differed little. These results indicate that Thick-billed Murres breeding in the High Arctic experience more variable ice conditions, but not necessarily more severe ice conditions, during the period of egg formation. In response, both median laying date and mean egg size varied more among years at high-arctic than at low-arctic colonies. Several lines of evidence suggested that the variation was a result of within-female effects, i.e., phenotypic plasticity rather than different individuals breeding in years in which environmental conditions differed. Previous studies have shown that Thick-billed Murres lay eggs later in years of heavier ice coverage, especially in the High Arctic where ice conditions can be severe, and only in the High Arctic was later laying associated with reduced egg size. The relationship tended towards a negative asymptote suggesting that each female may have her own minimum egg size. Our results show that Thick-billed Murres that inhabit a more variable environment display greater variability in life-history traits. More generally, they offer insight into mechanisms linking environmental heterogeneity to phenotypic variation in life-history traits. /// Empleamos datos colectados a lo largo de 28 aos (1975-2002) para determinar cmo el ajuste temporal de la puesta y del tamao del huevo responde a la variabilidad ambiental en dos poblaciones del Artico bajo y dos poblaciones del rtico alto de Uria lomvia. Las condiciones del hielo afectaron fuertemente la disponibilidad de alimentos para las aves marinas en el rtico. El porcentaje de la superficie del mar cubierta por hielo a menos de 300 km de la colonia reproductiva vari ms entre aos cerca del inicio de la puesta en nuestras colonias de estudio del rtico alto (Islas Prince Leopold y Coburg, Nunavut, Canad) que en nuestras colonias de estudio del rtico bajo (Islas Coats and Digges, Nunavut). Sin embargo, los valores medios difirieron poco. Estos resultados indican que los individuos de Uria lomvia que cran en el rtico alto experimentan condiciones de hielo ms variables, pero no necesariamente ms severas, durante el perodo de la formacin del huevo. Como respuesta, tanto la fecha mediana de puesta y la media del tamao del huevo variaron ms entre aos en las colonias del rtico alto que en las del rtico bajo. Varias lneas de evidencia sugirieron que esta variacin fue el resultado de variaciones propias de las hembras (i.e., plasticidad fenotpica) y no de variacin entre individuos diferentes que criaron en aos en los cuales las condiciones ambientales difirieron. Estudios previos han mostrado que Uria lomvia realiza su puesta ms tarde en los aos de mucha cobertura de hielo, especialmente en el rtico alto, donde las condiciones de hielo pueden ser severas, y slo en el rtico alto la demora de la puesta se asoci con una reduccin del tamao del huevo. La relacin tendi hacia una asntota negativa, sugiriendo que cada hembra podra tener su propio tamao mnimo del huevo. Nuestros resultados muestran que los individuos de Uria lomvia que habitan un ambiente ms variable muestran mayor variabilidad en los rasgos de historia de vida. De modo ms general, nuestros resultados ofrecen informacin sobre los mecanismos que vinculan la heterogeneidad ambiental con la variacin fenotpica en los rasgos de historia de vida. 
4151062| A recent phylogenetic survey of the New World orioles (genus Icterus; Omland et al. 1999) suggested that the Baltimore Oriole (I. galbula) and the Black-backed Oriole (I. abeillei) are sister taxa. That survey examined mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from a single representative of each species in the genus. Here, we examine mtDNA sequences from 15 Blackbacked and 20 Baltimore Orioles. The two species appear to be very recently diverged, with average sequence divergences for both cytochrome b (cyt b) and the control region indicating a probable late Pleistocene split. Despite this very recent divergence, there is one fixed base-pair difference between the species in cyt b and another in the control region, suggesting that one or both species have undergone a bottleneck during or since speciation. This molecular evidence of recent divergence suggests that male plumage differences between Black-backed and Baltimore Orioles evolved very rapidly. /// Un estudio filogentico reciente de los orioles del Nuevo Mundo (gnero Icterus; Omland, et al. 1999) sugiere que Icterus galbula e I. abeillei son taxa hermanos. En aquel estudio se examin el ADN mitocondrial de un slo representante de cada especie del gnero. En este estudio examinamos secuencias de ADN mitocondrial de 15 individuos de I. abeillei y 20 de I. galbula. Las dos especies parecen haber divergido recientemente con una separacin promedio de las secuencias nucleotdicas en citocromo b y la region de control que indica que la divergencia ocurri probablemente a fines del Pleistoceno. A pesar de haber divergido tan recientemente, existe una diferencia fija de un par de bases en la secuencia nucleotIdica entre las dos especies en citocromo b y otra diferencia fija en la secuencia nucleotdica de la region de control, lo cual sugiere que una o ambas especies han sufrido un efecto de cuello de botella desde o durante el proceso de especiacin. Esta evidencia molecular de divergencia reciente sugiere que los elementos del plumaje en los machos evolucionaron muy rpidamente entre I. abeillei e I. galbula. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090070|Floating bird eggs to estimate their age is a widely used technique, but few studies have examined its accuracy throughout incubation. We assessed egg flotation for estimating hatch date, day of incubation, and the embryo's developmental age in eggs of the American Avocet (
10.2307/1368146|Of the grebes that have been studied, Western Grebes (Aechmophorus occidentalis) and Clark's Grebes (A. clarkii) are unique in having a short period of intensive mate-feeding behavior that immediately precedes nest building and egg laying. The evolution of mate feeding in these two fish-eating grebes may be the result of social selective pressures relating to mate and nest-platform guarding.
40072370|Hurricane landfalls pose a potential threat to coastal landbird populations. The effects of Hurricane Katrina's landfall in August 2005 on the suburban and urban resident landbird community of Greater New Orleans, Louisiana was assessed beginning five weeks after landfall. Compared to numbers tallied during surveys from 1994 to 2000 on 2.2 km of transects, the 10 most numerous bird species all showed strong declines, as did tree squirrels (
10.2307/1368696|The water-vapor pressure (P<sub>N</sub>) in nests of the San Miguel Island race of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia micronyx) averaged 16 torr, but varied considerably between nests and within individual nests during successive days of incubation. Large daily fluctuations occurred throughout the incubation period and did not parallel concurrent changes in ambient vapor pressure (P<sub>I</sub>). Daily rates of water loss from nest eggs (MH<sub>2</sub>O) averaged 28 mg day<sup>-1</sup>, but also varied considerably within and between nests and did not correlate with changes in P<sub>I</sub>. MH<sub>2</sub>O increased 6-33% after the third day of incubation. P<sub>N</sub> was significantly higher and MH<sub>2</sub>O significantly lower in nests located in sheltered gullies than in nests from a windswept slope. These data suggest that Song Sparrows do not regulate P<sub>N</sub> to achieve hatching success.
10.2307/1368640|The gargle, a complex call of the Black-capped Chickadee (Parus atricapillus), was studied during the flocking period at two feeders in southeastern Wisconsin. Gargles are usually associated with aggression and are given more frequently by males than females, the gargler almost always winning the encounter. Dominant birds give gargles more frequently than subordinates. Particular gargle types (unique syllable combinations) are not addressed to specific individuals. Birds have at least 13 gargle types in their repertoires, some having over 30, although the total repertoire size could not be determined. Dominants did not have larger or more diverse repertoires, nor did they show differences as compared with subordinates in the amount of sharing of gargle types. Most gargle types are shared, but each individual has some very rare ones that may not be shared. The frequency with which particular gargle types are uttered varies from year to year at the same feeder and also in different parts of the winter. The frequency of occurrence of particular gargle types indicates that selection may favor call-sharing. At two feeders, 383 m distant, which we studied for 2 years, no flock specific dialects were detected, but in one of the 2 years birds visiting the same feeder tended to share gargle types more with each other than with those at the other feeder. Birds that had strong proximity associations with each other, however, did not show stronger sharing compared to those that were more weakly associated.
1370105| I examined 38 years of Christmas Bird Count data in order to resolve conflicting earlier findings as to whether eruptions of boreal seed-eating birds are synchronized and occur at regular intervals. A total of 15 species was analyzed, including several largely insectivorous boreal species. Interspecific synchrony was common, with 34 species pairs (32% of a possible 105) statistically synchronous across all or part of North America and clusters of up to five species exhibiting significant synchrony in all pairwise combinations. Within-species synchrony was significant between eastern and western North America for five species. The relationship between interspecific synchrony and diet was weak and significantly higher among species in the same diet category in western North America only. Periodicity as measured by temporal autocorrelations in mean winter density at lags of up to three years was significant for eight of the species in at least one of the geographic regions; four of these (Red-breasted Nuthatch [Sitta canadensis], Red Crossbill [Loxia curvirostra], Common Redpoll [Carduelis flammea], and Pine Siskin [Spinus pinus]) exhibited a significant pattern of alternating cycles of low and high densities in at least one of the geographic regions analyzed. These results confirm that eruptions of boreal seed-eating birds are sometimes interspecifically synchronous events. However, the weak relationship with diet supports the hypothesis that factors in addition to food play an important role in both causing and synchronizing eruptions. Furthermore, synchrony varies dramatically through time, and thus conclusions regarding both the patterns and causes of eruptions are likely to differ depending on the time frame considered. /// Examin 38 aos de datos de los Conteos Navideos de Aves para resolver conflictos en hallazgos previos sobre si las erupciones de aves granvoras estn sincronizadas y ocurren a intervalos regulares. Un total de 15 especies fue analizado, incluyendo varias especies boreales principalmente insectvoras. La sincrona interespecfica fue comn, con 34 pares de especies (32% de 105 posibles) estadsticamente sincrnicas a travs de todo o parte de Amrica del Norte, y grupos de hasta cinco especies exhibiendo significativa sincrona en todas las combinaciones pareadas. La sincrona intraespecfica entre el Este y Oeste de Amrica del Norte fue significativa para cinco especies. La relacin entre sincrona interespecfica y dieta fue dbil y slo significativamente mayor entre especies en la misma categora de dieta en el Oeste de Amrica del Norte. La periodicidad, medida como la autocorrelacin temporal de la densidad invernal promedio con un desfase temporal de hasta tres aos, fue significativa para ocho de las especies en al menos una de las regiones geogrficas; cuatro de estas especies (Sitta canadensis, Loxia curvirostra, Carduelis flammea y Spinus pinus) exhibieron un patrn significativo de alternancia de ciclos de baja y alta densidades en al menos una de las regiones geogrficas analizadas. Estos resultados confirman que las erupciones de aves boreales granvoras a veces son eventos sincrnicos interespecficos. Sin embargo, la dbil relacin con la dieta apoya la hiptesis que otros factores adems del alimento juegan un rol importante tanto en causar como en sincronizar las erupciones. Ms an, la sincrona vara dramticamente en el tiempo, y por ello las conclusiones sobre los patrones y las causas de las erupciones probablemente diferirn dependiendo de la escala temporal considerada. 
4151064| The carotenoid-pigmented bill of Zebra Finches (Taeniopygia guttata) has received much recent attention as a sexually selected signal of quality, but these birds also display several sexually dichromatic plumage traits, including rust-colored cheek patches, a black breast band, and brown flanks. Black, brown, and earth-toned features in animals are thought to be produced by melanin pigments, but few studies have identified the melanin content of such colors in bird feathers. We used a series of biochemical techniques to investigate the pigmentary basis of these plumage colors in male Zebra Finches. All three feather traits contained melanin pigments, but varied in the amounts of the two basic forms of melanin (eumelanin and phaeomelanin). Black breast feathers contained predominantly eumelanin, whereas cheek and flank feathers contained extraordinarily high concentrations of phaeomelanin. Conventional methods of carotenoid analysis detected no carotenoids in either the cheek or flank feathers. /// El pico pigmentado con carotenoides de Taeniopygia guttata ha sido destacado recientemente como una seal de calidad seleccionada sexualmente, pero estas aves tambin presentan varios caracteres de plumaje sexualmente dicromticos, incluyendo parches en las mejillas de color xido, una faja pectoral negra y flancos de color caf. Se cree que las tonalidades negras, cafs y color tierra son producidas por melaninas en los animales, pero existen pocos estudios que hayan identificado el contenido de melanina de dichos colores en las plumas de las ayes. En este estudio empleamos una serie de tcnicas bioqumicas para investigar la base pigmentaria de estos colores del plumaje en macho de T. guttata. Los tres caracteres de las plumas contaron con pigmentos meldnicos, pero variaron en las cantidades de las dos formas bdsicas de melanina (eumelanina y feomelanina). Las plumas negras del pecho presentaron principalmente eumelanina, mientras que las de las mejillas y los flancos presentaron concentraciones extraordinariamente altas de feomelanina. Los mtodos tradicionales de anlisis de carotenoides no detectaron este tipo de pigmentos en las plumas de las mejillas y los flancos. 
10.2307/1367212|I describe here breeding season diets of Aplomado Falcons (Falco femoralis) at 18 sites in Veracruz, Campeche, and Chiapas, Mexico, based on 256 animals in prey remains and 234 prey that I detected while watching the falcons' feeding behavior. Birds comprised 94% of individuals in prey remains, but only 35% of prey that I saw being taken. Although the remainder and majority of the prey that I saw being taken were insects, 97% of prey biomass in this sample was birds. Common prey were moths, beetles, doves, cuckoos, and grackles. Prey animals ranged in weight from less than 1 g to over 500 g. Avian prey that I saw being taken averaged 67 g. In at least one case, prey size may have influenced prey selection within species since the falcons preferentially took female Great-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus mexicanus), which are smaller than males. The swiftness of Aplomado Falcons in flight, coupled with their agility on foot and tendency to hunt cooperatively, may account for their broad prey preferences. They do not, however, capture swifts and swallows. The high proportion of birds in the diet may explain the falcon's heavy contamination with residues of DDT.
10.1525/cond.2012.100199|In continuous forests, roads may function as barriers to dispersal by forest wildlife. By testing responses to recorded calls, we compared bird movement over a paved road with movement within forest-interior plots in Cuc Phuong National Park, northern Vietnam, in summer 2007. We focused on two mid-story species, the Striped Tit-Babbler (
1370041| I report nonrandom selection of sites for incubation mounds and interspecific sharing of mounds by three sympatric megapodes (Wattled Brush-turkey [Aepypodius arfakianus], Brown-collared Talegalla [Talegalla jobiensis] and New Guinea Megapode [Megapodius decollatus]) in the Crater Mountain Wildlife Management Area in the eastern highlands of Papua New Guinea. Talegallas used mounds concurrently with New Guinea Megapodes, and renovated brush-turkey mounds after the latter species had finished breeding. New Guinea Megapodes and brush-turkeys did not use the same mounds. Analysis of 18 environmental variables at 80 mound sites and 91 random points showed that (1) mound sites of the three species differed significantly from random points. Mounds were associated with large trees and in less disturbed habitat, characteristics which contribute to the functioning of the mound. (2) Mound sites of the three species differed from each other. Brush-turkey sites were steeper, and had fewer and smaller trees in the mound and more herbs in the surrounding forest than those of the other two species. New Guinea Megapode and talegalla sites were not clearly separated. (3) Some important environmental variables had significant effects of study location and location  species, suggesting that inter- and intraspecific differences in mound sites are dependent on the habitat in which the mounds are located. Given this, caution should be applied to generalizations about widespread species from site-selection studies in a small subset of habitats. I recommended landowners be advised not to locate gardens or cut trees close to mounds, and exclude some areas from logging concessions and mining leases. /// Se reporta la seleccin no azarosa de sitios para incubacin y como comparten estos sitios tres especies simptricas de la familia de Megapodiidae (Aepypodius arfakianus, Talegalla jobiensis y Megapodius decollatus) en tres sitios en el rea de manejo de vida silvestre Crater Mountain en las tierras altas del este de Papua Nueva Guinea. Individuos de Talegalla usaron los sitios al mismo tiempo que Megapodius, pero utilizaron sitios de Aepypodius despus que sta los abandonara. Un anlisis sobre 18 caractersticas ambientales de 80 sitios y 91 puntos ubicados al azar indic que (1) Las caractersticas ambientales de los sitios de incubacin de las tres especies fueron significativamente diferentes de las registradas en puntos al azar. Los sitios de incubacin se concentraron en reas con rboles grandes y en reas con menos perturbacin que los puntos azarosos, factores que contribuyen a la funcin del sitio. (2) Las tres especies utilizaron sitios diferentes: Aepypodius utiliz sitios con mayor pendiente, con menos rboles y de menor tamaos, y con mayor cobertura herbacea en el bosque circundante, que las otras dos especies. Los sitios de Megapodius y de Talegalla no se distinguieron claramente uno de otro. (3) Algunas variables ambientales importantes tuvieron efectos significativos de ubicacin y de ubicacin  especies, lo cual sugiere que las diferencias entre y dentro de cada especies dependieron del hbitat en el cual se encontraban. Dados estos resultados, se recomienda precaucin al generalizar los resultados para especies con amplia distribucin geogrfica basados en reas pequeas. Se recomienda no sembrar, ni cortar rboles cerca de los sitios de incubacin, y que algunas reas sean excludas de las conseciones para actividades forestales y de mineras. 
10.2307/1368072|We examined 10 characteristics of natural cavities and their influence on reproductive success of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) nesting in dead trees in beaver ponds. Large ranges were found for entrance height and area, cavity volume, and nearness to shore of nest sites. Other characteristics were less variable: 46% of cavities were less than 2 m above the pond surface, and 48% had entrance widths of 4-5 cm. Tree Swallow nest sites were uniformly dispersed in the ponds. Two cavity characteristics, cavity height and floor area, influenced reproductive success. Lower nest sites were more frequently preyed on and females laid larger clutches in cavities with a large floor area. Five species larger than Tree Swallows used cavities during the study. Girth of the snag at the base and at the cavity, entrance width, and cavity volume were significantly greater at sites used by these species than those used by Tree Swallows. Nest sites suitable for breeding did not appear to be limiting to Tree Swallows, because characteristics of unused cavities did not differ from those used by Tree Swallows and other species. Intraspecific territoriality was likely responsible for the large number of unused cavities in our populations. Other factors influencing cavity availability in our sites include interspecific competition, predation, snag fall, and continuing woodpecker excavation.
10.2307/1368279|The cardiac response (change in heartbeat) of adult, free-living birds was monitored to evaluate whether or not acoustic recognition occurs between mated kingfishers. Consistent differences in cardiac responses to playback of familiar vs. unfamiliar vocalizations were observed across all birds tested. The temporal patterning of the initial pulses of "approach calls," vocalizations emitted while birds approached their nests, was found to be less variable between calls of an individual than between calls sampled from different individuals. Statistical analysis of call parameters indicates that temporal patterning of the initial pulses could be used for individual recognition.
4151095| On 11 July 1985, an albino juvenile Great Frigatebird (Fregata minor) was collected by RWS and EAS on Christmas Island (2N, 157W) in the tropical Pacific. First observed on 13 July 1984 as a 55-60-day-old chick, the albino was seen flying about the colony on 4 November 1984 and again in February 1985. In July 1985 the juvenile was at its nest with such badly abraded plumage that it could not fly. Burtt (1986) proposed an aerodynamic model that predicts the distribution of melanic feathers in response to abrasion from airborne particles in a flying bird. The albino frigatebird provides a test of this model, since frigatebirds spend most of their time flying and rarely contact water, ground, or objects. Abrasion of the primaries and tail of this albino Great Frigatebird follows the pattern predicted by Burtt (1986). Furthermore, the pattern of damage to secondaries and tertiaries suggests that friction of feathers against each other is another important source of wear. /// El 11 de julio de 1985 un juvenil albino de la especie Fregata minor fue colectado por RWS y EAS en la Isla de Navidad (2N, 157W), en el Pacflco tropical. Primero fue observado el 13 de julio de 1984 como un polluelo de 55-60 das de edad, el cual fue visto nuevamente el 4 de noviembre de 1984 volando sobre la colonia, y tambin en febrero de 1985. En julio de 1985 el juvenil fue encontrado en su nido con el plumaje tan severamente daado que no poda volar. Burtt (1986) propuso un modelo aerodinmico que predeca la distribucin de las plumas melnicas en un ave voladora en respuesta a la abrasin proveniente de partculas areas. Este individuo albino proporciona una prueba de este modelo, ya que las aves del gnero Fregata pasan gran parte de su tiempo volando y raramente se ponen en contacto con el agua, suelo u objetos. La abrasin de las primarias y la cola siguen el patrn predicho. Adems, el patrn de dao en las secundarias y terciarias sugiere que la friccin de las plumas entre s es otra razn importante del desgaste. 
40306176|Mist netting is widely used to monitor the reproductive success of passerines, yet little is known about its effects on bird ecology. Using a 25-year data set from central California, we evaluated the effects of constant-effort mist netting on the reproductive performance of the Wrentit (
10.1525/cond.2009.080059|Riparian forests are thought to be important habitat for fledglings in a diversity of temperate-forest passerines, yet few studies have examined this hypothesis. The main objective of this study, conducted in temperate deciduous forests in Michigan's Lower Peninsula, was to compare bird use of riparian and upland forests during and after breeding. Using mist-nets, we quantified populations in accordance with the Monitoring Avian Productivity and Survivorship (MAPS) protocol. Nets were set up in both riparian and upland forests in a paired sampling design. After fledging, we captured juveniles, including those of the Ovenbird (
10.2307/1370146|Mist netting and point counting have been used equally in the Neotropics for the purpose of surveying bird communities, although their effectiveness is poorly known. We compared mist netting and point counting data collected from the same survey points in a mature subtropical forest in Belize to assess their descriptions of a bird community within a small region and across many survey points. We surveyed each point for three consecutive days using one technique and then for three additional days using the other technique. Mist netting and point counting detected only 25% and 60%, respectively of all forest species. The species lists from mist netting and point counting had similar proportions of species in groupings based on families, abundance, and migratory status, and in diet, habitat use, and foraging substrate guilds. Species lists from mist netting had a greater proportion of understory and small species than the species list from point counting. Species lists from mist netting and point counting had smaller proportions of large-bodied and rare species than a local checklist. Point counting detected more species per point with greater time efficiency and more species per point in 25 of 28 guilds than did mist netting. Point counting detected three common species less frequently than mist netting, whereas mist netting detected 38 common species less frequently than point counting. Point counting detected understory species as frequently as mist netting did at individual points. The two methods had > 50% agreement on the presence of only four species at individual points. Both techniques detected different sets of common species with similar frequency, although point counting detected many more uncommon species. Although using both techniques was more effective than using either alone, point counting alone was significantly more efficient for conducting bird surveys.
10.1525/cond.2010.090238|Wetlands are dynamic and can be destroyed and created quickly by natural forces. Therefore, birds inhabiting these wetlands may need to locate new suitable sites quickly. We investigated the cues wetland birds use when selecting a breeding site. Many species may use both habitat (e.g., vegetation structure) and social cues (presence of conspecifics and/or heterospecifics) when selecting a location for breeding. Using a two-species occupancy-modeling approach, we found certain wetland birds more likely to occur with other species, suggesting the presence of heterospecifics may influence settlement. Species that preferred wetlands with a roughly 50:50 ratio of open water to vegetation (hemi-marsh) occurred more frequently than expected with the Pied-billed Grebe (
10.2307/1369763|Knowledge-based conservation efforts have a greater chance of success than efforts without a sound scientific basis. The geographic distribution of Neotropical ornithological studies published from 1979-1995 is very uneven. Land and human population characteristics, considered an index of threat to a country's avifauna, are not correlated with recent Neotropical avian research efforts. When these statistics are examined in conjunction with publication levels and species richness, three groups of countries are distinguished. The most neglected group of countries (Group 1) have a combination of lower numbers of bird species and publications, yet have high population densities and a high percentage of domesticated lands. A subset of Central American countries is of particular concern for its importance to wintering Nearctic-Neotropic migrants. I suggest that efforts be made to improve research coverage and quality, particularly among Group 1 countries.
1370739| The demography of Zenaida Doves (Zenaida aurita) was studied on Cayo del Agua, Culebra, Puerto Rico. We collected capture-recapture and reproductive success data and monitored annual changes in the density of ground nests in 1987-1993 and 2000. Models with time-specific apparent survival and constant capture rates (
3247752| Foraging behavior often reflects food availability in predictable ways. For example, in habitats where food availability is high, predators should attack prey more often and move more slowly than in habitats where food availability is low. To assess relative food availability and habitat quality, I studied the foraging behavior of breeding Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) in two forest habitat types, cypress-gum swamp forest and coastal-plain levee forest. I quantified foraging behavior with focal animal sampling and continuous recording during foraging bouts. I measured two aspects of foraging behavior: 1) prey attack rate (attacks per minute), using four attack maneuvers (glean, sally, hover, strike), and 2) foraging speed (movements per minute), using three types of movement (hop, short flight [1 m], long flight [>1 m]). Warblers attacked prey more often in cypress-gum swamp forest than in coastal-plain levee forest. Foraging speed, however, was not different between habitats. I also measured foraging effort (% time spent foraging) and relative frequency of attack maneuvers employed in each habitat; neither of these variables was influenced by forest type. I conclude that Prothonotary Warblers encounter more prey when foraging in cypress-gum swamps than in coastal-plain levee forest, and that greater food availability results in higher density and greater reproductive success for birds breeding in cypress-gum swamp. /// La conducta de alimentacin a menudo refleja la disponibilidad de alimento de maneras previsibles. Por ejemplo, en los hbitats donde la disponibilidad de alimento es alta, los depredadores deberan atacar presas ms a menudo y moverse ms lentamente que en los hbitats donde la disponibilidad de alimento es baja. Estudi la conducta de alimentacin de Protonotaria citrea durante la poca reproductiva en dos tipos de hbitats boscosos, el bosque pantanoso de ciprs-gomero y el bosque piano costero de albardn, para evaluar la disponibilidad relativa de alimento y la calidad de hbitat. Cuantifiqu la conducta de alimentacin mediante muestreos focales y grabaciones continuas mientras las aves se alimentaban. Med dos aspectos de dicha conducta: 1) la tasa de ataque a presas (ataques por minuto), utilizando cuatro maniobras de ataque (desplazarse sobre un sustrato recogiendo presas, vuelo desde una percha para atrapar las presas en el aire, vuelo suspendido, y otra maniobra de revoloteo), y 2) la velocidad (movimientos por minuto), utilizando tres tipos de movimiento (salto, vuelo corto [1 m], vuelo largo [>1 m]). Los individuos de P. citrea atacaron presas ms a menudo en el bosque pantanoso de ciprs-gomero que en el bosque plano costero de albardn. La velocidad de alimentacin, sin embargo, no fue diferente entre hbitats. Med tambin el esfuerzo (% del tiempo utilizado en forrajear) y la frecuencia relativa de maniobras de ataque empleadas en cada hbitat; ninguna de estas variables fue influenciada por el tipo bosque. Concluyo que los individuos de P. citrea encuentran ms presas cuando se alimentan en pantanos de ciprs-gomero que en el bosque piano costero de albardn, y que una mayor disponibilidad de alimento se traduce en una mayor densidad y en un xito reproductivo ms alto para las aves de los bosques pantanosos de ciprs-gomero. 
4096483| Examination of 1622 specimens indicates that North American Falconiformes show a wide variety of remigial (primary and secondary) replacement strategies, detectable throughout the year by evaluation of replacement patterns in the wings. Most Falconidae undergo complete prebasic molts whereas most Accipitridae display retained secondaries or show stepwise molt replacement patterns ("Staffelmuser"). Among individuals exhibiting Staffelm user, minimum age can be inferred up to 5 years (fifth-basic plumage) by the number of "replacement waves" present among the primaries. It may also be able to infer breeding status during the previous summer by "suspension limits," resulting from the interruption of molt during breeding. Among Accipitridae, Staffelmuser occurred in species with greater mass, higher wing loading, longer migration distance, and more open rather than wooded foraging habitats: species that experience time constraints on molting and incur greater costs from large gaps in the wing. Thus, this study supports both the "time-constraints hypothesis," suggesting that Staffelmuser is a consequence of insufficient time for a complete annual molt, and the "aerodynamic hypothesis," suggesting that Staffelmuser reflects an adaptive need to replace as many feathers as possible without inhibiting flight efficiency. Time constraints may have been a proximate cause of Staffelmuser among Falconiformes, with improvements to flying efficiency being an ultimate adaptive benefit. /// El examen de 1622 espec menes indica que los Falconiformes norteamericanos muestran una gran variedad de estrategias de reemplazo de plumas del vuelo (primarias y secundarias), que pueden ser detectadas a lo largo de un ao, evaluando los patrones de reemplazo en las alas. La mayora de los Falconidae realizan mudas prebsicas completas, mientras que la mayora de los Accipitridae retienen las plumas secundarias o muestran un patrn de reemplazo con muda en etapas ("Staffelmuser"). Entre los individuos que exhiben "Staffelmuser", la edad mnima se puede inferir hasta 5 aos (quinto plumaje bsico) por el nmero de "ondas de reemplazo" presentes entre las primarias. Tambin puede ser posible inferir el estado reproductive durante el verano anterior por los "lmites de suspensin" que resultan debido a la interrupcin de la muda durante la reproduccin. Entre los Accipitridae, el Staffelmuser ocurri en especies con mayor peso, mayor carga alar, con distancias migratorias ms largas y de hbitats de forrajeo ms abiertos que boscosos: especies que presentan restricciones de tiempo durante la muda y especies que incurren en un mayor costo debido a los grandes huecos en las alas. As, este estudio apoya tanto la "hiptesis de restriccin de tiempo", sugiriendo que el Staffelmuser es una consecuencia del tiempo insuficiente para completar una muda anual, y la "hiptesis aerodinmica", que sugiere que el Staffelmuser refleja una necesidad adaptativa de reemplazo de la mayor parte posible de las plumas sin inhibir la eficiencia del vuelo. Las restricciones de tiempo pueden haber sido una causa proximal del Staffelmuser en los Falconiformes, con un mejoramiento de la eficiencia del vuelo como un beneficio adaptativo esencial. 
10.2307/1369280| During 28 research vessel cruises in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean from 1976 through 1990, Parkinson's Petrels (Procellaria parkinsoni) were observed near shore from southern Mexico (ca. 15N) to northern Peru (ca. 5S), and along a broad seaward extension that continued west of the Galpagos Islands to 110W. Parkinson's Petrels regularly associated with dolphins: of the 618 petrels observed, 469 (76%) were associated with 10 species of dolphins, on 55 occasions, with 1 to 300 petrels present. They occurred mostly with two rare dolphin species: the melon-headed whale (Peponocephala electra) and the false killer whale (Pseudorca crassidens). This appeared to be a largely obligatory foraging relationship for Parkinson's Petrels. Associations with other dolphin species occurred primarily when those species also associated with melon-headed and false killer whales. Parkinson's Petrels avoided a common and widespread, multi-species feeding assemblage which consisted of a diverse, fast-moving group of seabirds, spotted and spinner dolphins (Stenella attenuata and S. longirostris), and tuna, all of which feed on live prey forced to the surface. The lumbering Parkinson's Petrels appeared ill-equipped to take such prey. In contrast, melon-headed and false killer whales apparently fed by dismembering large prey below the surface and so, provided feeding opportunities for a scavenging bird with diving capabilities. Among eastern tropical Pacific (ETP) seabirds, Parkinson's Petrels alone are adapted for recovering food scraps well below the surface. Parkinson's Petrels appear to be more dependent on marine mammals for foraging than any other species of seabird studied and feed diurnally more than was previously thought. 
10.2307/1368194|Male birds who replace other males on territories may kill, care for, or act indifferently towards offspring of the previous resident. In short-lived species, selection should favor adoption or indifference over infanticide only when the resident female is the only mate the replacement male is likely to obtain, and when this female will desert the male if her offspring are killed. We tested this hypothesis by removing 29 male House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) from territories in a population in which unpaired females are readily available as mates. Ten of 16 males that were subsequently observed on experimental territories removed offspring from nests as predicted. At least four resident females bred with these males. All infanticidal males paired within 72 hr of replacement and most subsequently fledged young of their own. An eleventh replacement male fed young after eggs hatched but disappeared before nestlings fledged. The five remaining males appeared indifferent to resident offspring. Unlike infanticidal males, however, indifferent males did not remain on territories continuously, court resident females, or attempt to attract a mate to the territory. No indifferent male bred on the territory. Our observations suggest that selection should strongly favor a "replacement-then-infanticide" strategy among unsettled male House Wrens in this population. However, for reasons yet unknown, some males fail to complete this sequence of behaviors.
10.2307/1370445|Breeding Bird Surveys (BBS) are conducted along roadside routes to enable a large geographic area to be surveyed. Yet the potential biases of sampling populations only from roadsides have received little attention. We sampled aerial photography of BBS routes taken in the mid-1960s and late-1980s to evaluate whether habitat changes that occurred along roadsides were also occurring in the surrounding area, and whether the frequency of habitats encountered along roadsides were similar to that off-route. We examined 28 routes in Maryland and 25 routes in Ohio, and defined roadside area as within 200 m of the road, and off-route as 200-1,600 m from the road. Most habitat changes that occurred along BBS roadsides also were occurring in the off-route areas. However, increases in urban cover were significantly greater along the road in Maryland where urbanization of farmland was the predominant habitat change. The small increase in urban cover in Ohio was not significantly greater along the road. Construction of single family homes was greater along BBS roadsides in both states. In Ohio, the greatest change in habitat was the conversion of farmland back to forest, which was not significantly greater along the road. Changes associated with urbanization were more biased towards roadsides than the reforestation of farmland. Within one time period, roadside areas had less forest and more agricultural and urban cover types than occurred off-route.
1370630| The last wild California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus) was brought into captivity in 1987. Captive breeding was successful and reintroduction efforts began in 1992. The current population is descended from 14 individuals belonging to three genetic "clans." This population bottleneck led to the loss of genetic variation and changes in allele frequencies, including a probable increase in the frequency of the putative allele for chondrodystrophy, a lethal form of dwarfism. We use studbook data to analyze the current genetic and demographic status of the population and explain how it is managed to meet specific goals. In August 2002 the population consisted of 206 individuals distributed among three captive-breeding facilities and three reintroduction sites. The population is managed to preserve genetic diversity using the concept of mean kinship. Growth of the total population has been between 10% and 15% per year since 1987, but the growth of the captive population has been only about 5% per year since 1992 due to the removal of chicks for reintroduction. Assuming that founding birds within clans were half-siblings, the birds used to found the captive population theoretically contained 92% of the heterozygosity present in the hypothetical wild base population. About 99.5% of this heterozygosity has been retained in the current population. Alleles from most founders are well represented across captive-breeding facilities and reintroduction sites. The genetic status of this population compares favorably with other species that have been rescued from extinction by captive breeding. /// El ltimo cndor californiano (Gymnogyps californianus) silvestre fue puesto en cautiverio en 1987. La reproduccin en cautiverio fue exitosa y las reintroducciones comenzaron en 1992. La poblacin actual desciende de 14 individuos pertenecientes a tres "clanes" genticos. Este cuello de botella poblacional di lugar a la prdida de variabilidad gentica y a cambios en la frecuencia de alelos, incluyendo un probable incremento en la frecuencia del alelo para condrodistrofia, una forma letal de enanismo. En este estudio, utilizamos datos del libro genealgico para analizar la situacin gentica y demogrfica actual de la poblacin y para explicar cmo se est manejando la poblacin para cumplir con metas especficas. En agosto del 2002 la poblacin consista de 206 individuos distribuidos en tres instalaciones de reproduccin en cautiverio y tres sitios de reintroduccin. La poblacin fue manejada con el propsito de conservar la diversidad gentica usando el concepto de parentesco medio. El crecimiento de la poblacin ha sido de entre 10% y 15% por ao desde 1987, pero el crecimiento de la poblacin en cautiverio ha sido nicamente de aproximadamente un 5% por ao desde 1992 debido a la remocin de los pollos para su reintroduccin. Suponiendo que los cndores fundadores dentro de cada clan eran mediohermanos, las aves que fueron utilizadas para fundar la poblacin en cautiverio tericamente contienen un 92% de la heterocigosidad presente en la poblacin silvestre base hipottica. Cerca de un 99.5% de esta heterocigosidad ha sido retenida en la poblacin actual. Alelos de la mayora de los fundadores estn bien representados en las diversas instalaciones de reproduccin en cautiverio y sitios de reintroduccin. La situacin de esta poblacin parece ser mejor que la de otras especies silvestres que han sido rescatadas por medio de la reproduccin en cautiverio. 
4122536| Disturbance-dependent species are assumed to benefit from forestry practices that mimic the appearance of postdisturbance landscapes. However, human activities that closely mimic the appearance but not the fundamental quality of natural habitats could attract animals to settle whether or not these habitats are suitable for their survival or reproduction. We examined habitat selection behavior and nest success of Olive-sided Flycatchers (Contopus cooperi) in a naturally occurring burned forest and an anthropogenically created habitat type-selectively harvested forest. Olive-sided Flycatcher density and nestling provisioning rates were greater in the selectively harvested landscape, whereas estimated nest success in selectively harvested forest was roughly half that found in naturally burned forest. Reduced nest success was probably a result of the relatively high abundance of nest predators found in the artificially disturbed forest. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that selectively harvested forest can act as an "ecological trap" by attracting Olive-sided Flycatchers to a relatively poor-quality habitat type. This highlights the importance of considering animal behavior in biodiversity conservation. /// Se supone que las especies que dependen de las perturbaciones se benefician de aquellas prcticas forestales que imitan la apariencia de los paisajes naturales despus del las perturbaciones. Sin embargo, las actividades humanas que imitan de manera cercana la apariencia pero no la calidad fundamental de los hbitats naturales pueden atraer animales que se establecen independientemente de que dichos hbitats sean los ms adecuados o no para su sobrevivencia o reproduccin. Estudiamos el comportamiento de seleccin del hbitat y el xito reproductivo de Contopus cooperi en un bosque quemado naturalmente y en un tipo de hbitat creado antropognicamente-bosque con extraccin selectiva. Las densidades y las tasas de alimentacin de los polluelos de C. cooperi fueron mayores en las zonas con extraccin selectiva, mientras que el xito reproductivo estimado fue de casi la mitad en el paisaje con extraccin selectiva en comparacin con el bosque quemado naturalmente. El reducido xito reproductivo fue probablemente el resultado de la mayor abundancia de depredadores de nidos en el bosque con perturbacin artificial. Los resultados concuerdan con la hiptesis de que los bosques con extraccin selectiva pueden actuar como "trampas ecolgicas" atrayendo a C. cooperi a un tipo de hbitat de calidad relativamente pobre. Este hecho destaca la importancia de considerar el comportamiento animal en la conservacin de la biodiversidad. 
40306167|Documenting birdhabitat relationships by statistical modeling has been a cornerstone of avian ecology for decades, but rarely is the predictive capacity of such models tested. To evaluate how well quantitative models of habitat relationships developed during an initial survey period predicted species distributions and/or abundances in a later period, in 1997 we revisited 13 shrubsteppe sites that we had previously surveyed from 1977 through 1983. Using multiple regression (linear and logistic) and classification and regression trees (CART), we developed habitat models for each species based on the "historic" period.
10.2307/1369361|Studies using measurements of  <sup>15</sup>N to delineate diet or trophic level in natural ecosystems are based on the premise that  <sup>15</sup>N values in consumer tissues can be reliably correlated with those in the diet. However, juvenile Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) fed a rationed diet designed to maintain, but not increase, body mass showed significantly enriched tissue  <sup>15</sup>N values over a control group fed the same diet ad libitum. We tested the hypothesis that fasting or nutritional stress can also cause elevated  <sup>15</sup>N values in tissues of wild birds by examining tissues of Arctic-nesting female Ross' Geese (Chen rossii) before and after their period of fasting during egg laying and incubation. Significant declines in body, pectoral muscle, liver and abdominal fat mass occurred from arrival through incubation. Post-incubating geese showed significantly higher pectoral muscle and liver  <sup>15</sup>N values compared to geese taken before clutch initiation but  <sup>13</sup>C values in these tissues were unchanged. We hypothesize a mechanism of tissue  <sup>15</sup>N enrichment due to reduced nutrient intake and discuss the implications of these results to ecosystem studies using stable-nitrogen isotope analysis.
4096553|Abdominal profile indices were developed to evaluate body condition in birds without capturing or handling them. We assessed the reliability of abdominal profile indices in predicting condition of spring staging Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica). We first calibrated profile scores assigned to females against two direct measures of nutrient stores, abdominal fat and body mass corrected for body size. Abdominal profile indices were linearly and significantly related to both abdominal fat and body mass but the variance was high for individuals assigned to the same profile score (R
10.1525/cond.2010.100152|Animals are subject to ecological traps when anthropogenic changes create habitat that appears suitable but when selected results in decreased fitness. The Rusty Blackbird (
10.2307/1370071| We examined the development of endothermy in White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) chicks during the first 16 days after hatching, which corresponds with the age at which parent pelicans begin to cease brooding behavior. At ambient temperatures between 20 and 25C, pelican chicks progressively increased their thermoregulatory capabilities with age; average thermal competence increased with each age increment while average cooling rates declined with each age increment. Thermoneutral metabolic rates increased initially with age, reaching a maximum at day 10, then declined. Whole body conductance and minimum conductance generally declined with age. Our results suggest that, although pelican chicks reach a modest degree of incipient endothermy by day 7, thermoregulatory self-sufficiency is not well developed until day 16. The age at which endothermy becomes well developed in pelicans is similar to those reported for other large pelecaniform species. 
10.2307/1368062|We evaluated recruitment by American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) and Black-necked Stilts (Himantopus mexicanus) in 1984 and 1985 at the selenium-contaminated Kesterson Reservoir and at a nearby reference site, the Volta Wildlife Area, both in western Merced County, California. Nests were monitored to determine their outcomes, including hatching success, and broods were censused three times per week during the breeding season. Chicks were counted and broods classified according to age. Although large numbers of chicks were presumed to have hatched at Kesterson, only one chick older than about 2 weeks of age was observed there during the 2-year study. It is unlikely that chicks of either species survived to fledging at Kesterson during the study period, whereas one-month-old or older avocet and stilt broods were seen both years at Volta. Selenium occurred at high concentrations in food-chain organisms only at Kesterson and was the most likely cause of the recruitment failure of stilts and avocets at Kesterson Reservoir.
10.2307/1367943|I censused birds across a moisture gradient in northern Patagonia, Argentina, in the vicinity of Bariloche. Over a 60-km distance, the 12 sites ranged from grassland at lower elevations to upland climax Nothofagus forests of the eastern Andes. Here, I correlated bird abundance and diversities with various vegetation measures. Using all sites, bird diversities and abundances were positively correlated with various foliage measures. When grasslands were excluded, however, an inverse relationship was found: birds were more diverse and abundant in the lower stature shrub communities than in complex forests. Multiple regression analyses of this apparently paradoxical situation indicated that certain species of plants probably had important effects on community structure.
10.2307/1369805| Transmitters were attached to four adult male Cory's Shearwaters (Calonectris diomedea) caught at their breeding sites off Crete, Greece, in autumn 1998. The birds had left the Mediterranean by the beginning of December. Two were last recorded in the eastern tropical Atlantic in January/February. The other two wintered east of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, one at about 10N, the other one in equatorial waters, and could be tracked until return migration in March/April. The seasonal variation in travel speed is in accordance with a conventional pattern of migration with phases of migration and wintering, rather than continuous movement throughout the nonbreeding cycle. The birds left the Mediterranean later and wintered farther north than expected. We suggest that the known longitudinal cline in body size, morphology, and vocalizations of Cory's Shearwater may also be found in migration behavior. 
10.2307/1369660|We studied the energy and protein balance of a Thrush Nightingale Luscinia luscinia, a small long-distance migrant, during repeated 12-hr long flights in a wind tunnel and during subsequent two-day fueling periods. From the energy budgets we estimated the power requirements for migratory flight in this 26 g bird at 1.91 Watts. This is low compared to flight cost estimates in birds of similar mass and with similar wing shape. This suggests that power requirements for migratory flight are lower than the power requirements for nonmigratory flight. From excreta production during flight, and nitrogen and energy balance during subsequent fueling, the dry protein proportion of stores was estimated to be around 10%. A net catabolism of protein during migratory flight along with that of fat may reflect a physiologically inevitable process, a means of providing extra water to counteract dehydration, a production of uric acid for anti-oxidative purposes, and adaptive changes in the size of flight muscles and digestive organs in the exercising animal.
4122513| Over the past decade, the field of molecular genetics has revolutionized our understanding of avian mating systems, by demonstrating that social bonds might not accurately reflect parentage because of unknown levels of cryptic mating (e.g., extra-pair copulations). Use of molecular genetics tools for paternity analysis requires genetic material from putative parents and nestlings. Unfortunately, high nest predation rates often preclude detailed genetic studies of tropical taxa. Here, we describe a nondestructive method that increases the efficiency of obtaining genetic material from offspring for a group of tropical passerines (Pipridae). The method entails replacing eggs with plaster replicas, incubating eggs artificially, and returning hatchlings to their original nests for further development. This method greatly improved our ability to sample offspring, as we collected genetic material from 100% of manipulated nests, compared to 52% of unmanipulated nests. /// Durante la ltima dcada, el campo de la gentica molecular ha revolucionado el entendimiento de los sistemas de apareamiento de las aves, demostrando que los lazos sociales observados pueden no reflejar paternidad con precisin, debido a niveles desconocidos de apareamiento crptico (e.g., copulaciones extra-pareja). El uso de herramientas de gentica molecular para el anlisis de paternidad requiere material gentico de padres putativos y polluelos. Desafortunadamente, la alta tasa de depredacin de nidos en especies tropicales usualmente impide la realizatin de estudios genticos detallados. Aqu se describe un mtodo no destructivo que incrementa la eficacia para obtener material gentico de polluelos de un grupo de aves paseriformes tropicales (Pipridae). El mtodo consiste en reemplazar huevos con replicas de yeso, incubar los huevos artificialmente y devolver los polluelos a los nidos originales para su posterior desarrollo. Este mtodo increment significativamente nuestra habilidad de muestrear polluelos, pudiendo colectar material gentico del 100% de los nidos manipulados, comparado con una colecta de material gentico de slo el 52% de los nidos no manipulados. 
10.2307/1368479|Intradialect variation in the song of 138 male Nuttall's White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) was examined using multivariate cluster analyses on both quantitative (frequency and temporal) and qualitative (structural) variables. Mapping of song groups revealed local song clusters with a high degree of spatial overlap and the occurrence of "satellite" males located well outside the spatial cluster of their song type. This pattern is suggestive of predispersal song learning and is thus more consistent with the genetic adaptation hypothesis than with one version of the deceptive mimicry hypothesis.
10.2307/1367217|We examined nest site selection in Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) nesting on three islands in the Culebra National Wildlife Refuge, Puerto Rico, to determine if gull nest sites showed consistent characteristics differing from most of the available habitat, to compare nest site characteristics on islands with different vegetative cover, and to contrast nest site choices on these tropical island colonies with colonies that we have studied on the northern Atlantic coast of mainland United States. At Culebra, Laughing Gulls nested with Royal, Sandwich, and Bridled terns (Sterna maxima, S. sandvicensis, S. anaethetus), Brown Noddies (Anous stolidus), and Brown Boobies (Sula leucogaster), but their nearest neighbors were usually conspecifics. The gulls' nest sites generally differed from random points with respect to percent cover, vegetation height, visibility, and distance from clearings. Compared to the random points, gull nests were under denser vegetation of intermediate height with high visibility from their nests and with less cover around their nests. Their choice of nest sites provided protection and cover from predators and the sun. Dense and tall vegetation would hinder gulls from flying directly from their nests, and many nests were thus near rocks or clearings, which allowed the gulls to exit quickly. Laughing Gulls nesting on the Culebran cays generally nested in taller, denser vegetation than those nesting farther north along the Atlantic coast, which partially reflects temperature differences between the localities.
10.2307/1370145|Colonization patterns of House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) provide a rare opportunity to study regional differences in songs associated with differences in colonization histories. House Finches have undergone two different types of colonization events in the mainland United States which have given rise to differences in singing among three regions. In this study, I describe songs of House Finches that have recently colonized southeastern Wisconsin at the western edge of their expanding eastern range. Song stereotypy, repertoire size, and song sharing patterns in Wisconsin differ from those of eastern and western House Finches. An earlier House Finch colonization of the East Coast, by the parental West Coast stock, resulted in an increased rigidity of song syntax, decreased repertoire size, and increased song sharing. Colonization of Wisconsin by East Coast stock, however, has led to a decreased rigidity of syntax, increased repertoire size and decreased song sharing. The two colonization events differ markedly in the numbers of founders and the size of the area from which potential colonizers may have originated. Differences in singing between these two areas may have been influenced by the amount of heterogeneity of song types present during the early stages of colony establishment.
10.2307/1369101|We assessed variation in body mass of ducklings in single- and mixed-species broods of wild Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) and Redheads (Aythya americana) 20-50 days old. Body mass of canvasback ducklings was not affected by year and season (early vs. late hatch date) despite changes in water conditions. Mean body mass of male and female Canvasbacks did not differ in Class IIA but did differ in older age classes. Within-brood differences in body mass tended to be higher in Class IIA ducklings (6-7% of mean body mass for Canvasbacks, 9-11% in Redheads) and generally declined to 4-6% in Class IIC and older ducklings. Some within-brood differences were as high as 20-30% of mean body mass. Tests to assess sources of within-brood variation (age, sex, and season) in body mass for Canvasbacks were inconclusive. Variation within broods was generally less than that among broods for both Canvasbacks and Redheads. The lack of differences in duckling body mass between single- and mixed-species broods for any age class, sex, or species suggests that mass was not affected by interspecific brood parasitism.
10.2307/1369038| Annual survival, age, and sex ratios of the endangered Palila (Loxioides bailleui) on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, were determined from multiple captures and resightings of 984 individuals during 1987-1993. The proportion of Second Year (SY) Palila in the population was relatively constant among years, whereas the proportion of Hatching Year (HY) birds ranged from 3.1 to 22.6% over three years. Sex ratios of nestling and SY Palila did not differ from unity, but the sex ratio of HY and ASY Palila was male-biased. Mean proportion of adult males was 63.7%  1.8 SE, and males outnumbered females in all six years of the study. Mean annual survival of HY Palila (0.36  0.08) was lower than that of After Hatching Year (AHY) birds (0.63  0.05), but annual survival of AHY males (0.65  0.07) did not differ from that of AHY females (0.62  0.06). Survival was negatively correlated with annual changes in the availability of green mamane (Sophora chrysophylla) pods, the primary food of Palila. The skewed adult sex ratio may result from greater emigration or mortality of HY females, or from greater mortality of breeding females due to increased exposure to predation. 
10.2307/1369388|Predation was the largest cause of failure in 1,132 Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha nests, followed by desertion and inclement weather. Mean annual predation rate was 29.9% and did not vary significantly over the 19 years of the study. This was attributed to the presence of a large, stable population of Belding's ground squirrels, a known predator on Z. l. oriantha nests. Predation rate was highest during the nestling period, next highest during laying, and lowest during incubation. Mean daily predation rate for the whole nesting cycle was 2.0% per day. Investigator activities at nests frequently caused desertion during laying but seldom thereafter. These activities may have attracted predators on occasion but no convincing, pervasive effect could be demonstrated. Antipredator behaviors included several distraction displays and seasonal shifts in nest locations from above-ground to ground and from pines to willows. Predators at the nest were vigorously attacked but usually to no avail. Nest predation rates did not vary with parental age nor with clutch size.
10.2307/1367562|Herring Gull chicks are relatively variable in body weight gain and fat content, but are more regular in linear skeletal growth. Developmental patterns of the internal organs of the semi-precocial gulls resemble those reported for altricial nestlings, but age-related changes in body fat and water content are more similar to those of precocial species. Increases in live-weight caloric values with age, from about 1.0 to 2.0 kcal/g, are related to increasing fat and decreasing water contents throughout the growing period.
10.2307/1368449|Pairing in 141 pairs of Pinyon Jays (Gymnorhinus cyanocephalus) was assortative for age, but was random for bill length and body weight. Assortative pairing for age may be favored because similar-aged partners produced slightly more young than dissimilar-aged ones and their young survived longer than young from dissimilar-aged pairs. We expected pairing to be disassortative for size because pairs consisting of heavy females and light males were more fit than pairs consisting of two heavy or two light birds. Pairs of heavy females and light mates fought less, lived longer, and produced young that lived longer and produced more offspring than young from partners of other size categories. Lack of significant disassortment for size may have resulted because large males may dominate small males and prefer to pair with some of the large, long-lived females. Large jays appear to have the highest genetic quality because they lived longer and body size was heritable. Genetic quality of a mate, however, may be negated if phenotypic properties of partners are not compatible.
10.2307/1370408|Vocal signals of a species are social signals and guides to its social life. Sound spectrograms were made of 21 of the 26 vocal signals in the extensive vocal repertoire of the African Village Weaver (Ploceus cucullatus). A spectrographic key to vocal signals helps make these signals comparable for different investigators. Short-distance contact calls are given in favorable situations and are generally characterized by low amplitude and great brevity of notes. Alarm cries are longer, louder, and often strident calls with much energy at high frequencies, whereas threat notes, also relatively long and harsh, emphasize lower frequencies. Each male displays his newest nest in a colony with an individually distinctive call to unmated females. The most harmonic calls of the species include a loud call by a male when an unmated female first enters his nest, and also very soft, brief notes given by parent birds to attract a fledgling. Males use somewhat different songs to defend territory, for courtship, and for advertisement. Application of Darwin's (1872) principle of antithesis suggests that vocal signals are composed of basic elements that vary in duration, frequency, loudness, and tonality of notes. These variations can be arranged in pairs of opposite extremes serving to reduce ambiguity in signals, in effect a communication code. At the same time, other selection pressures can enter in according to circumstances to modify the expression of this basic code in evolution.
10.2307/1367420|Mandarte Island, British Columbia, was colonized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) after an intensive study of the resident Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) population. I studied the Song Sparrow population from 1975 to 1979, when it was parasitized by one to three female cowbirds a year. Breeding success was lower than during the earlier study, but comparisons of breeding success before and after the arrival of cowbirds each year and after cowbird removal in 1977 suggested that cowbirds were not a major cause of the reduced breeding success. Parasitism depressed the breeding success of adult female Song Sparrows by 0.6 independent young per nest and that of yearling females by 0.5 independent young per nest. The costs of parasitism were almost entirely due to egg removal by female cowbirds. Parasitized nests of adult females contained 0.8 fewer eggs than unparasitized nests. The corresponding figure for yearling females was 0.5 eggs. Nests of adult females were parasitized twice as often as nests of yearling females. A behavioral explanation is proposed for this last difference. Song Sparrows with cowbird nest mates weighed less than control young, but survival of young from six days after hatching to independence did not decrease if there was a cowbird in the brood. Female Song Sparrows that were parasitized one or more times during a breeding season raised as many young to independence per year as females that were not parasitized. This was because parasitized females made more breeding attempts per year.
40072417|Knowledge of how landscape structure influences patterns of animal space use is critical to developing sustainable landscape management practices. For breeding songbirds that defend a territory embedded within a larger home range, effects of structural change on movement may be manifested at multiple spatial scales. We used radio-telemetry to assess within-territory and home range space use as functions of the proportion of clearcut-harvested versus naturally unforested land for two species of Neotropical migrant songbirds. We tested whether these relationships varied with spatial scale by assessing landscape structure in both the local neighborhood (115 m radius around an individual's territory center) and across the landscape (1250 m radius). Territory size for riparian-associated male Northern Waterthrushes (
10.2307/1368063|Substantial carbonate deposits were observed on rectrices of Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) collected during 1982-1984 on evaporation ponds in the San Joaquin Valley, California. Carbonate deposits were composed of about 75% aragonite and 25% calcite, both polymorphous forms of CaCO
10.2307/1369528|Bird populations in a subtropical wet forest were monitored every two to three weeks with mist nets and point counts beginning two weeks after the passage of Hurricane Hugo in September 1989. The results were compared with those of a pre-hurricane study in the same locations in which birds were sampled in forest understory and openings. Capture rates were initially higher than in the previous study, due to displaced canopy dwellers foraging in the understory. The shift of canopy dwellers may have obscured expected declines in nectarivores and fruit/seedeaters and contributed to increased detections of omnivores and insectivores. Bird captures and fruit production peaked 93-156 days after the storm in pre-existing gaps, where higher capture rates and a distinct assemblage of birds occurred in contrast to sites without fruit (forest understory and a powerline opening). Captures in pre-existing gaps decreased as fruit production ceased, and overall captures declined to baseline levels after 198 days. After one year of recovery, new gaps and forest understory became distinguishable on the basis of their unique foliage profiles. Although different bird assemblages had been found in forest understory and in gaps prior to the hurricane, these assemblages lost their distinctiveness after the storm. It may take many years after a hurricane for forest understory and gaps to become sufficiently distinct in structure and resources before birds differentiate between the two habitats.
10.2307/1368741|Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) have medium-sized song repertoires and have been the main example for the generalization that neighbor recognition is weaker in species with larger song repertoires. Three previous studies of the Song Sparrow have indicated that neighbor-stranger discrimination by song is weak or absent in this species. In contrast to the previous studies, we found that territorial male Song Sparrows readily discriminated between neighbors and strangers based on a single song type from each. This result is strong and unequivocal evidence of neighbor-stranger discrimination in this species. We also present evidence that stability of neighbor boundaries may be required to demonstrate neighbor-stranger discrimination.
10.2307/1367509|When mobbing potential predators, male Phainopeplas (Phainopepla nitens) utter smoothly upswept vocalizations, unlike the harsh, staccato mobbing calls of other birds and mammals. A Phainopepla repeats this call as it approaches the bottom of its diving arc over the predator. We suggest that these calls do not serve to attract additional mobbers to the scene. Rather, they appear to emphasize the diving attacks directed toward the predator.
10.2307/1366808|Geographic variation in song, a learned characteristic of White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys), was compared to variation in morphological, physiological, and allozyme traits across an intergrade between two subspecies. Along the north coast of California, the song structure typical of the southern Z. l. nuttalli extended throughout the entire intergrade zones of the other characters. Not until reaching the extreme north end of the intergrade with the northern distributed Z. l. pugetensis were any Z. l. pugetensis song characteristics encountered. It is at the north end of the intergrade that the birds become migratory (Blanchard 1942) and other workers have identified this as the clear demarcation between subspecies. One possible theory is that if the subspecies met in secondary contact near what is now a fairly abrupt transition between migratory and non-migratory behavior, and this contact was established after the last glacial period, then little erosion has occurred in the cultural transmission of song over many generations. Over the same time scale, however, gene flow has occurred at least 100 km to the south and perhaps farther.
10.1525/cond.2011.100117|Small black-and-white shearwaters of the genus
4096513| We studied survival of adult Tawny Owls (Strix aluco), number of breeding pairs, breeding performance, and offspring sex ratio in relation to the number of snowy days in the preceding winter in Duna-Ipoly National Park, Hungary. A new male was more likely to be present after a winter with many snowy days, although female survival was not affected by weather. Number of breeding pairs and number of fledglings declined with increasing number of snowy days. Offspring sex ratio varied according to whether snow cover was present during the egg-laying period, with broods being male biased during adverse conditions but female biased during mild conditions. Also, female nestlings were more likely to die before fledging than male nestlings. These data suggest that female Tawny Owls are able to adjust the sex ratio of their brood according to the expected differential success of nestlings under the prevailing weather conditions. This adjustment in relation to environmental conditions has important implications for the demography of Tawny Owl breeding populations. /// Estudiamos la supervivencia de los adultos de Strix aluco, el nmero de parejas reproductivas, el desempeo reproductive y el cociente de sexos de las cras con relacin al nmero de das con nieve en el invierno precedente en el Parque Nacional Duna-Ipoly, Hungr a. Un macho nuevo tuvo mayor probabilidad de estar presente luego de un invierno con muchos das con nieve, aunque la supervivencia de las hembras no estuvo afectada por el clima. El nmero de parejas reproductivas y el nmero de volantones dis-minuyeron con un incremento en el nmero de das con nieve. El cociente de sexos de las cras vari de acuerdo con la presencia de cobertura de nieve durante el perodo de puesta de los huevos: las nidadas estuvieron sesgadas hacia los machos durante perodos de condiciones adversas y sesgadas hacia las hembras durante perodos de condiciones moderadas. Adems, los pichones hembra tuvieron mayor probabilidad de morir antes de dejar el nido que los machos. Estos datos sugieren que las hembras de S. aluco son capaces de ajustar el cociente de sexos de sus nidadas de acuerdo al xito diferencial esperado de los pichones bajo las condiciones climticas dominantes. Este ajuste relacionado con las condiciones ambientales tiene implicancias importantes para la demografa de las poblaciones reproductivas de S. aluco. 
10.2307/1370238|Hunting associations between Aplomado Falcons (Falco femoralis) and maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus) were observed in six occasions in Emas National Park, central Brazil. Falcons were successful in 25% of their hunting attempts. This association benefits the birds that hunt flushing tinamous missed by the wolf's attack. The predominant grassland habitat of the park enables the falcon to pursue prey in flight that were flushed by the wolf from tall dense grass.
1370668| Interspecific variation in sexual size dimorphism has commonly been attributed to variation in social mating system, with dimorphism increasing as intrasexual competition for mates increases. In birds, overall body size has also been found to correlate positively with size dimorphism. In this study, we describe variation in morphology and mating system across six populations of the endemic Galpagos Hawk (Buteo galapagoensis). Galpagos Hawks exhibit cooperative polyandry, a mating system in which long-term social groups contain a single female and multiple males. Comparisons among islands revealed significant differences in overall body size for both adults and immatures. Populations ranged from completely monogamous to completely polyandrous, with varying mean group sizes. Data did not support our prediction that sexual size dimorphism would increase with the degree of polyandry (number of males per group) or with body size; there was no correlation between mating system and sexual dimorphism. We did find a significant negative relationship between degree of polyandry and body size among islands, opposite of the pattern predicted. /// Variacin interespecfica en dimorfismo sexual ha sido atribuda comnmente a variaciones del sistema social de apareamiento, de tal manera que el dimorfismo aumenta conforme aumenta la competencia intrasexual por parejas reproductivas. Tambin se ha encontrado que el tamao corporal se correlaciona positivamente con el dimorfismo. En este estudio describimos la variacin morfolgica y el grado de poliandra de seis poblaciones de Buteo galapagoensis, una especie que exhibe un sistema de apareamiento denominado poliandra cooperativa. En este sistema los grupos de individuos reproductivos incluyen una sola hembra y mltiples machos. Se comprob que existen diferencias significativas en el tamao del cuerpo de adultos y juveniles entre islas. Las poblaciones muestreadas variaron entre mongamas y completamente polindricas, y el tamao promedio de los grupos fue variable. Los datos no apoyaron las predicciones establecidas inicialmente pues el grado de dimorfismo sexual no aument con el nivel de poliandra (nmero de machos por grupo) ni con el tamao corporal, ni hubo una correlacin entre el sistema de apareamiento y el dimorfismo sexual. La relacin entre el tamao corporal y el sistema de apareamiento fue contraria a la que se predijo: hubo una correlacin negativa significativa entre el grado de poliandra y el tamao corporal entre islas. 
10.2307/1368493| We studied the genetic population structure of California Quail (Callipepla californica). This relatively sedentary gallinaceous species has differentiated geographically in ecological features and morphology. In California and Baja California, we obtained samples of quail (101 total birds) from a total of seven sites representing six of the eight recognized subspecies. We analyzed genetic variation at 37 protein-coding loci using starch gel electrophoresis. Levels of within population genetic variation, such as average heterozygosity per individual (3.2%), percentage of loci polymorphic (18.1%), and mean number of alleles per locus (1.32), are similar to values reported for other birds, both passerines and nonpasserines. Genotypic distributions did not differ significantly from Hardy-Weinberg expectations. Geographic partitioning of genetic variation was slight. F
40072356|With more than 50 described subspecies occurring throughout Southeast Asia and Micronesia and a wide array of morphological and ecological variation, the Island Thrush (
1370112| We quantified the relationship between Black-legged Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla) nest-site characteristics and risk of predation by Great Black-backed (Larus marinus) and Herring (L. argentatus) Gulls at Gull Island, Newfoundland, Canada, during 1998 and 1999. We monitored kittiwake nesting cliffs to identify nest sites attacked by large gulls and compared characteristics of attacked and successful nests among four study plots. We also examined which nest sites were attacked by Herring or Great Black-backed Gulls during calm (10 km hr<sup>-1</sup>) or windy conditions (>10 km hr<sup>-1</sup>). We found that kittiwake nests on plots with fewer nests were more likely to be attacked by gulls and less likely to fledge young. Nest density and nest location relative to the cliffs' upper edges significantly affected the risk of gull predation. Breeding success was correlated with nest density and ledge width and differed significantly among plots. Regardless of wind conditions both gull species were more likely to attack nests located on upper sections of cliffs than nests on lower sections. However, during calm conditions, nest sites located on narrow ledges were less likely to be attacked by Great Black-backed Gulls. Our results demonstrate that for kittiwake colonies where predation is an important source of breeding failure, the size of subcolonies and nest density affect the survival of kittiwake offspring. /// Cuantificamos la relacin entre las caractersticas de los sitios de nidificacin de Rissa tridactyla y el riesgo de depredacin por parte de Larus marinus y L. argentatus en la Isla Gull, Newfoundland, Canad, durante 1998 y 1999. Con el objetivo de identificar los nidos atacados por gaviotas de gran tamao, monitoreamos acantilados de nidificacin de R. tridactyla en cuatro localidades de estudio y comparamos las caractersticas de los nidos atacados y exitosos. Tambin examinamos qu nidos fueron atacados por L. marinus o por L. argentatus durante condiciones de viento calmo (10 km hr<sup>-1</sup>) o ventosas (>10 km hr<sup>-1</sup>). Encontramos que los nidos de R. tridactyla ubicados en localidades con menor nmero de nidos tuvieron mayor probabilidad de ser atacados y menor probabilidad de criar volantones. Tanto la densidad como la ubicacin de los nidos en relacin al vrtice superior del acantilado afectaron significativamente el riesgo de depredacin por gaviotas. El xito de cra se diferenci significativamente entre localidades y se correlacion con la densidad de nidos y con el ancho de la plataforma. Independientemente de la velocidad del viento, las dos especies de gaviotas atacaron con mayor probabilidad a los nidos ubicados en las secciones superiores del acantilado que en las secciones inferiores. Sin embargo, durante condiciones de viento calmo, los nidos localizados en plataformas angostas presentaron una menor probabilidad de ser atacados por L. marinus. Nuestros resultados demuestran que para colonias de R. tridactyla en las cuales la depredacin de nidos es un factor importante en el fracaso reproductivo, el tamao de las subcolonias y la densidad de nidos afecta la supervivencia de la progenie de R. tridactyla. 
10.2307/1368815|Activity budgets of individual American Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) wintering on the north coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico, were measured from mid-January through mid-March 1989 for feeding aggregations ranging in size from 1-8,000 individuals to determine potential social influences on foraging. For groups of <3,500, aggregation size was related positively (r = 0.90) to feeding head down, whereas feeding head up and alert behaviors were related negatively (r = -0.85 and r = -0.85, respectively). Overall, feeding time was higher and aggression was much lower than observed in foraging flocks of American Flamingos in Venezuela. We relate these differences to changes in food abundance and availability following Hurricane Gilbert.
40072446|Characteristics of successful vs. unsuccessful nest sites are likely to vary over time and space in response to habitat changes. I used the Thorn-tailed Rayadito (
4151052| We used count surveys and mist-net captures to compare habitat associations, relative abundance, species richness, and community similarity of migrant landbirds among four major habitats in the Boise Foothills of southwestern Idaho. Count surveys were conducted from August through October 1997-2000 in conifer forest, mountain shrubland, shrubsteppe, and riparian shrubland. We compared bird detections among habitats for all birds pooled, individual species, and three migration strategies: Neotropical, temperate, and resident (including irruptive migrants). Mountain shrubland supported the highest numbers of temperate migrants; both mountain shrubland and riparian shrubland had the highest numbers of Neotropical migrants; and conifer forest had the highest numbers of residents. Species richness was highest in riparian shrubland and lowest in shrubsteppe, whereas diversity and evenness were highest in conifer forest and mountain shrubland. Mist netting was conducted from mid-July to mid-October in two habitats: mountain shrubland (1997- 2002) and riparian shrubland (1998-1999). Captures (adjusted for effort) were compared among habitats in 1998-1999 and were similar for temperate migrants, whereas mountain shrubland had higher abundance of Neotropical migrants and riparian shrubland had higher abundance of irruptive migrants. Richness, diversity, and evenness were similar and there was high community similarity between mountain shrub and riparian shrubland habitats. These results emphasize the importance of montane habitats, especially deciduous shrub communities, to migrants in the Intermountain West. /// Empleamos muestreos por conteos y capturas con redes de niebla para comparar asociaciones de hbitat, abundancia relativa, riqueza de especies, y similitud entre comunidades de aves migratorias terrestres, presentes en los cuatro hbitats principales de piedemonte de Boise en el sudoeste de Idaho. Los conteos fueron realizados entre agosto hasta octubre de los aos 1997-2000 en bosque de conferas, hbitat de matorral de montaa, matorral de estepa, y en matorral ripario. Comparamos la deteccin de aves entre hbitats para todas las especies juntas, para cada especie por separado y para tres categoras de estrategia de migracin: especies migratorias neotropicales, especies migratorias de la zona templada y especies residentes (incluyendo migrantes irruptivas). El hbitat de matorral de montaa tuvo los nmeros ms altos de especies migratorias templadas. Los hbitats de matorral de montaa y matorral ripario tuvieron los nmeros ms altos de especies migratorias neotropicales y el bosque de conferas tuvo los nmeros ms altos de especies residentes. La riqueza de especies fue mayor en el matorral ripario y menor en el matorral de estepa, mientras que la diversidad y la equidad fueron mayores en bosque de conferas y matorral de montaa. El muestreo con redes de niebla se llev a cabo desde mediados de julio hasta mediados de octubre en dos hbitats: matorral de montaa (1997-2002) y matorral ripario (1998-1999). Las capturas (ajustadas por esfuerzo de muestreo) fueron comparadas entre hbitats en 1998-1999. La abundancia de las especies migratorias de la zona templada fue similar entre hbitats, mientras que el hbitat de matorral de montaa tuvo la mayor abundancia de especies migratorias neotropicales y el matorral ripario tuvo la mayor abundancia de especies migratorias irruptivas. La riqueza, la diversidad y la equidad fueron similares entre hbitats y las comunidades de los hbitats de matorral de montaa y matorral ripario presentaron alta similitud. Estos resultados enfatizan la importancia de los hbitats de montaa, especialmente la de los hbitats de comunidades arbustivas deciduas, para las especies migratorias en el oeste intermontano. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110036|The species composition of the Chilean avifauna is well-defined taxonomically but is not well known ecologically. We sampled avian communities at a biosphere reserve in coastal north-central Chile in three seasons over six years (18 surveys total) and characterized them in terms of community structure and composition. The avifauna (
10.2307/1369289|Two independent methods were used to quantify abundances and population structure of two paruline wood warblers, the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) and Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens), wintering in Jamaica, West Indies. One conventional 10-min point count was followed by 5 min each of redstart, then Black-throated Blue Warbler vocalizations (a mixture of territorial songs and chip notes recorded during the breeding season) at each of 585 points in 18 habitats. Age and sex composition of the target species were recorded along with observations of other species. Compared with conventional point counts, those supplemented with playback of vocalizations (1) detected 3.0 and 2.3 times more American Redstarts and Black-throated Blue Warblers, respectively, (2) disclosed significantly more individuals of three other migrant warbler species and one year-round resident species belonging to the "warbler guild," (3) facilitated identification of age and sex of target species by attracting them closer to the observer, and (4) confirmed that wintering individuals of both species of warbler were dispersed as expected for a territorial species. Compared with yearling males and with females, older redstart males were observed significantly more frequently during playbacks than predicted by pre-playback relative frequencies. No such sex bias was found for Black-throated Blue Warblers, a species in which age cannot be reliably determined except with hand-held individuals. Diurnal variation in surveyed abundances of both species was relatively minor, but was significantly less pronounced for playback counts than for pre-vocalization counts in Black-throated Blue Warblers. Our results indicate that broadcast territorial advertisement vocalizations provide a powerful tool to study the ecology and distribution of neotropical migrant songbirds in winter.
10.1525/cond.2012.110186|The Bay-capped Wren-Spinetail (
1370695| The phylogenetic relationship of the Wrentit (Chamaea fasciata) to other passerine birds is understood poorly. A variety of taxa have been proposed as closely related to the Wrentit, but in general this species is placed in a monotypic taxon to emphasize its morphological distinctiveness and lack of clear relationship to other groups of birds. We used the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene to infer the relationship of this monotypic genus to other avian groups including representatives of Sylvioidea, Muscicapoidea, and Passeroidea. Results of this study corroborate in part earlier proposals based on DNA-DNA hybridization. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian phylogenetic analyses support the Wrentit, Sylvia, and babblers (Garrulax, Illadopsis, Leiothrix, Pomatorhinus, Stachyris, and Yuhina) as a clade, with the Wrentit sharing a more recent common ancestor with Sylvia than with babblers. A Sylvia and Wrentit associations is further supported by similarities in morphology and ecology. In addition to findings on Wrentit relationships, our study in general agrees with the major groups of oscine passerines identified by earlier DNA hybridization studies. /// La relacin filogentica de Chamaea fasciata con otros paserinos es vagamente entendida. Una variedad de taxa ha sido propuesta como relacionada cercanamente a C. fasciata, pero en general esta especie es situada en un taxn monotpico para enfatizar su morfologa distintiva y la falta de claridad en la relacin con otros grupos de aves. Utilizamos el gen del citocromo b mitocondrial para inferir la relacin de este gnero monotpico con otros grupos de aves incluyendo representantes de Sylviodea, Muscicapoidea y Passeroidea. Resultados de este estudio corroboran parcialmente propuestas anteriores basadas en hibridacin de ADN-ADN. Anlisis filogenticos de mxima parsimonia, de mxima probabilidad y bayesianos respaldan a C. fasciata, Sylvia, Garrulax, Illadopsis, Leiothrix, Pomatorhinus, Stachyris y Yuhina como un clado, con C. fasciata compartiendo un ancestro comn ms reciente con Sylvia. Una asociacin entre Sylvia y C. fasciata es respaldada por similitudes en morfologa y ecologa. En adicin a los descubrimientos en las relaciones de C. fasciata, nuestro estudio coincide en general con los grupos mayores de paserinos oscinos identificados en estudios previos mediante hibridacin de ADN. 
10.2307/1368528|Nest-site selection in American Coots (Fulica americana) was examined in 1981 and 1982 in pond habitat of south-central Saskatchewan. Breeding coots chose ponds having emergent vegetation in water and a low probability of becoming dry during the nesting and brood-rearing period. Comparison of nests and random sites indicated that nest location on ponds was governed by three factors in order of importance: (1) territoriality, (2) maximizing distance to shore in a large emergent zone width, and (3) vegetation density and height. In ponds having more than one species of emergent vegetation, territoriality and emergent zone width influenced the species in which coots nested. There was no relationship between nest concealment and the incidence of predation.
10.2307/1368845|In an attempt to determine the factors permitting sympatry of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) and Mountain Chickadees (P. gambeli) in southwestern Alberta, we examined nest-site utilization and foraging behavior during the summers of 1982 to 1984. Characteristics of both the nest tree itself, and the surrounding habitat, differed significantly between nest sites of the two species. Patterns of reuse of nest sites and behavioral observations suggested that some interspecific competition for nest sites may occur, but is probably not important. Foraging behavior differed significantly between the two species, suggesting that Black-capped and Mountain chickadees do not compete for food during the breeding season. Differences in habitat use by the two species apparently provide ecological segregation, and their coexistence on our study area is due to the mosaic nature of the habitat.
1370602| Songbird communities in the boreal forest of the Liard Valley, Northwest Territories, Canada, are described after three years of study. Point count stations (n = 195) were placed in six types of forest (mature deciduous, coniferous, and mixedwood; young forests; wooded bogs; clearcuts) in a 700-km
10.1525/cond.2010.090049|Long-distance migration between nonbreeding and breeding grounds involves use of multiple stopover sites where birds must refuel to meet the energetic demands of migration. Migrant forest birds that encounter urban landscapes experience high levels of habitat fragmentation and often use small, isolated forest patches. We investigated factors influencing stopover duration (length of stay) and migratory departure of Swainson's Thrushes (
10.2307/1370082|We examined whether plastic leg bands had short-term effects on foraging behavior in White-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta carolinensis), a species which, because of their very short legs and unusual habit of hanging upside-down on bark, may be particularly susceptible to deleterious effects of plastic bands. Ten nuthatches were outfitted with varying numbers of colored plastic bands and observed foraging in an aviary after two days of habituation. Wearing up to five plastic bands caused no detectable change in any of the variables measured: number of flights, body position, choice of foraging substrate, seed caching, seed hammering, and seed retrieval.
10.2307/1369789|We analyzed patterns of species richness, size, structure, and composition of mixed-species flocks in relation to forest fragment size and forest successional stage during dry and rainy seasons, at the state of Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil. Three forest fragments (1.7, 50, and 200 ha) were used for fragment size analysis, and two fragments (200 and 300 ha) were used for successional stage analysis. Fragment size and season affected flock richness, size, stability, and composition. In the 1.7-ha fragment, flock species richness, size, and stability were significantly different only during the rainy season. Fragment successional stage also influenced flock richness and size, although season did not. Flock composition also had changes related to fragment successional stage. Fragment geometry seems to be an important factor influencing flock structure and composition.
10.2307/1370426|We examined foraging site selection by White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) wintering in the Grasslands Ecological Area, which contains the second largest population of nonbreeding ibis in California. We compared habitat variables at White-faced Ibis foraging sites with paired, random locations in managed wetlands of the Grasslands. We contrasted the density and biomass of benthic macroinvertebrates between a subsample of bird foraging locations and random sites. Compared to random locations, the foraging locations of White-faced Ibis were closer to emergent vegetation > 10 cm in height. Moreover, ibis selected foraging locations with significantly higher chironomid and lower oligochaete biomasses relative to random sites. These findings suggest that ibis foraged close to vegetation where prey abundance may be greater and illustrate the importance of maintaining the presence of emergent vegetation in freshwater wetlands.
1370513| Recently burned forests in western North America provide nesting habitat for many species of cavity-nesting birds. However, little is understood about the time frame and the variables affecting occupancy of postfire habitats by these birds. We studied factors influencing the occupancy and reuse of nest cavities from 1-7 years after fire in two burned sites of western Idaho during 1994-1999. Tree cavities were used for nesting by 12 species of cavity nesters that were classified by the original occupant (strong excavator, weak excavator, or nonexcavator) of 385 nest cavities. We used logistic regression to model cavity occupancy by strong excavators (n = 575 trials) and weak excavators (n = 206 trials). Year after fire had the greatest influence on occupancy of nest cavities for both groups, while site of the burn was secondarily important in predicting occupancy by strong excavators and less important for weak excavators. Predicted probability of cavity occupancy was highest during the early years (1-4) after fire, declined over time (5-7 years after fire), and varied by site, with a faster decline in the smaller burned site with a greater mosaic of unburned forest. Closer proximity and greater interspersion of unburned forest (15% unburned) may have allowed a quicker recolonization by nest predators into the smaller burn compared to the larger burn with few patches of unburned forest (4% unburned). In combination with time and space effects, the predicted probability of cavity occupancy was positively affected by tree and nest heights for strong and weak excavators, respectively. /// Los bosques del oeste de Amrica del Norte que han sido recientemente quemados proveen hbitat de nidificacin para muchas especies de aves que nidifican en cavidades. Sin embargo, se sabe poco sobre el marco temporal y las variables que afectan la ocupacin por parte de las aves de los hbitats luego del fuego. Entre 1994 y 1999, estudiamos los factores que influencian la ocupacin y el uso repetido de las cavidades de nidificacin entre 1 y 7 aos luego del fuego, en dos sitios quemados en el oeste de Idaho. Las cavidades de los rboles fueron usadas para nidificar por 12 especies de aves, las que fueron clasificadas (385 cavidades) segn el ocupante original (excavador fuerte, excavador dbil y no excavador). Usamos regresin logstica para modelar la ocupacin de las cavidades por parte de excavadores fuertes (n = 575 pruebas) y dbiles (n = 206 pruebas). El ao luego del fuego tuvo la mayor influencia en la ocupacin de las cavidades de nidificacin para ambos grupos, mientras que el sitio de la quema tuvo una importancia secundaria en predecir la ocupacin por parte de excavadores fuertes y menos importancia por parte de excavadores dbiles. La probabilidad predicha de ocupacin de las cavidades fue mayor durante los primeros aos (1-4) luego del fuego, declin con el tiempo (5-7 aos luego del fuego) y vari entre sitios, con una disminucin ms rpida en el sitio quemado ms pequeo que present un mayor mosaico de bosque no quemado. La proximidad y la mayor dispersin de bosques no quemados (15% no quemado) puede haber permitido una recolonizacin ms rpida de los depredadores de nidos en el sitio quemado pequeo, comparado con el sitio quemado mayor que present pocos parches de bosque no quemado (4% no quemado). En combinacin con los efectos de tiempo y espacio, la probabilidad predicha de ocupacin de cavidades fue afectada positivamente por la altura de los rboles y de los nidos para los excavadores fuertes y dbiles, respectivamente. 
1370533| Forty-five years ago Humphrey and Parkes (1959) introduced their system of nomenclature for molts and plumages (the H-P system). They claimed that their biologically neutral terminology, independent of the bird's life cycle events, could accurately reflect homologies of molts and plumages across a wide range of avian taxa. Soon, however, several investigators reported trouble adapting the terminology to unusual sequences of molts and plumages, and others expressed doubts that it could accurately reflect true phylogenetic homologies. Howell et al. (2003) reviewed these problems and proposed a modification of the original H-P system that identifies the juvenal plumage as the first basic plumage, and any postjuvenal plumages that are not repeated in later plumage cycles as formative plumages. By doing this, they solved the problem of adapting the original H-P system to plumages of the first year of life in many species. However, they have not overcome the arguments of Stresemann (1963) and Amadon (1966) that patterns of molting and plumage are so variable, and so subject to natural selection, that there is doubt that the H-P terminology can reveal phylogenetic homologies even among closely related species. Molting and plumage sequences within a clade comprising four species of the genus Carduelis confirm that within this limited grouping, molting and plumages are highly variable, and apparent homologies are not revealed in the H-P terminology as modified by Howell et al. /// Hace cuarenta y cinco aos, Humphrey y Parkes (1959) introdujeron su sistema de nomenclatura para la muda y el plumaje (el sistema H-P). Ellos sugirieron que su terminologa biolgicamente neutra, independiente de los eventos del ciclo de vida de las aves, podra reflejar con exactitud las homologas de la muda y el plumaje a travs de un amplio espectro de taxa. Sin embargo, poco despus varios investigadores notaron problemas al adaptar la terminologa a secuencias inusuales de muda y plumajes, y otros expresaron dudas en cuanto a si podra reflejar con exactitud las verdaderas homologas filogenticas. Howell et al. (2003) revisaron estos problemas y propusieron una modificacin del sistema H-P original que identifica el plumaje juvenil como el primer plumaje bsico, y cualquier plumaje post-juvenil que no se repita en ciclos posteriores del plumaje como plumaje formativo. Haciendo esto, solucionaron el problema de adaptar el sistema H-P original a plumajes del primer ao de vida de muchas especies. Sin embargo, no lograron resolver las crticas de Stresemann (1963) y Amadon (1966) de que los patrones de muda y plumaje son tan variables y tan propensos a ser afectados por seleccin natural, que es dudoso que la terminologa H-P pueda revelar homologas filogenticas, an entre especies estrechamente relacionadas. Las secuencias de muda y plumaje al interior de un clado formado por cuatro especies del gnero Carduelis confirman que dentro de este limitado grupo, la muda y el plumaje son ltamente variables y que algunas homologas aparentes no son reveladas por la terminologa H-P con las modificaciones de Howell et al. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110197|Habitat models that associate organisms with features of their environment can help identify areas for planning conservation strategies. These models, however, should be tested with new data before their conclusions are widely accepted. The Saltmarsh Sparrow (
90008462|Renesting is an important breeding strategy used by birds to compensate for nest failure. If birds renest, clutch removal for captive rearing can be used to augment endangered populations; however, not all individuals renest following nest loss, and later nesting attempts may have lower survival rates and clutch sizes. We investigated variation in nest initiation date, clutch size, daily nest survival, renesting propensity, and renesting intervals of federally endangered Great Lakes Piping Plovers (
10.1525/cond.2010.090057|In a first attempt to formally test competitive interactions among army-ant-following birds, we explored the patterns of occurrence of birds following swarms of army ants in the Atlantic rain forest of southeastern Brazil. We contrasted the frequency of occurrence of birds at ant swarms at a lowland and a highland site. Additionally, we assessed the patterns of co-occurrence of bird species at ant swarms, using null models to test for the possibility of competitive exclusion. Despite the larger number of attending bird species at the highland site, we detected no differences between the sites in either the frequency of attendance or the number of bird species per swarm. Analyses of co-occurrence did not reveal evidence of negative association of bird species attending ant swarms at the lowland site but did at the more species-rich highland site. Pairwise analyses showed that this negative association invariably involved two of the species attending ant swarms most frequently,
10.2307/1367060|Four species of hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri, Calypte anna, Selasphorus sasin, and S. rufus) were observed to keep their feet and toes in a special patch of downy belly feathers at low ambient temperatures (T<sub>a</sub>), gradually expose them as temperatures rise, and hold them fully exposed at high T<sub>a</sub> when hovering and perching. Since the position of the feet depends upon T<sub>a</sub>, it probably influences the birds' heat transfer coefficient.
10.2307/1367123|An intensive census of the remnant California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus) population based on photographic identification of individuals revealed a minimum of 21 and a probable maximum of about 24 condors in late summer 1982. Corresponding figures for 1983 were 19 and 22 condors. Two condors are known to have died in the wild since the 1983 census. These data, when compared with earlier population estimates, indicate a continuing catastrophic decline of the species. In the absence of intensive conservation measures, extinction of the wild population can be expected within 10 to 20 years.
4122508| King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis) breeding in western Canada and Alaska molt wing feathers and spend the winter in remote areas of the Bering Sea, precluding direct observation. To characterize timing of migration and habitat used by King Eiders during the nonbreeding period, we collected location data for 60 individuals (27 females and 33 males) over three years from satellite telemetry and utilized oceanographic information obtained by remote sensing. Male King Eiders dispersed from breeding areas, arrived at wing molt sites, and dispersed from wing molt sites earlier than females in all years. Males arriving earlier at wing molt sites molted flight feathers at higher latitudes. Distributions of molt and winter locations did not differ by sex or among years. Of the variables considered for analysis, distance to shore, water depth, and salinity appeared to best describe King Eider habitat throughout the nonbreeding period. King Eiders were located closer to shore, in shallower water with lower salinity than random locations. During the winter, lower ice concentrations were also associated with King Eider locations. This study provides some of the first large-scale descriptions of King Eider migration and habitat outside the breeding season. /// Los individuos de la especie Somateria spectabilis que cran en el oeste de Canad y Alaska mudan las plumas de las alas y pasan el invierno en reas remotas del Mar de Beiring, lo que hace imposible realizar observaciones directas. Para caracterizar el momento en que tiene lugar la migracin y el uso de hbitat por parte de estas aves durante el perodo no reproductivo, obtuvimos datos sobre la ubicacin de 60 individuos (27 hembras y 33 machos) a lo largo de tres aos empleando telemetra satelital e informacin oceanogrfica obtenida mediante sensores remotos. En todos los aos, los machos se dispersaron desde las reas de cra, llegaron a los sitios de muda de las plumas y se dispersaron desde estos sitios ms temprano que las hembras. Los machos que llegaron ms temprano a los sitios de muda de las alas mudaron sus plumas de vuelo en lugares ubicados a mayores latitudes. Las distribuciones de los datos de ubicacin obtenidos en los sitios de muda e invernada no difierieron entre sexos ni entre aos. De las variables consideradas en los anlisis, la distancia a la costa, la profundidad del agua y la salinidad parecieron describir mejor el hbitat de S. spectabilis a lo largo del perodo no reproductive. Las aves se ubicaron ms cerca de la playa, y en aguas menos profundas y con menor salinidad que las de sitios seleccionados al azar. Durante el invierno, las menores concentraciones de hielo tambin se asociaron con la ubicacin de S. spectabilis. Este estudio provee algunas de las primeras descripciones a gran escala de la migracin y el hbitat de S. spectabilis por fuera del perodo reproductivo. 
1369816| Sharp reduction of the inner web of the outer primary feather, hereafter referred to as the attenuated primary, is present in 54 of about 300 species belonging to the family Columbidae. The flight performance hypothesis (Goodwin 1983) suggests that attenuated primaries improve flight performance in cluttered habitats, presumably by enhancing maneuverability. This hypothesis predicts that the evolution of attenuated primaries should be associated with the use of closed habitats. A comparative analysis, using the contingent states test (Silln-Tullberg 1993), was made to test this hypothesis. We found that 15 out of 17 independent instances of evolution of attenuated primaries occurred in clades using closed habitat, but because most species live in closed habitats, chance alone could explain this result. /// En 54 de las aproximadamente 300 especies pertenecientes a la familia Columbidae se observa una abrupta reduccin de la lmina interna de la pluma primaria distal, denominada primaria atenuada de aqu en adelante. La hiptesis de la performance de vuelo (Goodwin 1983) sugiere que las primarias atenuadas mejoran el desempeo de vuelo en ambientes cerrados, probablemente por conferir una mayor maniobrabilidad. Esta hiptesis predice que la evolucin de primarias atenuadas debera estar asociada al uso de ambientes cerrados. Para evaluar esta hiptesis, se realiz un anlisis comparativo usando el mtodo de estados contingentes (Silln-Tullberg 1993). Se encontr que 15 de 17 instancias independientes de evolucin de primarias atenuadas ocurrieron en clados de ambientes cerrados, pero dado que la mayora de las especies del grupo habitan estos ambientes, este resultado puede ser explicado simplemente por azar. 
10.2307/1370315|White-winged Doves (Zenaida asiatica) in Texas are separated into four subspecies primarily based on morphological variation. However, problems differentiating the subspecies by morphological measurements alone and a recent range expansion have led to questions about their systematic status and population structure. We evaluated both morphological characters and a 289 base-pair segment of the mitochondrial control region from 183 White-winged Doves taken from 31 locations in Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona. Twenty-seven variable base changes were observed, which resulted in 44 haplotypes. An analysis of haplotypes yielded little phylogenetic signal; however, analyses of haplotype frequencies indicated geographic heterogeneity between doves collected in the four historic subspecies ranges. Doves from the range expansion areas were intermediate in size and genetically homogenous. Morphological analyses suggested congruency between control region variation and body size. Our data support the recognition of two subspecies of White-winged Doves with a zone of intergradation in the range expansion areas. The dispersal of White-winged Doves into the expansion areas appears to be a congruent process by both subspecies.
10.2307/1368380| Six major components of the water budget of nestling Swainson's Hawks (Buteo swainsoni) were quantified to assess the influence of heat stress and dietary composition on water balance. Rates of food consumption, energy utilization, excrement and pellet production, and growth were measured in food trials. Rates of evaporative water loss and CO<sub>2</sub> production were measured gravimetrically at 25, 35, 42, and 30C (plus direct sunlight) with an open flow system. The inverse relationship between body fat content (or energy density) and body water content in small mammalian prey has: (1) a dramatic effect on the magnitude of preformed water consumption, (2) a lesser effect on excretory water loss, and (3) a negligible effect on metabolic water production. The consequence of these relationships is that nutrient composition of the prey has a significant influence on the status of nestling water balance. Low fat diets should supply nestlings with a surplus of water, whereas high fat diets would not provide enough water to meet the minimum water needs of the rapidly growing nestlings. Water incorporated into new body tissue and water loss in excrement and pellets increased to a peak when nestlings were about 3 weeks old, an age when their rates of growth and food consumption were near maximal levels. Rates of preformed water consumption also reached peak levels during this period of maximal food consumption. Metabolic water was 10-19% of the total water input and was generated by nestling metabolic rates considerably higher than predicted by allometry for adult falconiform birds. Basal rates of evaporative water loss of 700-g nestlings at 25C were 75% higher than rates predicted by allometry for equally large adult birds. The largest nestlings (782-935 g) had evaporation rates at 25C nearly three times the rates predicted by allometry. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110020|We examined foraging-habitat selection of Black-backed Woodpeckers (
10.1525/cond.2013.120062|Because of the patchiness of their habitat, its perceived low conservation value, and tendency to burn, bamboo-specialist birds are vulnerable to habitat loss. We documented the habitat use and foraging strategies of
1370586| Bananaquits (Coereba flaveola) on the island of Grenada in the West Indies have a plumage color polymorphism in which individuals are either yellow and black or all black. In the southwest of the island there is a cline in plumage morphs in which the frequency of black individuals increases with distance from the island's southwestern tip. We describe the present position (September 2002) and form of this cline in comparison to when it was last mapped, 21 years ago. There has been no net movement of the cline during this period. We suggest that previous movement in the cline could have been related to longterm variation in rainfall. /// Los individuos de Coereba flaveola de la isla de Grenada en las Antillas presentan un polimorfismo en el color del plumaje, en el cual existen individuos de color amarillo y negro e individuos totalmente negros. Al sudeste de la isla existe una clina de tipos de plumaje en la cual la frecuencia de individuos negros se incrementa con la distancia desde el extremo sudoccidental de la isla. Describimos la forma y posicin actual de esta clina en comparacin a cuando fue mapeada hace veinte aos, y mostramos que no ha ocurrido un desplazamiento neto durante este perodo. Sugerimos que los movimientos anteriores de esta clina podran estar relacionados con variaciones a largo plazo de la precipitacin. 
1369839| Bell's Vireos (Vireo bellii) deserted 51% of nests parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in central Missouri from 1996-1998. Deserting vireo pairs fledged more host young within a season than pairs that accepted cowbird eggs when only successful nests were considered; parasitized acceptor nests never fledged any vireo young. Vireo pairs that deserted did not always desert parasitized nests. We observed five encounters between female cowbirds and Bell's Vireos at four nests. In one observation the female vireo used nest-protection behavior, which resulted in the cowbird egg appearing beneath the nest; this nest was not deserted. We found a total of eight nests where cowbird eggs remained on the ground below nests, five of which were abandoned. Nest desertion appears to benefit Bell's Vireos by allowing for unparasitized renests, but the stimuli eliciting nest desertion by Bell's Vireos remain in need of further study. /// Individuos de Vireo bellii abandonaron el 51% de los nidos que fueron parasitados por Molothrus ater en el centro de Missouri entre 1996-1998. Las parejas desertoras de V. bellii criaron ms juveniles propios por estacin que parejas que aceptaron huevos de M. ater cuando solamente se consideraron nidos exitosos; los nidos parasitados aceptados nunca produjeron ningn juvenil de V. bellii. Las parejas desertoras de Vireo no siempre abandonaron nidos parasitados. Observamos cinco encuentros entre hembras de M. ater y de V. bellii en cuatro nidos. En una observacin, la hembra de Vireo realiz comportamientos de proteccin del nido que resultaron en la aparicin del huevo de M. ater debajo del nido; este nido no fue abandonado. Encontramos un total de ocho nidos con huevos de M. ater tirados en el suelo debajo de los nidos, cinco de los cuales fueron abandonados. La desercin de nidos parece beneficiar a V. bellii al permitirle re-establecer nidos no parasitados, pero el estmulo que impulsa la desercin de nidos en V. bellii necesita an ser estudiado. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100234|Many annual monitoring programs assume that availabilitythe probability that an animal will be visible, make an audible sound, or leave other evidence of its presenceis not changing systematically from year to year. Until recently, this assumption of unchanging availability seemed reasonable, but recent studies report changes in breeding phenology that are presumed to be linked to climate change. Because the rate of bird song is often correlated with stage of breeding, earlier breeding could shift timing of peak bird availability, changing the number of birds counted during annual surveys on set dates. Such changes could be erroneously interpreted as population trends. To better understand how changes in phenology might affect the probability of detecting birds, we modeled availabilities of 31 species in southern Alabama through the breeding season, documenting strong seasonal variation in availability. Then, using our availability estimates, we investigated whether changes in detection probabilities could underlie observed changes in the abundances of some species. We calculated the expected change in the number of times a species would be recorded during surveys conducted within fixed dates by assuming a 1-week shift in breeding activity. We found that summer residents were more likely to show changes in availability but that such changes in availability did not account for trends in Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) data for Alabama. Our results suggest that while summer residents' availability may be declining during BBS dates, population declines observed in BBS data for Alabama cannot be dismissed as due to shifting phenology.
10.2307/1368687|Nest-site selection of Merlins (Falco columbarius) was studied for 3 years in southeastern Montana where Merlins utilized Black-billed Magpie (Pica pica) nests in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) trees. Twenty-seven habitat variables were sampled at utilized and adjacent nonutilized nest sites. Logistic regression identified five variables useful in distinguishing utilized nest sites from nonutilized sites: maximum height of trees at the nest site, total basal area of the nest site, diameter at breast height of the nest tree, and slope and elevation at the nest site. The resulting equation correctly classified 95% of the utilized nests and 90% of the nonutilized nest sites. Merlins tended to select sites that combined easy access with maximum concealment of the nest contents.
10.2307/3247725|Contents of 78 stomachs from four widespread and sympatric species of Amazonian woodcreepers (Dendrocolaptidae) were examined to assess the role of diet in resource partitioning. Orthopterans (25-35%) and beetles (10-32%) dominated the diets of all four species, despite large differences in foraging behavior. A higher proportion of spiders in the diet of Dendrocincla merula was associated with specialized ground-foraging at army ant swarms; however, specialization on dead leaves by Xiphorhynchus guttatus resulted in no significant dietary differences from the substrate generalist X. spixii. Overlap in diet was much greater than overlap in behavior for all species pairs, and the degree of diet specialization was unrelated to behavioral specialization. Taxonomic representation of prey in stomach contents differed significantly from field sampling of available prey in the three species tested, with orthopterans apparently selected by all species and beetles selected by D. fuliginosa. We suggest that behavioral differences may have evolved to reduce overt aggression (interference competition) but may not serve to reduce diffuse competition for food among syntopic species. Segregation in substrate use, however, may allow high diet overlap, suggesting a case of niche complementarity among these species.
10.2307/1368573|Major starling roosts (2,000 to 100,000 birds) cannot be fully explained on the basis of information transfer, predation, migration, or limited habitat. Radiotelemetry has revealed that each starling returns daily to feed on its own stable diurnal activity center (DAC), but stops briefly at supplemental feeding areas (SFAs) on its way to and from distant communal roosts. We test and find supported a new hypothesis (Caccamise and Morrison 1986) that DAC-based starlings select roosts that reduce commuting costs to SFAs far from their DACs. As predicted, DAC-based adults used SFAs that were nearer their roosts than their DACs, and used more distant roosts where SFAs were more widely spaced. In starlings, major communal roosts appear to be aggregations containing large numbers of "patch-sitting" birds roosting near especially rich sources of food.
10.2307/1369573|The acoustic adaptation hypothesis (AAH) predicts that vocalizations intended for unambiguous long range communication should possess amplitude modulation (AM) characteristics such that the temporal patterning of amplitude is minimally degraded (due to atmospheric turbulence and reverberation) during transmission through native habitat. Specifically, signals should possess rapid AM (trills) in open habitats and low rate AM (whistles) in closed habitats. To determine which of these amplitude patterns incurs less degradation from its two main components, reverberation and irregular amplitude fluctuations (IAFs), we constructed two synthetic 'source' signals, a rapid AM 'trill' and a low rate AM 'whistle', from pure tone frequency sweeps. We applied the degradation components independently, thus avoiding their complex interactions typical of field recordings. Signals were degraded by various echo treatments (modeling closed habitat reverberation) or by various amplitude decrease treatments (modeling open habitat IAFs). Results revealed that the difference in performance between signal types lies not so much in their average transmission quality, as in the variability of that quality. In closed habitats, whistled signals transmit with more consistent quality than trilled signals over biologically realistic echo delays. In open habitats, trilled signals transmit with far lower variability of quality than do whistled signals. The inherent redundancy of trills transmits information more effectively than whistles in open habitats. Our results show strong support for the AAH predictions regarding what type of signal structure is best suited for open or closed habitats. However, this support is based on variability in performance of signal types in different habitats rather than average transmission quality.
10.2307/1367816|Male and female Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) adjust the amount of time spent brooding and provisioning nestlings at primary nests in light of prevailing weather conditions and food availability. Males brood nestlings less and feed them more (mg/h) when food is scarce, regardless of weather conditions. Primary (i.e., first-mated) females brood nestlings more and maintain feeding rates when food is scarce and weather is stormy. When food is scarce and weather is good, primary females brood nestlings less and feed them more. Increased provisioning results from both faster delivery rates and larger numbers of food items delivered per trip for both sexes. In this 4-year study conducted in Oregon, male Bobolinks delivered about 60% of the food fed to older primary nestlings when weather was poor and food was scarce, about 50% when weather was good and food was scarce, and about 40% when weather was good and food was abundant. In the year when weather was good and food was scarce, males delivered about 70% of the food during the brooding period and about 50% thereafter. The results suggest that trade-offs exist among brooding nestlings, feeding nestlings, and self-maintenance. They imply that the relative value of investing in each of these activities differs between parents and changes according to weather conditions and food availability. Secondary (i.e., second-mated) females did not compensate for reduced male parental assistance by stepping up food delivery rates, except in one year when food was abundant and weather was good. Their cost of losing male parental help was substantial, especially in years when food was scarce and/or weather was poor.
10.1525/cond.2012.110171|Changes in the structure of woodlands and forests, caused by shifts in management, stand maturity, and composition, have been implicated in the population decline of some bird species in Europe and North America. One such species is the Marsh Tit (
10.2307/1370450|Sexual dimorphism in plumage coloration among passerines is believed to be largely the result of sexual selection, with males usually being more colorful than females. Yet in many species females also are brightly colored. Such "ornaments" are traditionally viewed as nonfunctional byproducts of selection for the same trait in the male, i.e., as genetic correlation. Alternatively, female coloration may have a signaling function in contexts such as male mate choice or intrasexual competition. The Bluethroat (Luscinia svecica svecica) is a species exhibiting strong sexual dichromatism and large variation in plumage coloration of females. In a recent aviary experiment, males associated more with colorful females which were both larger and heavier than dull females. These results could be interpreted as evidence for male preference for high quality females. Here we present correlational data from a two-year field study on Bluethroats in which we tested whether female plumage coloration is an indicator of female reproductive quality. Female coloration was positively, although weakly, related to skeletal size, but was not related to body mass during the nestling period. Clutch size, hatching dates, feeding rates, and nestling growth gave no indication that more colorful females were of superior phenotypic quality. The results suggest that plumage coloration does not reflect parental abilities in female Bluethroats. We discuss the implications of our results for the understanding of processes of sexual selection in passerine birds.
40072461|To assess the value of molted feathers as a noninvasive source of DNA for genetic studies of Northern Goshawks (
10.2307/1366820|Karyotypes of 52 Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) from four widely separated populations were analyzed for possible regional differences in diploid numbers (2n) and in the sizes and shapes of the seven largest chromosomes. G-banded karyotypes for a subset of these individuals were compared to assess the banding homology between two of the populations. Results thus far indicate that Red-winged Blackbirds are karyotypically invariant across much of their geographic range and have an estimated 2n of 76.
10.2307/1369934|I studied nest defense in 53 female Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) on Mandarte Island, British Columbia, between 1994 and 1995. A total of 75 trials was conducted by presenting a Northwestern Crow (Corvus caurinus) and a Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis) mount near nests during incubation. Female Song Sparrows spent more time perched close to the crow than the junco mount, and alarm called more often in the presence of the crow. Female responses were unrelated to their age and were not correlated with the subsequent success of their nests. Individual female responses to the junco, but not the crow mount, in 1994 were significantly positively correlated with their responses in 1995. Individual responses to a predator model may not be consistent from year to year because of experiences with live predators or the inherent variability of nest defense behavior.
10.2307/1368771|Since 1967, 2,444 Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) have been banded in southeastern Alberta and 80 recoveries are examined. The majority of Alberta Ferruginous Hawks winter in Texas. Upon departing from their grassland breeding range in September or October, they exhibit a strong tendency to remain in habitat broadly categorized as grassland. As a result, the hawks mix little with the westerly populations frequenting desert shrub habitat. While in Texas, Ferruginous Hawks are common near black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies regardless of the land use in the surrounding area. Survivorship schedules based on band returns suggest that 66% of the hawks die during their first year.
10.1525/cond.2013.120197|To understand how animals cope with environmental variability it is necessary to identify the degree of flexibility in a species' diet and foraging mode and the consequences of this flexibility for reproduction. We examined rates of feeding and energy delivery to chicks by a long-lived pelagic seabird, the Short-tailed Shearwater (
40072413|Ecological factors on the breeding grounds are expected to have a relatively large effect on the timing of molt in migratory birds breeding at middle latitudes (e.g., southern North America), because constraints on the time available to molt are probably weak. We investigated the timing of prebasic molt in adults of two migratory passerines, the endangered Black-capped Vireo (
10.2307/1369384|We examined the pelagic distributions of 12 species of northern Bering Sea birds with respect to the water masses in which they were observed during the summers of 1984, 1985 and 1986. Despite the prediction of earlier work that differences in community structure are unlikely to occur at small spatial scales, we found significant habitat preferences for all but one of the species studied. We suggest that the strength of the gradient between habitat types is the cause of this discrepancy, and that boundary conditions should also be considered when discussing the influence of spatial scales on community processes.
10.2307/1369960|We present evidence for cooperative breeding in Gray Jays (Perisoreus canadensis), a species characterized by delayed dispersal but long thought not to exhibit the life-history tactic of helping. Our findings to date suggest that the alloparental care of younger siblings by philopatric yearlings is confined to the post-fledging period of nutritional dependence. We encourage other workers to investigate whether helping may be confined to this period in other semi-social species as well. Ongoing work is aimed at evaluating the fitness consequences of helping in our study population.
10.1525/cond.2010.090060|San Francisco Bay is a wintering area for shorebirds, including American Avocets (
10.2307/1370011| Dune Larks Miafra erythrocephalus are the only permanent residents living in the Namib Sand Sea, one of the driest regions on earth. For Dune Larks with an average body mass of 27.3  1.8 g (n = 12), basal metabolic rate (BMR) equaled 36.0 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>, a value near allometric predictions. Hence, I found no evidence that these birds have a reduced BMR. I suggest that because they live in a relatively cool environment in winter, which mandates significant metabolic machinery for thermogenesis, larks have an elevated BMR at this time. Below 30C, total evaporative water loss (TEWL) varied little with ambient temperature T<sub>a</sub>), and averaged 66.0 mg H<sub>2</sub>O hr<sup>-1</sup>, or 1.58 g day<sup>-1</sup>. The latter value was 21-44% lower than allometric predictions, supporting the idea that larks have a reduced TEWL, attributable, perhaps, to reduced cutaneous water loss. Metabolic water production may play a significant role in the water economy of larks in view of the fact that evaporative water losses are replaced at T<sub>a</sub>s below 17.0C. 
10.2307/1368399|We dissected the hindlimb musculature of 40 House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) in order to assess the degree of anatomical variation that one might expect within a bird population. We found four variations, which, if encountered in a single specimen, could lead to erroneous systematic conclusions. M. iliofomoralis, normally absent in passerines, was present in one specimen. In 10 of the 40 specimens M. puboischiofemoralis had an "extra" head. M. flexor hallucis longus typically arises by three heads in passerines. In 21 of our specimens only two heads were present. Finally, one specimen had an unusual relationship between the tendons of Mm, fibularis longus and flexor perforatus digiti III. All variations were present bilaterally. We hope that this study will promote an awareness that anatomical generalizations based on small sample sizes may be incorrect.
10.1525/cond.2013.120111|The preferences of frugivorous birds for certain colors have been proposed to explain the evolution of fruit color, but evidence supporting this hypothesis is weak. Furthermore, evidence from tropical Asia is lacking, although in tropical Asia birds are more important seed dispersers than are their counterparts in other regions. We experimented with artificial fruit of five colors to evaluate the color preferences of six bird species (33 individuals, 2 families) from tropical Asia. We also checked whether contrast affects color detection by displaying red and green artificial fruits against green and red backgrounds. We found that five species had a consistent and strong preference for red, and one species preferred blue, with a low degree of variation among individuals. Species that preferred a certain color also consumed a small portion of fruit of different colors. Contrast increased the rate of consumption of green and red fruit in comparison with that against a monochrome background. Because all the species in this experiment showed a strong preference for a fruit color, we conclude that the interaction between frugivorous birds and fruit color may be tighter in tropical Asia than in other regions. Although contrast mediated the rate of consumption of red and green fruit to some degree, red was still the most preferred and green the least consumed.
10.2307/1367504|Birds in a 6.25-ha quadrat in a 73-year-old jack pine-black spruce forest (Pinus banksiana-Picea mariana) in Cook Co., Minnesota were intensively studied in June 1976. A wildfire burned through the area in August. The following spring we resurveyed the same quadrat to determine the first-year changes in bird populations. Species and guilds were compared by density, territorial space, existence energy, and importance values. Twelve species had territories in the study grid before the fire; six were not there the following spring, but eight additional species had established territories. Tree-foliage searchers had the greatest importance value before the fire and ground-brush foragers the greatest value afterwards. Density, total biomass, and combined existence energy of birds decreased after the fire by 50, 23, and 41%, respectively, but species using the area after the fire were 63% heavier on the average. Average energy consumption per unit of body weight was calculated to be 23% less after the fire. Fire apparently reduced the total food available for birds, but increased the kinds of food, especially at or near the ground.
1370378| Along the Rio Manu in southeastern Peru, Round-tailed Manakins (Pipra chloromeros) breed mainly from August to November. Male P. chloromeros have a dispersed lek breeding system, with each lek composed of two to five territorial males. Sites used by males for display had significantly higher densities of shrubs, vines, and small trees than did non-display sites. Interlek distances ranged from 220 to 1000 m. Within leks, most males occupied territories within auditory range, but not visual range. Distance to the closest neighbor's display perch varied from 8 to 87 m. Males vigorously defended territories that ranged from 20 to 50 m in diameter. Males progress in social status within the lek (from immature to non-territorial adult to territorial adult). Territorial adult males were always dominant to males of the other two categories. Territorial males engaged in daily ritualized encounters at the borders of their territories. Encounters involved slow, coordinated displays reminiscent of those performed toward females. Such interactions may help maintain dominance relationships within the lek, but an analysis of interaction outcomes failed to show clear dominance relationships among males. Female visitation was most frequent in early afternoon, during males' maximum territory attendance and display activity. Lekking P. chloromeros employ ten display elements, six vocalizations, and one mechanical noise. One display element has not been observed in any other species of Pipra. The displays and sounds in the P. erythrocephala clade are compared from the perspective of understanding the evolution of display behavior in this group. /// El comportamiento de lek del Saltarn de Cola Redonda (Pipra chloromeros) fue estudiado en el Ro Manu, sudeste del Per. Esta especie tiene un sistema de leks disperso, con leks compuestos de 2 a 5 machos territoriales. Las reas de despliegue tuvieron densidades significativamente altas de arbustos, lianas y rboles pequeos, en comparacin con reas sin leks. La distancia entre leks vari de 220 a 1000 m. Dentro de los leks, los machos defendieron territorios de 20 a 50 m de dimetro. La distancia entre territorios vari de 8 a 87 m. Los machos experimentan una progresin en status social dentro del lek (machos inmaduros, machos adultos no-territoriales y machos adultos territoriales). Los machos territoriales mantuvieron encuentros diarios altamente ritualizados en los lmites de sus territorios. Estos encuentros incluyeron elementos del despliegue de cortejo, aunque de ms baja intensidad. Estos encuentros serviran para mantener las jerarquas sociales dentro del lek. Sin embargo, un anlisis de los resultados de estas interacciones no mostr un patrn claro de dominancia. Las visitas de las hembras coincidieron con las horas de mxima atencin del territorio y el pico de actividad de despliegue. El repertorio de despliegue de esta especie incluy diez elementos de despliegue, seis vocalizaciones y un sonido mecnico. Uno de estos elementos no ha sido previamente descrito para ninguna otra especie de Pipra. Los despliegues, vocalizaciones y sonidos mecnicos presentes en el clado de P. erythrocephala son comparados con la perspectiva de entender la evolucin del comportamiento de despliegue en este grupo. 
10.2307/1368944|We quantified supplemental sources of calcium in the diet of nestling Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) near acid sensitive lakes in northwestern Ontario. Among the calcium-rich items brought to nest boxes by adult swallows and ingested by nestlings, fish bones (particularly flat pieces) were most numerous, followed by crayfish exoskeleton, clam shell, and bird eggshell in that order. Only 5% of the items eaten were longer than 10 mm, whereas over 29% of the items found in nest boxes were in this size class. We found significantly fewer calcium-rich items in the stomachs of nestlings from acidic lakes than in those from reference lakes, suggesting that items suitable for ingestion may be scarcer there. However, Tree Swallows flew at least 50 to 650 m from their nest-site lake to obtain calcium-rich items. Because lake acidification has reduced numbers of animals providing calcium for Tree Swallows in regions in which many lakes are atmospherically acidified, the availability of calcium sources for nestlings may be seriously affected.
10.2307/3247723|We used direct band-recovery records of Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) banded 1 April-15 September (1960-1987) in the southern and southeastern reference areas of Bowers and Martin (1975, Fig. 1) to test whether winter distribution and migration distance were age- and sex-specific. Effects of variation in early-autumn temperature and precipitation conditions on winter distribution patterns also were studied. Latitude and longitude of winter band recoveries did not differ by age and sex in the southern reference area; but adult Wood Ducks tended to migrate shorter distances than young. In the southeastern reference area, recovery distributions of males and females also did not differ; but adults were distributed north and east of young birds, and migrated shorter distances. We predicted that Wood Ducks would move farther south in winter when early-autumn (October-November) temperature and spring-summer (April-September) precipitation were below normal. Adults were recovered farther south when precipitation was below average, but deviations from average temperatures were not associated with winter distribution. Young Wood Ducks occurred farther south when rainfall in spring-summer was less than normal and when average November temperature was colder than normal. We conclude that winter distributions of male and female Wood Ducks did not differ, but that adults migrated shorter distances than young. Variation in winter distribution was associated with early-autumn habitat suitability.
4151072| This study uses mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) to examine the phylogeography of the White-headed Woodpecker (Picoides albolarvatus), one of the least-studied woodpeckers in North America. A mismatch distribution and calculation of Tajima's D indicate that the overall phylogeographic history of the species is characterized by a recent range expansion that probably occurred after the start of the Pleistocene. In addition, a nested clade phylogeographic analysis indicates that additional processes such as allopatric fragmentation and restricted gene flow have influenced the evolutionary history of this species. Traditionally, the White-headed Woodpecker has been split into two subspecies whose distributions meet in the northern part of the Transverse Ranges in California. The two subspecies differ morphologically, with the southern subspecies having a larger bill in proportion to its body size than the northern subspecies. Geographical variation in mtDNA is concordant with a division at the Transverse Ranges that corresponds to the morphological variation seen between the two subspecies. An analysis of molecular variance indicates that 27% of the genetic variation results from differences between the northern and southern subspecies. Furthermore, birds in the northern part of the range differ from those in the southern part of the range by at least one base substitution. These results agree with the hypothesis that the larger bill of the southern subspecies is the result of recent local adaptation to feeding on the large cones of Coulter pines (Pinus coulteri). /// Este estudio utiliza ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) para examinar la filogeografa de Picoides albolarvatus, una de las especies de carpinteros menos estudiada de Norte Amrica. La distribucin "mismatch" y el valor calculado de la D de Tajima, indican que en general la historia filogeogrfica de la especie est caracterizada por una expansin reciente en el rango de distribucin, que probablemente ocurri despus del inicio del Pleistoceno. Adicionalmente, un anlisis filogeogrfico de clados anidados indica que otros procesos tales como una fragmentacin aloptrica y flujo de genes restringido, han influenciado la historia evolutiva de esta especie. Tradicionalmente, P. albolarvatus ha sido dividido en dos subespecies cuyas distribuciones convergen en la parte norte de las Montaas Transversales en California. Las dos subespecies se diferencian morfolgicamente. La subespecie ubicada hacia el sur tiene un pico ms largo en proporcin al tamao del cuerpo, comparado con la subespecie ubicada ms al norte. La variacin geogrfica en el ADNmt es concordante con la divisin en las Montaas Transversales, que a su vez corresponde a la variacin morfolgica observada entre las dos subespecies. Un anlisis de varianza molecular indica que el 27% de la variacin gentica es el resultado de las diferencias entre la subespecie del norte y la del sur. Incluso las aves en la parte norte del rango de distribucin se diferencian de aquellas en la parte sur del rango en al menos una sustitucin de bases. Estos resultados concuerdan con la hiptesis de que el pico ms largo de la subespecie del sur es el resultado de una adaptacin local reciente a la alimentacin basada en los conos grandes de Pinus coulteri. 
10.1525/cond.2010.100143|The Rusty Blackbird (
10.2307/1368402| We examined the effects of time of day and season on counts of wintering birds in a central Pennsylvania forest. Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus), Tufted Titmice (Parus bicolor), and White-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta carolinensis) were detected more often in the morning (07:00-10:59) than at other times, whereas White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) were noted more often at midday (11:00-13:59). Numbers of contacts of all species combined were relatively similar between morning and midday but were much lower in the afternoon ( 14:00). Black-capped Chickadees, Tufted Titmice, White-breasted Nuthatches, Golden-crowned Kinglets (Regulus satrapa), and White-throated Sparrows were observed more often in early winter (before 19 January) than later in the season. We conclude that winter bird counts can be conducted in both morning and midday hours with little or no qualitative loss of data. In addition, counts should be made in early winter to minimize the effects of food shortages later in winter that may influence avian mortality and movements to feeders. 
10.2307/1369892|The mean number of primaries molted by Gray-headed Albatrosses (Diomedea chrysostoma) varied with year and previous breeding experience independently, but was not related to individual reproductive success over a longer period. Within each category of breeding experience, birds renewed fewer primaries during the "poor" year of 1994, when subsequent reproductive success was only 27%, than in 1993 when subsequent reproductive success was 57%. Inspection of individual feathers indicated that the outer primaries were least likely to be renewed during the period of stress. Within each year, birds that failed in their breeding attempt during the previous year renewed fewer feathers than those which reared a chick two years previously, a difference which was probably partly related to the time available for molting. In 1994 only, the date of failure in the previous year was inversely related to the number of primaries molted by males. The arrival mass of males was positively correlated with the number of primaries molted in two out of four seasons. Males and females molted similar numbers of primaries.
1370381| Movement of forest songbirds among isolated forest patches following breeding represents an important but poorly understood component of landscape ecology and metapopulation theory. Using radio-telemetry, we followed 44 male Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) during the post-fledging period to determine if movement patterns differed in landscapes dominated by agriculture versus those dominated by forest. No differences in home-range size, mean distance moved per day, or maximum distance moved were observed for males captured in a forested landscape vs. those captured in forest fragments in an agriculturally dominated landscape. Male Ovenbirds observed with young moved less than males without young and rarely crossed open gaps. Individuals that failed to breed moved more extensively than successful breeders, possibly in an effort to find new territories for use in future breeding seasons. /// Los movimientos de las aves canoras entre parches aislados de bosque tras la reproduccin representan un importante pero poco entendido componente de la ecologa del paisaje y la teora de metapoblaciones. Usando radiotelemetra, seguimos 44 Seiurus aurocapillus durante el perodo posterior a la salida de los pichones del nido para determinar si existan diferencias en los patrones de movimiento de estas aves entre paisajes dominados por agricultura y paisajes dominados por bosques. No encontramos diferencias entre machos adultos capturados en un paisaje boscoso y en fragmentos de bosque inmersos en un paisaje dominado por sistemas agrcolas en trminos del tamao del rea de hogar, la distancia promedio recorrida diariamente ni la mxima distancia recorrida. Los machos observados en compaa de pichones se movieron menos que aquellos sin pichones y raramente cruzaron claros abiertos. Los individuos que no lograron reproducirse se movieron ms que aquellos que tuvieron xito en la reproduccin, posiblemente buscando nuevos territorios para utilizar en pocas reproductivas futuras. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100220|Evolutionary theory predicts that exposure to more diverse pathogens will result in the evolution of a more robust immune response. We predicted that during the breeding season the innate immune function of female Tree Swallows (
10.2307/1366885|In 1980, 1981, and 1982, we studied nest-site selection by Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli) in a sagebrush community in Idaho to provide a thorough description of nest-site characteristics and preferences. Sage Sparrows nested in areas where sagebrush coverage was sparse but shrubs were clumped. All nests were situated in big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) plants; large, living shrubs were strongly preferred. Nest placement relative to the ground and shrub perimeter seemed quite specific. Sage Sparrows avoided positioning nests on the southwest side of shrubs.
10.1525/cond.2011.100068|Tropical vertebrates are considered to have greater flexibility in the timing of life-history stages than are temperate-zone vertebrates. Yet the annual cycles of most resident tropical species are poorly understood, making latitudinal comparisons of phenology difficult. We investigated the reproductive seasonality and synchrony of a mid-elevation (2100 m), equatorial population of the Rufous-collared Sparrow (
10.2307/1368798|We studied the territorial behavior of four insectivorous passerines residing in a tropical mangrove of northeastern Venezuela. Data were obtained through mist-netting and direct observation of color-banded individuals, regularly scheduled over two complete annual cycles. Seasonal variation in food resources (arthropods) and the birds' diet also were evaluated. A chronological cluster analysis was used to determine the settlement periods of territories, the former being illustrated by the probabilistic Jennrich-Turner method. Three of the four species hold year-round territories. These long-term territories were settled only once a year, immediately after the breeding season when food was abundant. The territorial settlement was synchronous among all individuals of a species, favoring strong modifications of the territorial mosaic. Considering the absence of territorial settlement prior to breeding and the high stability of territorial mosaics even during periods of low food abundance, territoriality during the non-breeding season primarily appears to ensure a breeding site for the next reproductive period. These results contrast with those from temperate regions where territoriality over the non-breeding season primarily enhances the survival of individuals during periods of food shortage.
10.2307/1367980|The molting pattern of Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus gabrielsoni) from Amchitka Island differs from that of other described races in the feathers molted, temporal and sexual sequence of molt, and extent of molt. Partially dark feathers may completely cover the head of females as a normal part of the winter plumage. Many new brown feathers or retained old ones are also found on the upper parts primarily of females but of both sexes in winter. To date, only the mid-summer and male autumn plumage, on which the description of this race was based, has been documented.
10.2307/1369319| I tested three hypotheses that could explain variation in the timing of breeding in populations of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) at four sites in Costa Rica. The sites were located at 200-1,500 m elevation on both sides and on top of the central mountain range, and had climates differing in temperature, the severity of the dry season, and total rainfall. For the first hypothesis, that breeding is timed to coincide with peaks in food availability, I monitored the monthly abundance of arthropod prey and wren clutch initiations at the four sites. Cross-correlation analysis showed that at three sites, wrens initiated clutches several months prior to when prey levels were high. Indeed, breeding began when prey levels were at their annual low. At the fourth site, prey levels varied little throughout the year and House Wrens nested nearly year round. These results indicate that sufficient food to produce eggs or feed nestlings may have been available throughout the year. Breeding appeared to be timed so that juvenile dispersal and molt occurred when food was most plentiful. The second hypothesis, that breeding is timed to avoid seasons when nest predation is high, was not supported because the rate of nest predation did not vary temporally. The third hypothesis, that breeding is timed to avoid climatic events that can increase the physiological costs of reproduction, was not supported at the three lower elevation sites. Clutch initiation at the highest site, however, did not commence until the early dry season wind and mist subsided. The termination of breeding was not correlated with climatic changes at any of the sites. Thus reproduction in tropical House Wrens seems generally to be timed to facilitate post-breeding activities, not activities associated with nesting itself. /// Prob tres hipotesis que podran explicar la variacin en tiempo de reproduccin en poblaciones del soterrey (Troglodytes aedon) en cuatro sitios dentro de Costa Rica. Los sitios estn localizados a elevaciones entre 200 y 1,500 m.s.n.m. a ambos lados y en la cima de la cordillera central. En los cuatro sitios el clima difiere en temperatura, severidad de la estacin seca, y precipitacin total. La primera hiptesis es que la poca de reproduccin est regulada por los picos en abundancia de alimentos, y para comprobarla evalu la abundancia mensual de artrpodos usados como presa y registr el inicio de la nidada de soterreyes en los cuatro sitios. Analisis de correlacin cruzada mostraron que en tres de los cuatro sitios, los soterreyes iniciaron las nidadas varios meses antes del pico de abundancia de presas. De hecho, la reproduccin se inici cuando la abundancia de presa se encontraban en el minimo anual. En el cuarto sitio, la abundancia de presas vari muy poco a lo largo del ao y los soterreyes anidaron durante casi todo el ao. Estos resultados indican que debi haber suficiente alimento para producir huevos y alimentar cras durante todo el ao. La reproduccin pareci estar regulada de manera que la dispersin de juveniles y la muda ocurrieran cuando la abundancia de alimento se encontraba en su mximo. La segunda hiptesis, que el tiempo de reproduccin esta determinado de manera de evitar pocas cuando la depredacin de nidos es alta, no fu apoyada debido a que la tasa de depredacin de nidos no vari temporalmente. La tercera hiptesis, que el tiempo de reproduccin est determinado para evitar eventos climatolgicos que puedan incrementar los costos fisiolgicos de reproduccin no fu apoyada por los datos obtenidos en los tres sitios de menor elevacin. Sin embargo, en el sitio ms elevado, la iniciacin de los nidos no se inici sino hasta que disminuyeron el viento y la gara caractersticos de la primera fase de la estacin seca. La terminacin de la reproduccin no estuvo correlacionada con cambios climticos en ninguno de los sitios. Por lo tanto, el tiempo de la reproduccin en los soterreyes parece estar determinada para facilitar las actividades post-reproductivas, ms que con respecto a las actividades asociadas con la nidada misma. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120167|Wind turbines provide a source of renewable energy to meet increasing human demand and offset the costs of fossil fuel usage and nuclear power generation. Birds are killed and displaced at wind facilities, so increased understanding of the drivers of mortality and displacement will assist planners considering the future placement and use of wind facilities. Our objectives were to assess the effect on birds of a wind facility in southeastern Wisconsin by (1) recording the species composition of recovered bird carcasses, (2) estimating mortality rates, and (3) identifying variables correlated with fatalities. We found 20 bird carcasses during scheduled searches. On this basis, we estimated that over two springs and two autumns of study from 2008 to 2010, 607 birds (0.026 per turbine per day, 0.017 per megawatt per day) were killed over 277 days of searching at this facility containing 86 turbines. Nocturnally migrating passerines accounted for 50% of the birds found killed. We found a significant negative relationship between bird fatalities and northward movement of birds through the wind facility. Despite the close proximity of Horicon Marsh National Wildlife Refuge, a wetland of international importance, we found no relationship between distance to Horicon Marsh and bird fatalities. Our study provides a timely assessment of fatal bird collisions with turbines at a wind facility in agricultural lands, uniquely located near a large wetland at which migrating birds stage.
40072421|Brood parasitism usually imposes several costs on individual hosts, one of which is the increased probability of brood reduction. We analyzed the effect of cowbird (
10.2307/1368757|The distribution, habitat response, sexual dimorphism, foraging, breeding, and flocking behavior of Maui Parrotbills (Pseudonestor xanthophrys) were studied over a five year period. The species' present range is confined to montane rainforest on eastern Maui, but dry lowland habitats on Maui and Molokai were occupied before Polynesian contact. Birds occurred from 1,250 to 2,150 m elevation, becoming most abundant at 1,750 to 2,000 m. In Kipahulu Valley, birds moved to lower elevations in some seasons. Maui Parrotbills associated with areas where vegetation was less disturbed from feral pig activity. Activity areas had more developed understories and more open canopies than nonactivity areas. Birds tended to forage in the subcanopy and understory, with 66% of the prey captured 1 to 5 m above ground. Plant species use deviated from expectations based on availability. The most frequent means of prey capture was excavation for timber-boring insects in dead branches on live plants. Foraging accounted for 39% of the diurnal time budget; an average prey item appeared to account for 1% of the daily energy intake. Male birds had longer, more deeply hooked bills than females, and tended to excavate to greater depths. Sexes differed in tree species use and foraging maneuvers, but not in substrate use or foraging height. The principal limiting factors appeared to be habitat loss, avian disease, habitat degradation, predation, and competition from exotic species. Control of pig populations is a needed management action.
10.2307/1369242|We estimated the proportions of eggs and nestlings, removed from hosts' nests, that were eaten by female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) from (1) a compilation of published and unpublished observations (n = 36) of egg or nestling removal and egg-eating by female cowbirds and (2) the proportion of removed eggs that were found uneaten below parasitized nests (n = 69) of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). Female cowbirds were seen removing eggs only before midday or in late afternoon and early evening. Eggs were removed from both parasitized and unparasitized nests and at any nesting stage from laying to late incubation. Although eggs, contents and shell, were frequently eaten, removed nestlings were not observed to be eaten. However, as many as 40% of removed eggs were not eaten, despite the apparent energetic benefits of egg-eating. We offer six explanations to account for the failure of cowbirds to eat many eggs, and suggest experiments to elucidate this puzzling behavior of cowbirds. We conclude that the use of eggs as food may not be the primary cause of egg removal by Brown-headed Cowbirds.
10.2307/1369893|In contrast to the results of Thompson et al. (1992), refined colorimetry validates three subspecies of Least Tern in North America, Sterna antillarum antillarum (Lesson), S. a. browni Mearns, and S. a. athalassos Burleigh and Lowery. Four of nine color characters exhibited significant seasonal differences, presumably a result of plumage wear and bleaching. The sexes differed in lightness and hue of dorsum and hind neck. Males of S. a. athalassos differed significantly from those of both S. a. antillarum and S. a. browni in lightness of dorsum, and males of S. a. browni differed significantly from those of S. a. antillarum in lightness of hind neck. Females generally showed patterns concordant with males. Because S. a. browni and S. a. athalassos are listed as endangered, the validity of these taxa is important to conservationists and managers. Rigorous systematic methodology and scientific collections of high quality are indispensable to conservation biology.
1370676| Supplemental food enables some birds to lay eggs earlier, perhaps by allowing birds to increase their energy intake or allocate energy from other activities to reproduction. We examined the relationships between prelaying behavior, food handling and consumption rates, and the timing of breeding of female Florida Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) in suburban and wildland habitats. Scrub-jays in suburban habitats had access to ad libitum human-provided foods; wildland jays did not. During both years of this study, suburban scrub-jays bred earlier than their wildland counterparts. Wildland scrub-jays bred earlier in 1997 than in 1996, but the timing of breeding by suburban scrub-jays did not vary between years. Suburban scrub-jays spent less time foraging and more time perching than wildland jays. They handled more food per hour and per foraging hour, suggesting their foraging was more efficient. Despite this, food consumption rates did not differ between the two habitats. Neither time spent foraging or perching nor food consumption rates significantly influenced variation in time of breeding among individuals. Time of breeding was significantly influenced by site, year, and rate of food handling. Individuals that handled more food items per foraging hour, that is, those individuals that were most efficient, were the earliest breeders in both habitats. These results suggest that foraging efficiency increases with access to human-provided food and that resource predictability may be a perceptual cue for the appropriate timing of breeding. /// El alimento suplementario le permite a algunas aves poner huevos ms temprano, quizs aumentando su ingestin de energa o permitiendo cambiar la asignacin de energa de otras actividades a la reproduccin. En este estudio examinamos las relaciones entre el comportamiento pre-postura, la manipulacin de alimento y la tasa de consumo con la poca de reproduccin de hembras de la especie Aphelocoma coerulescens en ambientes suburbanos y silvestres. Las aves en ambientes suburbanos tenan acceso a alimento provisto ad libitum por humanos, mientras que las aves de las reas silvestres no. Durante los dos aos de estudio, las aves suburbanas se reprodujeron ms temprano que las de las reas silvestres. Las aves de reas silvestres se reprodujeron ms temprano en 1997 que en 1996, pero la poca reproductiva de las aves de reas suburbanas no vari entre aos. Las aves suburbanas pasaron menos tiempo forrajeando y ms tiempo perchadas que las de reas silvestres, y adems manipularon ms alimento por hora y por hora de forrajeo, lo que sugiere que forrajearon ms eficientemente. Sin embargo, las tasas de consumo de alimento no difirieron entre los dos ambientes. La variacin entre individuos en el momento de la reproduccin no fue influenciada significativamente por el tiempo invertido en forrajeo o descanso ni por la tasa de consumo de alimento, pero s por el sitio, el ao y la tasa de manipulacin de alimento. Los individuos que manipularon ms tems alimenticios por sesin de forrajeo (los ms eficientes), fueron los que se reprodujeron ms temprano en ambos ambientes. Estos resultados sugieren que la eficiencia de forrajeo aumenta con el acceso a alimentos provistos por humanos y que la predecibilidad de los recursos podra ser percibida como una seal indicadora del momento de reproduccin adecuado. 
40306121|Little is known of the chronology of wing molt and the intensity of body molt among flightless Red-breasted Mergansers (
1370103| We examined the effects of patch size, local forest cover, and regional forest cover on the numbers and species composition of forest birds detected during fixed-radius point counts in 287 forest patches in four replicate study areas in southern Ontario. Each study area consisted of two subareas differing in regional forest cover. The number of forest-interior species (as classified from the literature) detected per count, after controlling for forest patch size, tended to be higher in subareas with greater regional forest cover, but this effect was much stronger in some study areas than others. In contrast, numbers of edge species and interior-edge generalists were higher in subareas with lower regional forest cover. Within study areas, the number of forest-interior species increased and edge species decreased with both woodlot size and core area (amount of forest > 100 m from an edge), but total species diversity at a point was relatively unaffected. Analyses of individual species generally corroborated the patterns, except that some so-called interior-edge generalists were more likely to be detected in large woodlots, while others were more likely in small woodlots. There was a tendency for the loss of forest-interior species with decreasing woodlot size to be greatest in subareas with low regional forest cover. In the context of highly fragmented landscapes such as southern Ontario, where many forest-dependent species have become rare, forest conservation should focus on protecting or restoring larger forest tracts in areas with substantial remaining regional forest cover. /// Examinamos el efecto del tamao de parches y de la cobertura de bosque a escalas local y regional sobre el nmero y composicin de especies de aves de bosque. Las aves fueron detectadas mediante puntos de conteo de radio fijo en 287 parches de bosque, en cuatro reas de estudio replicadas en el sur de Ontario. Cada rea de estudio consisti en dos sub-reas, las que se diferenciaron en la cantidad de cobertura regional de bosque. Luego de controlar por el rea de los parches, el nmero de especies de interior de bosque (clasificadas segn la literatura) detectadas por conteo tendi a ser mayor en sub-reas con mayor cobertura regional de bosque. Sin embargo, este efecto fue mucho mayor en algunas reas de estudio que en otras. En contraste, los nmeros de especies de borde y especies generalistas de borde-interior fueron mayores en las sub-reas con menor cobertura regional de bosque. Dentro de cada rea de estudio, el nmero de especies de interior de bosque aument y el nmero de especies de borde disminuy con el aumento del tamao y del rea nucleo (cantidad de bosque a > 100 m del borde) de los fragmentos de bosque, pero la diversidad total de especies en un punto no se vi relativamente afectada. Los anlisis individuales por especie corroboraron los patrones observados, exceptuando que alguna especies Ilamadas generalistas de borde-interior tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de ser detectadas en fragmentos grandes, mientras que otras tuvieron mayor probabilidad en fragmentos pequeos. La tendencia ms marcada a perder especies de interior de bosque con la reduccin del rea de los fragmentos ocurri en las sub-reas con baja cobertura regional de bosque. En paisajes en un contexto altamente fragmentado tales como en el sur de Ontario, donde muchas especies dependientes de bosque se han tornado escasas, la conservacin de bosques debiera estar enfocada a la proteccin o restauracin de grandes extenciones de bosque en reas donde la cobertura regional de bosque es an substancial. 
10.2307/1369421|Activity patterns of Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) in old-growth forest were compared at two sites in the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia. Number of detections peaked in late July at both sites. More activity was recorded on cloudy mornings than on clear mornings and the duration of activity was greater on cloudy days than on clear days. Number of detections, number of calls and duration of the activity period per survey were highly variable and were correlated on a coarse scale (seasonally) but not always on a fine scale (weekly). Activity levels at the two stations were correlated over the entire season but not on a monthly or weekly basis. Detections were always more numerous in the morning than in the evening. Most detections were auditory only, but birds were seen in 20 and 26% of detections at the two sites. Approximately half of visual detections were of silent birds. Most birds sighted were either singles or in pairs and the majority of single birds were silent and tended to fly at lower altitudes than grouped birds. Knowledge of the behavior of Marbled Murrelets at inland locations is essential for the design of survey methodology and interpretation of survey results.
1370117| Great Knots (Calidris tenuirostris) make one of the longest migratory flights in the avian world, flying almost 5500 km from Australia to China during northward migration. We measured basal metabolic rate (BMR) and body composition in birds before and after this flight and found that BMR decreased 42%. The mass-specific BMR based on lean mass decreased 33%. We also starved a group of pre-migratory Great Knots in captivity to determine whether they showed the same reduction in BMR without having undergone the hard work of flight. The captive birds showed a similar range and reduction of BMR values as the wild birds. Exponents of relationships between BMR and body mass in different comparisons were high, indicating large changes in BMR as a function of body mass. Analysis of the body composition of ten wild and three captive birds found that the flight muscle mass and intestine mass positively correlated with BMR. /// Calidris tenuirostris realiza uno de los vuelos migratorios ms largos entre las aves, volando desde Australia hasta China durante la migracin al norte. Medimos la tasa metablica basal (TMB) y la composicin corporal en aves antes y despus del vuelo y encontramos que TMB se reduce en 42%. La TMB especfica por masa, o sea la TMB corregida por masa magra, se redujo en 33%. Tambin expusimos un grupo premigratorio de Calidris tenuirostris a un periodo de ayuno en cautiverio, para determinar si mostraban una tasa de reduccin similar en la TMB sin haber soportado la dura tarea de volar. Las aves en cautiverio mostraron un rango y una reduccin de los valores de la TMB similares a los de las aves en libertad. Los exponentes de la relacin entre TMB y masa corporal en diferentes comparaciones fueron altos, indicando grandes cambios de la TMB en funcin de la masa corporal. El anlisis de la composicin corporal de diez aves libres y tres en cautiverio mostr que la masa de los msculos del vuelo y la masa de los intestinos esta positivamente correlacionada con la TMB. 
10.2307/1369465|Like males of approximately 30 other species of North American passerines, male Black-headed Grosbeaks (Pheucticus melanocephalus) do not attain complete definitive alternate plumage until their second breeding season. I collected yearling and adult male Black-headed Grosbeaks in the Rio Grande valley in central New Mexico to test the hypothesis that delayed plumage maturation in Black-headed Grosbeaks is one manifestation of a general, hormonally-mediated developmental pattern. I compared the mass of testes to the degree of plumage maturation in eleven yearling males and found a significant positive correlation. Moreover, the mean testis mass of yearling males was significantly lower than the mean testis mass of older males. In contrast, I found no significant relationship between plumage brightness and testis mass among seven adult males in definitive alternate plumage. These observations support the idea that delayed plumage maturation in Black-headed Grosbeaks is part of a general delay in investment in first-year reproduction.
40072322|We compared home range areas and habitat selection of radio-marked Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalism and Barred Owls (Strix varia) in an area of sympatry in the northern Cascade Range of Washington in 1986-1989. On average, home ranges of Spotted Owls were 3-4 times larger than ranges of Barred Owls, and there was little overlap of home ranges during the breeding season. Ranges of both species tended to expand during winter. Home range size of both species was negatively correlated with the amount of old forest, but the negative slope of the regression was much steeper for Spotted Owls than for Barred Owls. For both species, home ranges of individual owls typically had high overlap among seasons and years, indicating high site fidelity. Barred Owls generally occupied home ranges at lower elevations than Spotted Owls (mean = 386  27 m vs. 750  68 m). Both species tended to use old forests more than expected, but Spotted Owls tended to use other cover types less than expected, whereas Barred Owls used most other cover types in proportion to their availability. We suggest that Spotted Owls may use larger ranges than Barred Owls because they prey selectively on a few species of nocturnal mammals, whereas Barred Owls forage more evenly across a broad range of prey types, including diurnal and aquatic species. The low overlap of Barred Owl and Spotted Owl home ranges suggests that territorial Barred Owls exclude Spotted Owls from their territories, at least during the breeding season, thus reducing the amount of habitat available to Spotted Owls. /// Comparamos las reas de los mbitos de hogar y la selecctin de hbitat de individuos marcados con radiotransmisores de Strix occidentalis y S. varia en un rea de simpatra en el norte del cordn montaoso Cascade en el estado de Washington, entre los anos 1986 y 1989. En promedio, los mbitos de hogar de S. occidentalis fueron 3 a 4 veces ms grandes que los mbitos de S. varia y hubo poca superposicin de los mbitos de hogar durante la poca reproductiva. Los mbitos de las dos especies tendieron a expandirse durante el invierno. El tamao del mbito de hogar para las dos especies se correlacion negativamente con la cantidad de bosque antiguo, pero la pendiente de esta regresin fue mucho ms pronunciada para S. occidentalis que para S. varia. Para las dos especies, los mbitos de hogar a nivel individual tuvieron tpicamente una alta superposicin entre estaciones y aos, indicando una alta fidelidad de sitio. Generalmente S. varia ocup mbitos de hogar a elevaciones ms bajas que S. occidentalis (promedio = 386  27 m vs. 750  68 m). Ambas especies tendieron a usar bosques antiguos ms de lo esperado, pero S. occidentalis tendi a usar otros tipos de vegetacin menos de lo esperado, mientras que S. varia utiliz la mayora de los otros tipos de vegetacin proporcionalmente a su disponibilidad. Sugerimos que S. occidentalis podra utilizar mbitos de hogar ms grandes que S. varia debido a que la primera depreda selectivamente sobre algunas especies de mamiferos nocturnos, mientras que S. varia se alimenta de un amplio rango de tipos de presas, incluyendo especies diurnas y acuticas. La baja superposicin de los mbitos de hogar de estas especies sugiere que los individuos territoriales de S. varia excluyen a los individuos de S. occidentalis de sus territorios, por lo menos durante la poca reproductiva, lo que reducira la cantidad de hbitat disponible para S. occidentalis.
10.2307/1367502|The foraging behavior of the Acorn Woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus) was observed during the dry season in the Pine Ridge region of Belize. The birds ate a variety of foods commonly consumed by this species in temperate regions, including flying insects, oak sap, and insects obtained by surface gleaning and probing. All birds also stored large numbers of acorns in natural cavities and in woodpecker-modified holes. The woodpeckers' social organization here resembled that found in most temperate habitats. All of the birds observed lived in stable social groups that contained between two and six individuals. No solitary birds were recorded. Although nesting was not studied, it is likely that the birds breed communally in Belize as elsewhere in their range.
1370669| The Atlantic Yellow-nosed Albatross (Thalassarche chlororhynchos) breeds only at the Tristan da Cunha archipelago and Gough Island in the central South Atlantic Ocean, and is threatened by mortality from longline fisheries operating in the South Atlantic. Demographic data have been collected from two study colonies on Gough Island and Tristan da Cunha for 20 years. Annual variation in the number of breeding birds was strongly correlated between the two islands, and over the whole study period both study populations have trended downward at around 1.2% per year. The number of established breeders on Gough Island has declined more rapidly, and significantly, at an annual rate of 2.3%. Monitoring established breeders may be a sensitive means of detecting population trends. Average breeding success (67-69%) and breeding frequency (66-65%) were very similar on the two islands. On Gough Island immature and adult annual apparent survival averaged 88  3% and 92  1%, respectively, and apparent survival from fledging to age 5 has averaged 31  8%. Apparent adult survival on Tristan da Cunha averaged only 84  2%. Annual survival of Tristan birds was negatively correlated with longline fishing effort in the South Atlantic Ocean. Population modeling predicts annual rates of decrease of 1.5-2.8% on Gough Island and 5.5% on Tristan da Cunha. Comparison with congeners suggests that the observed and predicted decreases are most likely to be caused by low adult and immature survival. The conservation status of Atlantic Yellow-nosed Albatrosses should be changed from Near Threatened to Endangered. /// El albatros Thalassarche chlororhynchos slo se reproduce en el archipilago Tristan da Cunha y en la isla Gough en el Ocano Atlntico Sur central, y se encuentra amenazado debido a la mortalidad causada por las pesqueras de espinel que operan en el Atlntico Sur. Se colectaron datos demogrficos durante 20 aos en dos colonias reproductivas en el archipilago Tristan da Cunha y en la isla Gough. La variacin anual en el nmero de aves reproductivas se correlacion fuertemente entre las dos islas, y durante todo el perodo de estudio ambas poblaciones han presentado tendencias de decrecimiento de aproximadamente un 1.2% por ao. El nmero de reproductores establecidos en la isla Gough ha disminuido significativamente y ms rpidamente, a una tasa anual de 2.3%. El monitoreo de los reproductores que se establecen puede ser un medio sensible para detectar tendencias poblacionales. El xito reproductivo promedio (67-69%) y la frecuencia de cra (66-65%) fueron muy similares en ambas islas. En la isla Gough la sobrevivencia aparente de inmaduros y adultos fue en promedio de 88  3% y 92  1%, respectivamente. La sobrevivencia de volantones a la edad de 5 aos fue en promedio de 31  8%. La sobrevivencia aparente de adultos en Tristan de Cunha fue en promedio slo de 84  2%. La sobrevivencia anual de las aves de Tristan se correlacion negativamente con el esfuerzo de la pesca de espinel en el Ocano Atlntico Sur. Los modelos poblacionales predicen tasas de disminucin anuales de un 1.5-2.8% en la isla Gough y de un 5.5% en Tristan da Cunha. Comparaciones con congneres sugieren que las disminuciones observadas y predichas son muy probablemente causadas por la baja sobreviviencia de adultos e inmaduros. La categora de conservacin del albatros T. chlororhynchos debera ser cambiada de "casi amenazada" a "en peligro." 
1369829| Ptilochronology is a technique in which the growth rate of a feather is used as an assay of a bird's condition. Two important questions remain regarding this decade-old technique: (1) Does the daily rate of feather growth correspond very closely with changes in nutritional status during feather growth? and (2) For which stressors can ptilochronology be used as a reliable assay? Using an experimental manipulation of diet, we tested the effectiveness of ptilochronology for assessing nutritional condition in male White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis). Our hypothesis was that birds given an ample diet would be in better condition than those given a subsistence diet, as indicated by faster feather growth. In a second experiment, we examined the effect of a stressor, low social status, on feather growth. We expected that dominant birds would be in better condition and regrow feathers faster than subordinates because of their priority of access to food. Birds fed an enriched diet weighed more, grew longer feathers, and had wider growth bars than birds receiving a diet lower in protein and calories. Dominants retained more fat than subordinates, but did not grow significantly longer feathers or wider growth bars. However, within flocks, the differences in social status between the birds corresponded to differences in growth-bar width. Our results support the validity of ptilochronology for directly detecting differences in nutritional status during feather regrowth, and point to a likely influence of social status, a density-dependent ecological stressor, on feather growth rates. /// La ptilocronologa es una tcnica en la que la tasa de crecimiento de una pluma se utiliza para examinar la condicin fsica de un ave. Dos preguntas sobre esta tcnica desarrollada hace una dcada permanecen abiertas. Primero, est la tasa diaria de crecimiento de las plumas relacionada estrechamente con cambios en el estatus nutricional de las aves durante el crecimiento de las plumas? Segundo, para cules agentes causantes de estrs puede usarse la ptilocronologa como un examinador confiable? Mediante una manipulacin experimental de la dieta, pusimos a prueba la efectividad de la ptilocronologa para determinar la condicin nutricional de machos de Zonotrichia albicollis. Nuestra hiptesis era que aves con una dieta rica estaran en mejor condicin que aves con una dieta de subsistencia, lo que sera indicado por un crecimiento ms rpido de las plumas. En un segundo experimento, evaluamos el efecto de un factor de estrs (bajo estatus social) en el crecimiento de las plumas. Esperbamos que las aves dominantes estuvieran en mejor condicin y que sus plumas crecieran ms rpidamente que las de aves subordinadas debido a su acceso prioritario al alimento. Las aves con dieta rica pesaron ms, desarrollaron plumas ms largas y tuvieron barras de crecimiento ms amplias que las aves que recibieron una dieta con menor contenido de protenas y caloras. Las aves dominantes retuvieron ms grasa que las subordinadas pero no desarrollaron plumas significativamente ms largas ni barras de crecimiento ms amplias. Sin embargo, al interior de bandadas, las diferencias en estatus social entre las aves se reflejaron en diferencias en la amplitud de las barras de crecimiento. Nuestros resultados apoyan la validez de la ptilocronologa para detectar diferencias en estatus nutricional durante el perodo de crecimiento de las plumas directamente y apuntan a una probable influencia del estatus social (un factor ecolgico denso-dependiente causante de estrs) sobre las tasas de crecimiento de las plumas. 
10.2307/1368266|Starch gel electrophoresis was used to examine variation at 33 genetic loci in 19 taxa (15 species in 6 genera) of cardueline finches (family Fringillidae). Levels of heterozygosity and genetic distances were comparable to those reported from surveys of other avian taxa. Twenty-three loci (70%) were polymorphic within taxa and/or were fixed at alternative alleles among taxa. Rogers' genetic distances were used to construct phenograms, distance Wagner trees, and F-M trees; these provided hypotheses for the evolutionary relationships of taxa. The genetic data indicate that: (1) Coccothraustes, Pinicola, Leucosticte, Carpodacus, Carduelis, and Loxia are distinctive genera that vary in estimated age (as measured from nearest branch point) from approximately 14 MY (Coccothraustes) to 5 MY (Loxia); (2) species treated by the AOU (1983) as congeners within Carpodacus, Carduelis, and Loxia are correctly classified to genus; (3) the subgenera Acanthis, Astragalinus, Spinus, and Carduelis, within the genus Carduelis, are recognizable; (4) the crossbills (Loxia) are most closely allied to Carduelis among the genera examined; (5) Carpodacus purpureus and C. cassinii are closely related sister species whereas C. mexicanus is very distinct; (6) Loxia curvirostra and L. leucoptera are moderately different electrophoretically; (7) in contrast, the red-polls, Carduelis flammea and C. hornemanni exilipes, are similar genetically; (8) most speciation events in North American carduelines range from mid-late Pliocene (4 MY) to mid-Pleistocene (500,000 years) in age; but (9) subspecies diverged in the late Pleistocene. A phylogeny of cardueline genera derived from these electrophoretic data agrees in major respects with one proposed by Raikow on the basis of hindlimb myology. The sequence of appearance of older taxa is still not resolved with certainty, however, because of partially conflicting molecular and morphologic results.
10.2307/1368800|Nocturnal foraging was examined in American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) at the Dauphin River, about 50 km from a breeding colony on Lake Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. From two to three times as many pelicans foraged at night as in the daytime, with foraging flocks being larger at night. In contrast, more pelicans were present at adjacent loafing sites during the day. Capture rates were highest for flocks of up to 100 foragers in the daytime, but showed no relationship to flock size at night. Rates of bill dipping and mean duration of dips were significantly greater at night, but capture rates were significantly lower. Lower capture rates at night were to some extent offset by the capture of more large fish, probably because they were more accessible at that time. Most of the day-night differences in capture efficiency appeared to be due to lower visual sensitivity of pelicans at night.
40072430|Subspecies are assumed to have unique evolutionary histories, but molecular data sometimes contradict subspecies designations based on morphology. A recent genetic survey of the Yellow-throated Warbler (
10.2307/1370229| Prior studies have shown that plasma metabolite levels differ between feeding and short-term fasted passerines. This study investigates whether the metabolic response to short-term fasting varies during the course of the daylight hours or between birds during the postbreeding, molting and migratory period. In four species of migratory passerines, six plasma metabolite levels were measured in short-term fasted and feeding birds. Compared with feeding birds, short-term fasted birds showed decreased plasma triglyceride and glucose levels, increased -hydroxy-butyrate and free fatty acid levels, and stable uric acid levels. This indicates that short-term fasting birds use lipids from adipose tissues and from the diet, but do not spare protein and carbohydrates. Birds during the postbreeding, molting and migratory period generally showed a similar response to short-term fasting. The metabolic response to short-term fasting was modified during the course of the day. In the early morning, short-term fasted birds exhibited similar metabolite levels as overnight fasted birds. During the course of the day, -hydroxy-butyrate levels increased progressively less during short-term fasting, probably as a consequence of restored glycogen stores and increased food-intake and lipid stores. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100223|Long-term studies over a variety of regions, species, and time periods can help link trends in climate to changes in bird phenology and provide better understanding of potential effects of climate change. We analyzed first spring arrival dates of 93 species of migrants from the Buffalo Ornithological Society's database covering the period from 1967 to 2008. Migrants appeared a mean 0.10 days earlier each year. Short-range migrants, traveling from a winter range within North America, have advanced their average arrival more, 0.15 days per year, than have long-range migrants from Central America, South America, or the West Indies, whose advance averaged 0.06 days per year. We regressed arrival dates against the temperature of short-range migrants' winter range, as represented by Houston, Texas, and the North American Oscillation Index as indicators of climate change. The Houston temperature correlates well with earlier arrival dates, especially for short-range migrants. We compared our results with similar studies across North America and found general agreement with the trends we observed. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that climate change has a strong influence on the phenology of bird migration.
4151047| In many bird species, eggs laid late in the breeding season hatch after a shorter incubation period than eggs that were laid early. The proximate mechanisms that cause these seasonal declines in incubation length remain poorly understood. We tested in Yellow-eyed Penguins (Megadyptes antipodes), Hipfner's hypothesis that late-laid eggs have thinner eggshells with a higher pore density that allow embryos to develop more rapidly than in earlylaid eggs. In this species incubation length declines with increasing female age, so we also investigated whether eggshell thickness and pore density varies with female age. In addition, differences in shell thickness and pore density between first-and second-laid eggs of the same clutch were examined. Eggshell thickness did not change with laying date and was not related to length of incubation. In contrast, pore density increased with laying date and was negatively related to incubation length in first-laid eggs. Eggshell thickness and pore density increased with female age. Second-laid eggs had a lower pore density and approximately 900 fewer pores than first-laid eggs of the same clutch. Our study suggests that embryos of late-laid eggs may be able to develop faster than embryos of early-laid eggs because of a greater capacity for gas exchange. Further work on eggshell porosity could provide answers to some long-standing questions about the evolutionary advantages of seasonal declines in incubation periods and their underlying mechanisms. /// En muchas especies de aves, los huevos puestos hacia fines de la estacin reproductiva eclosionan luego de un perodo de incubatin ms breve que los huevos puestos ms temprano. Los mecanismos prximos que causan estas disminuciones estacionales del perodo de incubatin permanecen an poco entendidos. Aqu evaluamos la hiptesis de Hipfner en Megadyptes antipodes, la cual sostiene que los huevos puestos tardamente tienen cscara ms delgadas y mayor densidad de poros que los huevos puestos ms temprano, lo que permite que los embriones se desarrollen ms rpidamente. En esta especie, el perodo de incubatin disminuye a medida que aumenta la edad de la hembra, por lo que tambin investigamos si el espesor de la cscara del huevo y la densidad de poros varan con la edad de la hembra. De modo adicional, examinamos las diferencias en el espesor de la cscara y en la densidad de poros entre huevos de la primera y la segunda puesta dentro de una misma nidada. El espesor de la cscara del huevo no vari con la fecha de puesta y no se relacion con la duratin del perodo de incubatin. En contraste, la ensidad de poros increment con la fecha de puesta y se relacion negativamente con la duratin del perodo de incubatin en los huevos de la primera puesta. El espesor de la cscara y la densidad de poros incrementaron con la edad de la hembra. Los huevos de la segunda puesta tuvieron una densidad de poros menor y aproximadamente 900 poros menos que los huevos de la primera puesta para una misma nidada. Nuestro estudio sugiere que los embriones de huevos puestos tardamente pueden ser capaces de desarrollarse ms rpido que los embriones de huevos puestos tempranamente debido a una mayor capacidad de intercambio de gases. Estudios adicionales de la porosidad de la cscara del huevo podran ofrecer respuestas a preguntas irresueltas sobre las ventajas evolutivas de las disminuciones estacionales de los perodos de incubatin y sobre sus mecanismos subyacentes. 
1370737| Animal vocalizations used for long-distance communication are shaped by acoustic properties of the environment. Studies of the relationship between signal design and sound transmission typically focus on habitat-induced limitations due to signal attenuation and degradation. However, signal design may not entirely be explained by habitat limitations, but rather by beneficial consequences of reverberations. Narrow-frequency bandwidth notes (NFB notes) are pure notes that change little in frequency, and are typical for many bird species living in dense tropical forests. In contrast to frequency-modulated notes, we show that reverberations lead to a longer and louder signal after transmission for NFB notes. Furthermore, playback experiments to territorial males of an African passerine indicated that longer notes led to a stronger behavioral response. These results suggest that reverberations may benefit signal efficiency depending on the signal design, and add new insight into the selection pressures imposed on acoustic signals by the environment. /// Las vocalizaciones utilizadas por animales para la comunicacin a larga distancia estn condicionadas por las propiedades acsticas del entorno. Los estudios sobre la relacin entre el diseo de las seales y la transmisin del sonido suelen centrarse en los lmites impuestos por el hbitat debido a la atenuacin y degradacin de la seal. Sin embargo, es posible que el diseo de la seal no est regido exclusivamente por las limitaciones del habitat, sino por las consecuencias beneficiosas de las reverberaciones. Las notas de frecuencia de banda estrecha (notas NFB) son notas puras que cambian poco de frecuencia y son tpicas de varias especies que habitan bosques tropicales densos. Al contrario que en las notas de frecuencia modulada, mostramos que las reverberaciones alargan y aumentan la seal de las notas NFB. Asimismo, experimentos de playback con machos territoriales de un paseriforme africano indican que las notas ms largas provocan una mayor respuesta. Estos resultados sugieren que las reverberaciones pueden mejorar la eficiencia de la seal, dependiendo del diseo de la misma, y aaden un nuevo componente a nuestro conocimiento sobre las presiones selectivas impuestas por el entorno sobre las seales acsticas. 
10.2307/1369505|We compared the diet of Ring-billed Gulls during the nestling period using two simultaneous sampling methods: pellets regurgitated by adults and direct observations of chick provisioning. We also compared the dietary composition of courtship feeds and adult spontaneous regurgitations to that of chick provisions and found no difference between the diets of adults and chicks. The two sampling methods suggested strikingly different diets at the same colony location. Pellets were predominantly composed of plant material, birds and scavenged human refuse (67% of individual items identified), while insects (19%) and fish (11%) made up the rest of the identifiable food remains. In contrast, most Ring-billed Gull chicks were fed either earthworms (50%) or whole fish (44%). Our observations of chick diet lacked insects possibly because we did not record feeding data during the evening (due to logistical limitations). Pellet contents were biased by the over-representation of indigestible hard parts of some food types (e.g., plant, human refuse) and lack of hard parts of others (e.g., earthworms). Such technique-dependent biases led to a non-random sample of food remains from gulls that fed on garbage and in farm fields, representing approximately seven percent of the population. Given the importance of diet studies, there is a need for more systematic, controlled studies to calibrate sampling techniques to actual animal diets.
1370718| We used videocameras to monitor 39 nests of the Banded Dotterel (Charadrius bicinctus), a ground-nesting plover endemic to New Zealand that suffers from predation by introduced mammals. To test whether monitoring nests increased the chances of nests being visited by predators, 22 of the video-monitored nests were approached on foot daily to simulate conventional monitoring and 17 unapproached nests were monitored using videocameras only. The proportions of approached nests (46%) and unapproached nests (41%) that were visited by predators did not differ significantly, nor was there any evidence that predators used human scent trails to locate nests. This study provides some evidence that monitoring Banded Dotterel nests by regularly checking them does not influence their risk of predation. /// Usamos cmaras de video para controlar 39 nidos de Charadrius bicinctus, un ave endmica de Nueva Zelandia que anida en el suelo y es depredada por mamferos introducidos. Diariamente nos acercamos a pie a 22 de los nidos controlados con cmaras para simular el modo convencional de seguimiento, y controlamos 17 nidos usando slo las cmaras y sin acercarnos a ellos con el fin de examinar si el control convencional de nidos incrementa la probabilidad de visita de depredadores. La proporcin de nidos personalmente examinados (46%) y no examinados en persona (41%) que fueron visitados por depredadores no difiri significativamente, y no hubo evidencia que los depredadores usan rastros de olores humanos para localizar los nidos. Este estudio sugiere que controlar regularmente los nidos de Charadrius bicinctus no influencia su riesgo de depredacin. 
10.2307/1368318|Song development and territory establishment were studied in the permanently resident Nuttall's White-crowned Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli). Hatching-year birds (juveniles) begin subsong in July, and the first crystallized songs are heard in late September. Social interaction with territorial adults accelerates song development so that song crystallizes earlier in wild juveniles than in hand-raised laboratory birds. Some juveniles begin staking out territories in September and October. At this time individuals may sing up to four song types. As time progresses settling juveniles use only one or sometimes two song types which match those of neighbors with whom they interact. Singing is performed circumannually, even during the molt in this subspecies, reflecting its year-round territoriality.
10.2307/1370475|We examined the dimensions, nearest-neighbor distance, density, vegetation cover, shelter, and substrate of nest cavities in a multispecific colony of Procellariiformes: Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea), Little Shearwater (Puffinus assimilis), Bulwer's Petrel (Bulweria bulwerii), and Band-rumped Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma castro). We investigated differences in nest cavity dimensions between species, the influence of nest cavity characteristics on hatching success of Cory's Shearwater and Band-rumped Storm-Petrel, and intra- and interspecific competition for nest cavities by using natural and artificial nests. Dimensions of nest cavities were highly correlated with species' body size. Physical features of the nests of Cory's Shearwater differed from those of small petrels. Physical features of the nests of small petrels overlapped extensively. Physical features helped to explain hatching success of Cory's Shearwater, and crowding influences contributed to hatching success of Band-rumped Storm-Petrel. Sheltered nest cavities had higher hatching success, but nest cavity characteristics interacted with the quality of breeders. Breadth and volume of eggs laid by Cory's Shearwater in artificial nests were significantly smaller than those in nearby natural nests, indicating that young breeders likely occupied artificial nests. Cory's Shearwater laid in half of the artificial nest cavities built for them, and excavated natural and artificial nest cavities of small petrels. We suggest that the breeding population of Cory's Shearwater includes high numbers of new breeders and is regulated by the availability of nest cavities. Results indicated that interference competition within and between Cory's Shearwater and small petrels is important in the structure of this procellariiform breeding community.
10.2307/1370276|The drumming patterns of 11 species of California woodpeckers were analyzed to determine if this long-distance signal is species-specific. Analyses for differences in the drum signal by sex, region, and playback initiation was performed on 5 of the 11 species. Nuttall's Woodpecker (Picoides nuttallii), White-headed Woodpecker (P. albolarvatus), Downy Woodpecker (P. pubescens), and Hairy Woodpecker (P. villosus) showed no significant difference in the drum signal for the above categories. Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) showed a significant difference in region and sex. Species discrimination showed signal overlap between Nuttall's and White-headed Woodpeckers, and between Hairy and Ladder-backed Woodpeckers (P. scalaris), and also between Northern Flicker and Hairy, Nuttall's, and White-headed Woodpeckers. Signal analysis of only syntopic species decreased misclassification and posterior probability error rates indicating syntopic, but not allotopic, signal specificity. Stepwise discrimination indicated cadence as the predominant variable for separation of species. Hairy and Downy Woodpeckers were not reciprocally misclassified, nor were Nuttall's and Ladder-backed, indicating drumming is a diagnostic indicator between these phenotypically similar species. We hypothesize that modulation of the drum in sapsucker species could minimize signal equivocation between syntopic woodpecker species with a matching introductory cadence. Signal equivocation between Northern Flickers and syntopic species is postulated as a possible selective pressure favoring the diagnostic long call prevalent in the species, rather than drumming.
10.2307/1368879|Manx Shearwater (Puffinus puffinus) pairs on Skokholm Island, Wales, typically breed together over several seasons, rearing one chick per year. There is a seasonal decline of chick fledging weight. Even after correction for this decline, pairs tend to rear chicks that are consistently heavier or lighter than predicted on the basis of the chick's hatching date. These deviations may reflect pair quality. Weight and hatching date of a chick are not correlated with age of fledging. However, fledging ages of full siblings show significantly less variation than those of nonsiblings. The character appears highly heritable, with a heritability value around 0.84. This is the first study to address the extent to which the fledging age of wild birds is genetically determined.
40072459|We tested statistical models developed to predict abundances of grassland birds in the Prairie Hardwood Transition Bird Conservation Region of the upper midwestern United States. Roadside surveys were used to estimate relative abundances of grassland birds in 800 ha areas in the Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin portions of the region in 20032005. We then compared observed abundances with predicted abundances from spatial hierarchical models for seven species. Spearman's rho statistic for rank correlations suggested that observed abundances were positively correlated with predicted abundances for all species (
10.2307/1368206|We performed a phylogenetic and biogeographic study of the riflebird genus Ptiloris (Paradisaeidae). Our analysis, which includes sonograms documenting intertaxonomic variation in male advertisement vocalizations and a reassessment of key morphological characters, indicates that (1) the genus includes two distinct clades (P. victoriae/paradiseus and the P. magnificus complex); (2) within the P. magnificus complex, the eastern Papuan form may constitute a heretofore unrecognized sibling species; and (3) the biogeography of Ptiloris provides additional confirming evidence that the Torres Strait has been of minor importance as a biogeographic barrier for Australo-Papuan rainforest birds.
4151053| We estimated concentrations of fecal reproductive steroid metabolites in freeranging California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) during the breeding season. We collected fresh fecal samples (n = 142) from 65 individual owls in the Sierra Nevada during April-August of 2001. We developed and validated radioimmunoassay procedures to quantify fecal estrogen metabolites and fecal testosterone metabolites. We used an information-theoretic approach to identify factors that might influence fecal estrogen (E), fecal testosterone (T), and fecal estrogen:testosterone ratio (E:T ratio) levels during the owl's breeding season. We hypothesized that factors related to sampling procedures, owl characteristics (sex, reproductive status), and habitat might influence fecal reproductive steroid levels. Our analyses suggested that sampling factors and owl characteristics, but not habitat variables, were related to fecal reproductive steroid levels in Spotted Owls. Our most supported models explained <30 of the observed variation. Fecal testosterone levels were higher in male Spotted Owls than females, whereas E:T ratios were higher in females compared to males. High fecal estrogens were correlated with high fecal glucocorticoids in nonbreeding Spotted Owls, whereas fecal estrogens and fecal glucocorticoids were not related in breeding birds. Sampling influenced fecal reproductive steroid measures, and bias from small-mass fecal samples might partially explain these relationships. Noninvasive measurements of fecal reproductive steroids might be useful for sex determination and reproductive assessment of free-ranging Spotted Owls. However, more research is needed to understand the variability we observed in sex steroids before this technique can be effective in conservation studies. /// Estimamos las concentraciones de metabolitos esteroides reproductivos en individuos silvestres de la especie Strix occidentalis occidentalis durante la poca reproductiva. Colectamos muestras fecales frescas (n = 142) pertenecientes a 65 lechuzas en la Sierra Nevada entre abril y agosto de 2001. Desarrollamos y validamos un procedimiento de radioinmunoensayo para cuantificar metabolitos de estrgeno fecales y metabolitos de testosterona fecales. Utilizamos un enfoque informativo-terico para identiflcar los factores que podran influenciar los niveles de estrgenos fecales (E), testosterona fecal (T) y el cociente entre estrgenos y testosterona (cociente E:T) durante la poca reproductiva de las lechuzas. Hipotetizamos que factores relacionados con los procedimientos de muestreo, caractersticas de la lechuza (sexo, estado reproductive) y el hbitat podran influenciar los niveles de esteroides reproductivos en las fecas. Nuestros anlisis sugieren que los factores asociados al muestreo y las caractersticas de la lechuza se correlacionaron con los niveles de esteroides reproductivos en las fecas, pero stos no se relacionaron con las variables de hbitat. Nuestro modelo ms robusto explic <30% de la variacin observada. Los niveles de testosterona fecal fueron mayores en los machos que en las hembras, mientras que el cuociente E:T fue mayor en las hembras que en los machos. En lechuzas no reproductivas, los niveles altos de estrgenos fecales se correlacionaron con niveles altos de glucocorticoides fecales, mientras que en individuos reproductivos los estrogenos fecales y los glucorticoides fecales no se correlacionaron. Estas relaciones pueden ser explicadas en parte por la influencia del muestreo sobre las medidas de esteroides reproductivos fecales y por el sesgo causado por muestras fecales muy livianas. Los niveles de esteroides reproductivos fecales medidos con tcnicas no invasivas pueden ser tiles para la determinacin de sexos y la evaluatin del estado reproductive de individuos silvestres de la especie S. occidentalis occidentalis. Sin embargo, antes de que esta tcnica pueda ser efectiva en estudios de conservatin, se requiere de ms investigatin para entender la variabilidad que observamos en los niveles de esteroides sexuales. 
10.2307/1367468|Nest and egg successes are documented for open-nesting bird species in a variety of riparian habitats in central Iowa. In most species, nest success was higher during the nestling period than during the incubation period. Causes of nest failure in order of decreasing importance were: predation by birds, snakes, or small mammals; predation by large mammals; desertion; cowbird parasitism; natural disasters. Relationships between nesting outcome and the following variables are analyzed statistically: adult weight, date, nest height, nest concealment, vegetation form supporting the nest (support life-form), and habitat type. Nest failure resulting from predation by large mammals and parasitism by cowbirds was greater among smaller-sized birds. The percentage of nests successfully fledging young increased with nest height. Losses from natural disasters differed among the support life-forms. Relationships among the factors that may affect nesting outcome are compared statistically to determine possible interactions. Mean body weight, which differed according to nest support life-forms, decreased as the season advanced. Body weight also was inversely related to nest concealment. Concealment differed among nest supports and was greater later in the breeding season. Concealment also was inversely related to nest height. The distribution of nests in the support life-forms changed during the season. Species more generalized in selecting nest substrates had lower nest success.
1370101| In this study, we used open-circuit respirometry and the doubly labeled water technique (DLW) to examine the thermal ecology and ecological energetics of California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis). Our physiological and behavioral observations indicated that Spotted Owls are less heat tolerant than typical birds. At temperatures above the thermoneutral zone (18.2-35.2C), resting metabolic rate increased 1.48 times faster than predicted allometrically, and behavioral responses to heat stress (increased breathing rate, ptiloerection, gaping, and wing drooping) occurred at relatively modest temperatures, 30-34C. Our data support the hypothesis that Spotted Owls prefer old-growth and late seral stage forests because they provide favorable microclimates. Our metabolic measurements reveal that Spotted Owls have exceptionally low energy requirements. Their basal metabolic rate, 10.13  0.46 J g<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>, is only 82% of that predicted allometrically for owls. Field metabolic rate (FMR) of five adults provisioning dependent young averaged 249  60 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>, only 34% of that predicted for comparably sized non-passerine birds. We calculated Spotted Owl prey requirements from our FMR data, laboratory determinations of assimilation efficiency (77%), and the body composition of representative prey types. On average, Spotted Owls feeding young can meet their own energy needs by consuming one northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus) every 1.8 days or one woodrat (Neotoma fuscipes) every 3.7 days. /// En este estudio usamos respirometra de circuito abierto y la tcnica de agua doble-marcada (DLW) para examinar la ecologa trmica y la energtica ecolgica de la lechuza moteada californiana (Strix occidentalis occidentalis). Nuestras observaciones fisio-logicas y comportamentales indican que las lechuzas moteadas son menos tolerantes a temperaturas elevadas que las aves en general. A temperaturas sobre de la zona de neutralidad trmica (18.2-35.2C), la tasa metablica basal se increment 1.48 veces ms rpido que la predicha alomtricamente, y la respuesta en el comportamiento a la tensin trmica (incremento en la tasa respiratoria, ereccin de las plumas, jadeo y el reposo de las alas) ocurri a temperaturas relativamente bajas (30-34C). Nuestros datos son consistentes con la hiptesis que las lechuzas moteadas prefieren bosques maduros y en etapas avanzadas de susecin debido a su microclima favorable. Nuestras medidas metablicas indican que las lechuzas moteadas tienen requerimientos energticos excepcionalmente bajos. Su tasa metablica basal, 10.13  0.46 J g<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>, representa solo el 82% del valor predicho para lechuzas. La tasa metablica de campo (TMC) de cinco adultos que se encuentraban criando polluelos promedi 249  60 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>, solamente un 34% del valor predicho para aves nopaserinas de tamao comparable. Calculamos los requisitos de alimentacin para lechuzas moteadas usando nuestros datos de TMC, las determinaciones en el laboratorio de la eficiencia de la asimilacin (77%), y la composicin corporal de varios tipos de alimentos. En promedio, las lechuzas moteadas criando polluelos pueden mantenerse alimentandose de una ardilla (Glaucomys sabrinus) cada 1.8 das o una rata (Neotoma fuscipes) cada 3.7 das. 
10.2307/1368603|Current status of Mariana Common Moorhens (Gallinula chloropus guami) in the Mariana Islands was determined by wetland surveys. A total of 300-400 moorhens exist on Guam, Saipan and Tinian. Extinctions have occurred recently on Pagan and prehistorically on Rota. A review of literature, field notes, and habitat loss indicates the subspecies' total population has probably been reduced by at least 36-52% in this century. The degradation and loss of wetlands and introduced competitors and predators pose the greatest threats to the moorhen in the Marianas.
10.2307/1369790|We tested whether Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) avoided abrupt forest edges by radiotracking males breeding in small, isolated forest patches (0.5-2.0 ha) in northwest Pennsylvania. Because territory edges were synonymous with abrupt forest edges in all cases, we compared space use patterns with males radiotracked in a nearby continuous forest (150 ha), where we defined edge from territorial boundaries. Based on the proportion of edge to core area, males in both habitats avoided the area within 20 m of the edge, implying that males responded to the presence of territory edge rather than forest edge. Surprisingly, however, males in isolated fragments used the edge area significantly more than males in continuous forest, even when measured against the relative amount of edge area within each territory. Elevated levels of edge use were not related to distance of nests to edges, nest stage, or time of day. We conclude that the presence of physical edges is not the sole determinant of territorial space use in this species and there are likely additional social factors influencing occupancy rates in small, isolated woodlots. Therefore, definitions of forest-interior species based on edge use need to be reconsidered.
1370394| Based on distributional, ecologic, morphologic, and vocal data, Klicka et al. (1999) argued in favor of species status for the form taverneri, long regarded as a subspecies of the Brewer's Sparrow (Spizella breweri). For several reasons we disagree with their conclusion: lack of evidence for the reproductive isolation of taverneri from breweri, loss of information on the close relationship and allopatric distribution of the two taxa that would accompany their elevation to species, and violation of the principle of taxonomic balance. Until the demonstration of vocal or display differences relevant to pair formation and maintenance, taverneri and breweri are best regarded as reproductively compatible subspecies. /// Usando datos de distribucin, ecolgicos, morfolgicos, y de vocalizacin, Klicka y colaboradores (1999) argumentaron a favor de reconocer a nivel de especie la forma taverneri, la cual ha sido considerada por mucho tiempo una subespecie del gorrin de Brewer (Spizella breweri). Nosotros diferimos de esta conclusin por varias razones: ausencia de evidencia de aislamiento reproductivo entre taverneri y breweri, prdida de informacin sobre la relacin evolutiva ntima y la distribucin aloptrica de los dos taxones que acompaaran su elevacin a nivel de especie, y violacin del principio de balance taxonmico. Hasta que no se demuestre la existencia de diferencias relevantes en vocalizacin y formacin y mantenimiento de parejas, es mejor considerar a taverneri y a breweri como subespecies reproductivamente compatibles. 
10.2307/1368765|Clark's Nutcrackers (Nucifraga columbiana) are dependent on pine seeds as a food source for both nestlings and adults. Here we report on how nine captive individuals open pinyon pine (Pinus edulis) seeds. Two hulling methods were used: crushing, squeezing and cracking the seed coat and separating it from the endosperm while holding the seed in the bill; and pounding, holding a seed between the feet and perch and pounding on it forcefully with the bill until the seed coat cracks. On average, birds crushed 43.7% of their seeds, but three birds pounded over 70% and one crushed over 90%. Seeds that were pounded were significantly wider and had thicker coats than those crushed. Large birds crushed seeds of greater size than did small birds. Pounding took 2.5 times longer than crushing, however, individuals specializing on pounding opened seeds as fast with that technique as other birds did by crushing. Bill-clicking of seeds may function in assessment of hulling method. Seeds that nutcrackers were apparently uncertain of how to open were clicked more than seeds they were apparently certain of how to open. Nutcrackers are efficient seed handlers; they use the less costly crushing technique whenever possible, become very proficient at pounding open seeds, and use a very general behavior (bill-clicking) to assess which hulling technique is the most profitable means of opening a seed. The variability in handling behavior we document leads us to suggest that tests of optimal prey choice be based on profitability of prey to, and choice of prey by, individual predators.
10.2307/1369062|I studied feeding activity of Emperor Geese (Chen canagica) on the Alaska Peninsula during autumn migration, 1991. Scan samples were used to estimate the proportion of birds feeding in flocks as a measure of feeding intensity. Most geese fed during low tides and roosted during high tides. However, flocks with disproportionately more juveniles continued to feed during high tides in either blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) beds (during relatively low high tides) or in vegetated habitats. Feeding intensity was higher in mussel habitats than in mud/sand or vegetated habitats, and juveniles fed more than adults. Juvenile geese probably have greater nutritional needs than adults, and feeding during high tide may represent their attempt to satisfy these disproportionate demands. Vegetated habitats may be used when high value bivalve prey are unavailable due to tidal inundation.
4122533| Accurate offspring discrimination improves parental fitness by ensuring appropriate parental investment. In colonial avian species, offspring discrimination is often mediated by recognition of individual offspring vocalizations, but spatially segregated species do not necessarily need sophisticated recognition abilities if parents can use alternative information to distinguish offspring from nonoffspring. I experimentally tested the hypothesis that territorial California Towhee (Pipilo crissalis) parents use a location-based decision rule, instead of true vocal recognition of offspring, when deciding whether to respond to chick distress calls. Accurate responses to offspring distress calls should be favored by natural selection because they can have large fitness benefits if parents succeed in chasing away potential nest predators. Responses to nonoffspring, in contrast, may be costly and should not be favored by natural selection. Towhee parents were presented with a series of three playback experiments in which I manipulated the identity of the vocalizing chick, the age of resident chicks, and the location of the distress call broadcast. Parents showed no evidence of individual vocal recognition and no pattern of differential response to distress calls when offspring age differed from that of the calling chick. Parents did, however, exhibit a significant tendency to approach distress calls originating near their offspring more often than distress calls originating elsewhere on their territory. These results provide support for the evolution of an offspring discrimination strategy based on a simple location-based decision rule instead of true vocal recognition. /// La identificacin precisa de la progenie por parte de los padres asegura una correcta inversin parental incrementando su adecuacin biolgica. En especies coloniales de aves, la identificacin de la progenie se hace generalmente a travs del reconocimiento de la vocalizacin. En especies con un patrn de segregacin espacial, los mecanismos de reconocimiento no requieren ser muy sofisticados si los padres pueden usar otros mecanismos para reconocer a su progenie. De manera experimental, prob si los adultos territoriales de Pipilo crissalis, usan un mecanismo basado en la localizacin, en vez de un mecanismo autntico de reconocimiento vocal, a la hora de responder a las llamadas de alerta de la progenie. La identificacin precisa de las llamadas de alarma de la progenie debera ser favorecida por el proceso de seleccin natural, dado que al ahuyentar a los posibles predadores, los padres consiguen incrementar su adecuacin biolgica. La respuesta a llamadas de individuos no emparentados, sin embargo, puede ser costosa y no debera ser favorecida por el proceso de seleccin natural. Se expusieron a los padres a tres experimentos de playback en los que manipul la identidad del pollo emisor, la edad de los pollos residentes y la localizacin de la llamada de alerta. Los padres no presentaron evidencias de reconocimiento de los individuos por su vocalizacin, as como ningn patrn de respuesta diferencial cuando los individuos diferan en edad. Sin embargo, los padres tendieron a aproximarse significativamente ms a las llamadas de alerta emitidas cerca de su progenie que a las llamadas de alerta originadas en otros lugares de su territorio. Los resultados obtenidos apoyan la hiptesis de que el reconocimiento de la progenie se basa en un mecanismo simple de localizacin ms que en un reconocimiento autntico de vocalizacin. 
10.2307/1369940|Young Thick-billed Murres leave their natal colony while still incapable of flight, jumping directly to the sea. The brief period of transition from cliff ledge to open ocean results in significant mortality. At Coats Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, we investigated the effects of predation by gulls, murre nest site characteristics, and adult murre aggression on the likelihood that chicks departed to sea. Approximately 20% of chicks that jumped from the cliff failed to depart successfully to sea. Live chicks were rarely taken by predators. Most mortality was caused by drowning, as a result of aggression by adult murres. However, chicks accompanied by defending parents usually were unaffected by aggression from other adult murres. As a result, the most important cause of chick mortality at colony departure was the separation of chick and parent before reaching the sea. Chicks landed alone because either they or their parent were knocked from the nest ledge during fights with neighbors as they moved to the jump site, or because chicks struck cliff ledges during the descent to the water. Apparently, the nearer the nest site was to the edge of the ledge, and the fewer obstructions below the jump site, the greater the departure success of chicks. Site characteristics that determine success during departure may differ from those associated with success in incubation and chick-rearing. Hence the effect of breeding site on reproduction may be incorrectly assessed if departure success is not taken into account.
10.2307/1370321|Much of the protected habitat available to the threatened Marbled Murrelet Brachyramphus marmoratus and other old-growth associated species in the Pacific Northwest is in narrow strips along the coast (e.g., parks and scenic fringes). Using data over two years from three watersheds on southwest Vancouver Island, we show that such shoreline strip forests represent suboptimal habitat for murrelets. Murrelet detections, including circling and subcanopy behaviors, were significantly lower at 30 coastal stations (20-250 m from the shoreline edge) than at 30 interior stations (1.5-21.0 km inland). Densities of predators were significantly higher at the coastal stations. The coastal trees were of similar mean height and diameter, but they had lower structural diversity and provided fewer and less suitable (thinner epiphyte cover on large boughs) nesting platforms than trees in the interior. When possible, reserves for Marbled Murrelets should be placed in interior and not shoreline forests.
4151030|We used four variable microsatellite loci to examine the distribution of genetic variation and degree of genetic structuring among three subcolonies of Waved Albatrosses (Phoebastria irrorata). The breeding population of this species is almost entirely limited to the island of
4123207| Although many forestry management strategies rely on population estimates of indicator species such as woodpeckers (Picidae), empirical estimates of demographic parameters within this taxon are few. We used program MARK to assess influences of age and sex on apparent survival of adult Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) from a six-year mark-recapture study. The top model suggested no differences in apparent survival between the sexes with an overall survival estimate of 0.43 (95% CI: 0.38-0.48). Other models suggested that recapture efficiency differed between the sexes (males: 0.87; females: 0.78), perhaps because males were more philopatric to nest sites. We suggest that high parental investment by male flickers relative to other taxa such as passerines may lead to relatively equal mortality rates between the sexes, rather than the common pattern of female-biased mortality. Survival rates relative to age were constant at least up to the age of three years. Overall, flickers appear to have lower survival than some other woodpecker species and may invest relatively heavily in current reproduction. /// Aunque muchas estrategias de manejo de bosque se basan en estimaciones poblacionales de especies indicadoras como los carpinteros (Picidae), las estimaciones empricas de los parmetros demogrficos de este taxn son escasas. Usamos el programa MARK para estimar las influencias del sexo y de la edad en la supervivencia aparente de los adultos de Colaptes auratus a partir de un estudio de marcado y recaptura de seis aos de duracin. El mejor modelo sugiri que no existen diferencias en la supervivencia aparente entre los sexos, con una estimatin global de la supervivencia de 0.43 (95% IC: 0.38-0.48). Otros modelos sugirieron que la eficiencia de recaptura difiri entre los sexos (machos: 0.87; hembras: 0.78), tal vez debido a que los machos fueron ms filoptricos a los sitios de nidificacin. Sugerimos que la alta inversin parental de los machos en comparacin con otros taxa como los paserinos podra tener como consecuencia que las tasas de mortalidad entre los sexos sean relativamente iguales, y no que la mortalidad se vea sesgada hacia las hembras como ocurre ms comnmente. Las tasas de supervivencia relacionadas a la edad fueron constantes al menos hasta los tres aos de edad. En trminos generales, C. auratus parece presentar una supervivencia menor que la de otras especies de carpinteros y podra invertir de modo relativamente alto en reproduccin. 
10.2307/1370493|Many avian behavior patterns, such as breeding, migration and territoriality, are correlated with changes in hormone levels. Elevated levels of corticosterone, an adrenal steroid hormone, are associated with increased foraging and increased activity levels in birds. Young birds about to take their first flight may benefit from elevated plasma corticosterone levels that facilitate locomotor activity and foraging behavior while they are developing flight and hunting skills. I examined the relationship between corticosterone levels and the timing of nest departure in nestling American Kestrels (Falco sparverius). American Kestrels are cavity nesters and typically depart from the nest between 25-30 days of age, when they take their first flight. I collected blood from 21-25-day-old kestrels and monitored nest boxes to determine date of nest departure. Consistent with my prediction, as birds prepared to depart from the nest their plasma corticosterone levels increased significantly. The relationship between corticosterone levels and nest departure may be particularly important in those cavity nesters that must make a quick transition from inactivity to full-flight at the time of nest departure.
10.2307/1368203|Morphological measurements were taken on study skins of breeding Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) males collected from near the Arctic Circle to the Equator. The data were smoothed using LOESS (a non-linear, non-parametric scatterplot smoother), to elucidate patterns of geographic variation. Individuals are generally larger in the south than in the north, although birds from the Caribbean region show the reverse trend. Wing length follows the overall size trend poorly. Proportionate wing length is much shorter and more rounded in the non-migratory tropical populations, than in the far north. This finding supports the hypothesis that variation in wing length is related to migratory distance. Therefore, wing length is a poor choice for an overall size measure in this species. Comparison of morphological variation with climatic variation in this species provides counter-evidence to James's (1970) modification of Bergmann's Rule, that larger birds should occur in colder, drier climates; the largest Yellow Warblers are in warm, humid climates. In addition, no support for Bergmann's Rule can be detected analyzing the North American or tropical populations separately. Likewise, Allen's Rule (that appendages should be smaller or shorter in cold climates) also is unsupported by the Yellow Warbler.
10.2307/1367415|I examined the relationship of forest structure and vegetation diversity to bird communities in the mixed conifer and red fir zones of the central Sierra Nevada. Bird populations were censused in open- and closed-canopy forests in both vegetation zones from June through September 1974 to test the prediction that structurally similar forests support similar avifaunas. Comparisons of bird and vegetation data revealed that forest canopy cover was a primary factor influencing the size and composition of avian communities in the nesting and post-nesting seasons. Closed-canopy forests had lower bird densities, diversities, species richness and consuming biomasses than open-canopy forests in both vegetation zones. The composition of feeding guilds was similar in the two canopy types, but ground-understory foragers, hummingbirds and flycatchers were less abundant in the closed forests. When analyzed by dominance-diversity curves, bird communities in these conifer habitats generated geometric curves in the closed forests and lognormal curves in the open areas. Lognormal curves indicate more bird species of intermediate abundance. The open forests had well-developed understories and higher foliage-height diversities offering a greater array of foraging substrates for birds.
1370646| The two main pigment types in bird feathers are the red, orange, and yellow carotenoids and the black, gray, and brown melanins. Reports conflict, however, regarding the potential for melanins to produce yellow colors or for carotenoids to produce brown plumages. We used high-performance liquid chromatography to analyze carotenoids and melanins present in the yellow and brown feathers of five avian species: Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis), Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica), King Penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus), Macaroni Penguins (Eudyptes chrysolophus), and neonatal chickens (Gallus domesticus). In none of these species did we detect carotenoid pigments in feathers. Although carotenoids are reportedly contained in the ventral plumage of European Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica rustica), we instead found high concentrations of both eumelanins and phaeomelanins in North American Barn Swallows (H. r. erythrogaster). We believe we have detected a new form of plumage pigment that gives penguin and domestic-chick feathers their yellow appearance. /// Los dos tipos principales de pigmentos que las aves incorporan en sus plumas son carotenoides, para desarrollar plumajes rojo, naranja o amarillo, y melaninas, para adquirir coloracin negra, marrn, gris o tonalidades color tierra. Sin embargo, existe informacin conflictiva sobre la potencial coloracin de plumas amarillas basadas en melanina y la presencia de caroteniodes en el plumaje marrn de ciertas especies. En este estudio, usamos cromatografa lquida de alto rendimiento para analizar los tipos y cantidades de carotenoides y melaninas presentes en las plumas amarillas y marrones de cinco especies de aves: el azulejo Sialia sialis y la golondrina Hirundo rustica, los pinginos Aptenodytes patagonicus y Eudyptes chrysolophus y el plumn natal amarillo de la gallina domstica Gallus domesticus. En ninguna de estas especies detectamos pigmentos carotenoides en las plumas. A pesar de que los carotenoides han sido encontrados en el plumaje ventral de la golondrina Hirundo rustica rustica, nosotros en cambio encontramos altas concentraciones de eumelaninas y feomelaninas en H. r. erythrogaster y en azulejos que variaron entre individuos y regiones de plumaje. Creemos que hemos detectado una nueva forma de pigmento de plumaje que le da a las plumas de pinginos y pollos domsticos su apariencia amarilla. 
10.2307/1368653|The avian productivity of 51 locally breeding species in coastal grassland, coastal scrub, and mixed evergreen forest habitats was estimated from 11 years of standardized mist-netting data collected between 10 May and 17 August at Point Reyes Bird Observatory's Palomarin Field Station. A relationship between the number of young birds banded per 100 net hr and the amount of annual (winter) rainfall during the previous season was apparent for the 10 years 1976 to 1985: productivity was low (19 to 32% below the 10-year mean) in years of extremely low rainfall, increased to a maximum (21 to 39% above the 10-year mean) in years of average or slightly above average rainfall, and decreased substantially (20% below the 10-year mean) in years of very heavy rainfall. The number of young birds banded per 100 net hr in 1986, however, was 62.3% below the previous 10-year mean and fell well outside the above relationship. This high level of reproductive failure occurred in most of the 51 locally breeding species and was independent of migratory behavior, habitat choice, and nest location. It was not independent of foraging behavior, however, as swallows and woodpeckers, species that feed their young on insects produced in decomposer- or detritus-based food chains rather than in primary production-based food chains, showed no significant reduction in productivity. Timing of the decrease in young birds suggests that the onset of reproductive failure occurred in mid-May, well after the nesting season began. Such a large-scale reproductive failure of virtually an entire landbird community has not been reported before and no obvious weather factors appear to explain it. Preliminary data indicate that the reproductive failure was not confined to the vicinity of Palomarin or to central coastal California but rather extended over much of northern California even to the west slope of the Sierra Nevada. It is interesting, but perhaps only coincidental, that several circumstances of this phenomenon, including its timing, appear to coincide remarkably well with the passage of a radioactive "cloud" from the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident and associated rainfall.
10.2307/1368914|House Wren (Troglodytes aedon) nest-destroying behavior was studied by experimentally offering 38 wrens nests with eggs (or nestlings) throughout the nesting season. Individuals of both sexes pecked all six types of eggs presented, regardless of the nest type and location. House Wrens also attacked conspecific young. Older nestlings (nine days old) were less vulnerable than three-day-old young. Our results suggest that nest-destroying behavior is inherent in all adult House Wrens but is inhibited in mated males and breeding females. It is suggested that nest destruction may have evolved as an interference mechanism reducing intra- and interspecific competition.
10.2307/1368642|To explore age-class variation in Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) hunting success, three behavioral aspects of foraging (dive height, dive angle, and head orientation) were examined in detail. Adults had greater foraging success than birds in three younger age classes. Success improved linearly with age, but was generally lower than reported in previous studies. Both dive height and dive angle varied significantly as a function of age. Adult mean dive height was higher than that of juveniles and first-year birds, but did not differ from that of subadults. Adults, subadults, and juveniles relied more on steep dive angles and less on flat dive angles than first-year birds. Results indicated a significant positive correlation between dive height and dive angle, suggesting that refraction is important when birds are hunting prey that are relatively deep in the water. Pelicans appeared to minimize surface glare by orientating away from the sun while diving.
10.2307/1367033|During 1979, 19 Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) eggs were collected at two colonies in Idaho and analyzed for organochlorine residues. DDE was detected in all eggs, DDT in 63%, and DDD in 53%. Eggshell thickness was significantly and inversely correlated with concentrations of these pesticides, especially DDE. In the colonies studied, reproductive success was below the rate required to maintain current population levels. Females that laid eggs containing residues of DDE greater than 5 ppm had more eggs disappear or break, fewer eggs hatch, and significantly thinner eggshells than females less contaminated with DDE. DDE contamination appears to be the primary factor responsible for reproductive failures in Snowy Egrets nesting in Idaho. Circumstantial evidence suggests that Snowy Egrets are being exposed to high levels of DDE while they overwinter in Mexico.
10.2307/1367252|Male Bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) sing two variants of primary song, with the shorter beta variant being a derivative of the longer alpha variant. The beta song is sung most frequently during territory boundary disputes and at times of day and season when territory conflicts are most intense. The alpha song is sung most frequently during preterritorial displays, when unmated females are in the area, and during courtship. The proportion of song types given during courtship progressively shifts toward more alpha songs from day 1 to day 4 of the mating process. During circle flights, which are directed specifically toward females, alpha songs are given almost exclusively. Hence, the beta song apparently conveys a more aggressive message than the alpha song. Further analysis shows that length of song sequences (i.e., degree of fragmentation or compounding of songs) is associated with intensity of the signal. Analyses of the structural differences between the two song variants and the patterns of song fragmentation lead to several predictions regarding the meaning of particular song syllables. Present evidence indicates that the introductory notes convey information about individual identity, possibly species identity, and song type identity. The next whistled segment apparently conveys information that serves to attract the attention of females, while the long warbled syllables that comprise much of both song types convey primarily an aggressive signal. Several hypotheses regarding the evolution of multiple song types are discussed in light of the data for Bobolinks. The Beau Geste and status signalling hypotheses do not seem applicable to this species. The significance of aggressive behavior during courtship is also discussed.
10.2307/1367333|Between one and five eggs from each of 37 clutches (n = 88) of the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) were analyzed to determine the relative amounts of shell, yolk and albumen, and the levels of water, lipid, and nonlipid dry matter in these components. On average, the yolk made up 17.7% of fresh egg mass. The albumen contained 89.8% water; yolks contained 55.7% water and 29.9% lipid. Amounts of ash and concentrations of cations in the yolk and albumen are reported. The mass of the shell varied in direct proportion to fresh egg mass, the amount of albumen varied in proportion to the 1.1 power of egg mass, and the yolk in proportion to the square root of egg mass. Unlike the eggs of precocial species, however, both the yolk and lipid content of the egg were poorly correlated with egg mass (R<sup>2</sup>=0.22 and 0.14, respectively). A principal components analysis revealed that 90% of the variation in egg size and composition could be related to three factors roughly corresponding to egg size (51%), percent yolk (27%), and ratio of lipid to nonlipid dry matter in the yolk (14%). As in other passerines, between 50 and 80% of variation in most egg characteristics occurred among clutches rather than within clutches; composition of the yolk was least related to clutch. With respect to position in the laying sequence, only the percentage of water in the egg showed a significant trend, decreasing slightly from first to last. Because egg size is a poor predictor of yolk size, it may not necessarily provide a useful index to egg quality or be correlated with nestling growth and survival.
10.2307/1368076|Throughout 1 year we observed the behavioral ecology of Grey Eagle-Buzzards (Geranoaetus melanoleucus) in central Chile. The eagles' activity period was bimodal, with peaks in mid-morning and mid-afternoon. During the day they spent most of their time flying (except during winter), extensively soaring in thermal and wind updrafts, rarely using flapping flight. Eagles appeared to select specific physiographic features that favored the presence of updrafts, particularly north- and west-facing slopes and ridge tops. Use of these features apparently was unrelated to prey abundance or vegetative cover. Prey were primarily large-sized small mammals, and secondarily reptiles and birds. Although aggressive, eagles were attacked by a number of species of other raptors. Comparison of the behavioral ecology of eagles and of Nearctic buteonines demonstrated some marked differences, particularly in activity time and habitat use. These differences appear to be related to weather conditions prevailing in montane vs. lowland terrain.
10.2307/1369143|Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) parasitized 99 (24.4%) of 406 House Finch (Carpodacus mexicanus) nests observed at Barrie, Guelph, Orillia, and St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada, during the periods 1983-1985 and 1990-1993. Hatching success of cowbird eggs was 84.8%, but no cowbird was reared. Cowbird growth was severely retarded; nestlings required about twice as much time to accomplish the same amount of growth observed in nests of other hosts. Estimated final body mass of nestling cowbirds was about 22% lower than normal. Cowbird nestling survived on average only 3.2 days. Only one cowbird fledged but died within one day. Lack of cowbird survival in nests of the House Finch appears to be the result of an inappropriate diet. We conclude that nestling diet may be important in determining cowbird choice of host.
40072342|I tested the hypothesis that hypoxia in tree cavities causes the unusually short incubation periods characteristic of woodpeckers. I compared saturated O levels in ambient air to O levels in 13 unoccupied and 14 occupied nest cavities of the Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus). Oxygen in unoccupied cavities did not differ from ambient levels, whereas O in cavities with an incubating adult was 2.2% lower than in saturated air. However, the magnitude of the decrease (20.5% oxygen in occupied cavities compared to 21.0% O in saturated air) is small compared to variation in the partial pressure of O caused by altitude. This suggests that O depletion is not a major selective force on embryonic development times for birds nesting in tree cavities. Alternative hypotheses for short incubation periods of woodpeckers include sexual selection on females and sibling competition. /// Evalu la hiptesis de que la hipoxia en las cavidades de los rboles causa los perodos de incubacin inusualmente cortos caractersticos de los carpinteros. Compar niveles saturados de O en el aire ambiental con niveles de O en 13 cavidades desocupadas y 14 cavidades ocupadas por nidos de Colaptes auratus. El O en las cavidades desocupadas no difiri de los niveles ambientales, mientras que el O en las cavidades con un adulto incubando fue un 2.2% ms bajo que en el aire saturado. Sin embargo, la magnitud de la disminucin (20.5% de O en las cavidades ocupadas comparado con 21.0% de O en el aire saturado) es pequea comparada con la variacin en la presin parcial de O causada por la altitud. Esto sugiere que la falta de O no es una fuerza de seleccin importante sobre los tiempos de desarrollo del embrin de las aves que nidifican en cavidades de rboles. Las hiptesis alternativas sobre los perodos cortos de incubacin de los carpinteros incluyen la seleccin sexual en las hembras y la competencia entre hermanos.
10.2307/1368916|Temporal patterns in pre-fledgling mortality were examined in a coastal North Carolina Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) colony by checking nests weekly throughout two breeding seasons. Individuals experienced high weekly survival during incubation (>90%), but exhibited a dramatic drop in survival at two to three weeks after hatching. The mortality pattern was identical in both years of study and was characteristic of both early and late nesters. This mortality appeared related to food-stress and occurred when nestlings entered the steep phase of logistic growth. Survival data were also used to test O'Conner's brood reduction model. The model predicted that brood reduction should occur in the population and should be manifested as fratricide, rather than infanticide or suicide. Nestling behavior was in accordance with the prediction of the model in that sibling aggression was common, but parents appeared to feed whichever nestling begged most vigorously. The calculations suggested that this population barely exceeds the threshold for fratricide, an interesting result considering the facultative nature of brood reduction in Ospreys.
1370683| Birds that use carotenoids to color their feathers must ultimately obtain these pigments from the diet, but they are also capable of metabolically transforming dietary carotenoids into alternate forms that they use as plumage colorants. The genetic and enzymatic control mechanisms underlying carotenoid metabolism are poorly understood. We investigated carotenoid pigments present in the feathers of an aberrantly colored yellow Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) to determine how metabolic pathways may have been altered. Normal red cardinals display four primary keto-carotenoids in plumage that are endogenously derived from a series of common food carotenoids. We found that the yellow feathers of this mutant lacked all four of the typical red pigments, and instead contained a yellow dietary carotenoid (lutein) and three yellow metabolic derivatives (3-dehydrolutein and canary-xanthophylls A and B). Because yellow metabolites appear to be manufactured via a different metabolic process (dehydrogenation) than the usual red forms (oxidation at the C-4 or -4 positions), it seems that this genetic mutation did not broadly disrupt all metabolic activity, but specifically impaired only one class of metabolic reactions and its associated enzymes. /// Las aves que utilizan pigmentos carotenoides para dar color a sus plumas deben obtenerlos de la dieta, pero tambin son capaces de transformar metablicamente los carotenoides dietarios en formas alternativas que utilizan para colorear las plumas. Los mecanismos genticos y enzimticos de control involucrados en el metabolismo de los carotenoides no han sido bien establecidos. En este estudio investigamos los pigmentos carotenoides presentes en las plumas de un cardenal Cardinalis cardinalis con coloracin amarilla aberrante para determinar cmo se podran haber alterado las rutas metablicas. Los cardenales normales de color rojo despliegan cuatro keto-carotenoides primarios en el plumaje, los cuales son derivados endgenamente a partir de una serie de carotenoides comunes en la dieta. Encontramos que las plumas amarillas del mutante carecan de los cuatro pigmentos rojos tpicos, y contenan en cambio un carotenoide dietario amarillo (lutena) y tres derivados metablicos amarillos (3-dehidro lutena y xantofilas de canario A y B). Debido a que los metabolitos amarillos parecen ser fabricados mediante un proceso metablico diferente al de las formas rojas usuales (deshidrogenacin y oxidacin en las posiciones C-4 o -4, respectivamente), parece que esta mutacin gentica no alter ampliamente toda la actividad metablica. En cambio, parece haber inhabilitado slo una clase de reacciones metablicas y sus enzimas asociadas. 
10.2307/1369329| I studied reproduction of the Barn Owl (Tyto alba) in irrigated farmlands of northern Utah for 16 years documenting 391 nesting attempts. Most Barn Owls began nesting at one year of age and produced one brood per year. The owls rarely produced second broods or replaced failed first clutches. Complete first clutches averaged 7.17 eggs (n = 275). Replacement (x = 5.81, n = 16) and second clutches (x = 5.79, n = 19) were significantly smaller than first clutches, but first (x = 5.45) and second broods (x = 5.37) did not differ significantly. Replacement broods (x 3.83) were significantly smaller than first. Of all nesting attempts 88% produced full clutches and 71% yielded at least one fledgling. Successful nests on average produced 5.09 fledglings per first brood, 4.94 per second brood, and 3.60 per replacement brood. Second attempts were more likely to produce fledglings than either first or replacement attempts. Sixty-three percent of all eggs laid hatched and 55% produced fledglings. Of eggs that hatched, 87% survived to fledging. March 13 was the mean date for initiation of egg laying and latest second clutches hatched on 4 October. Persistent snow cover and low winter temperatures significantly delayed onset of egg laying and reduced the number and success of breeding attempts. Clutch size, however, did not differ significantly among years or among nest sites. 
10.2307/1367023|Records of the Nicaraguan Seed-Finch (Oryzoborus nuttingi) indicate that it is fairly continuously distributed over the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica, linking its previously known ranges in Nicaragua and Panama. The species has apparently expanded its range owing to the greater availability of its preferred marshy habitat, following the clearing of lowland forests. The nest, newly described, is a flimsy cup of grass situated in sedges or a low shrub. The eggs and vocalizations, also described, resemble those of O. funereus. Measurements of a series of specimens of O. nuttingi indicate that loftini should not be recognized as a valid subspecies without better evidence. The Central American O. nuttingi is closely related to the South American O. maximiliani, and they are best considered as the component allospecies of a superspecies. Since the former is no longer limited to Nicaragua, a more appropriate English vernacular name might be "Pink-billed Seed-Finch."
10.2307/1369262|I examined vegetation characteristics at nests of Wilson's Phalaropes (Phalaropus tricolor) to evaluate the null hypothesis that nest success was independent of concealment from predators. During 1983 and 1984, 28% (n = 25) and 18% (n = 60) of phalarope clutches successfully hatched chicks; both years predation caused most (60%) clutch failures. No relationship obtained between nesting success and vegetation density, height and heterogeneity, but plant communities differed between successful and depredated nests in 1983. These results do not support the hypothesis that clutch concealment deters predation; rather they suggest that other, perhaps multiple, factors should be examined as forces shaping nest-site selection of ground-nesting birds.
4122549|Winter diets of Surf (Melanitta perspicillata) and White-winged Scoters (M. fusca) are composed primarily of bivalves. During spawning of Pacific herring (Clupea pallasi) in early spring, scoters shift their diets to herring eggs. Using radio-telemetry, we contrasted scoter foraging behaviors between winter and herring spawning periods. Scoters increased their dive durations during herring spawning, likely to maximize the amount of roe consumed per dive; in winter, dives were typically terminated upon clam capture. Scoters spent approximately 50% less time foraging (
10.2307/1370305| Some 20 species of antibirds occur in lowland Caribbean rainforest in southeast Nicaragua where they form five distinct guilds on the basis of habitat preferences, foraging ecology, and foraging behavior. Three guilds are habitat-based, in Edge, Forest, and Gaps within forest; two are behaviorally distinct, with species of army ant followers and those foraging within mixed-species flocks. The guilds each contain 3-6 antbird species. Within guilds, species are segregated by body size differences between member species, and in several guilds are evenly spaced on a logarithmic scale of body mass. Among guilds, the factors by which adjacent body sizes differ vary between 1.25 and 1.75. Body size differences may be related to differences in preferred prey sizes, but are influenced also by the density of the vegetation in which each species customarily forages. /// Unas 20 especies de aves hormigueras viven en el bosque tropical perennifolio, sureste de Nicaragua, donde se forman cinquo gremios distinctos estribando en preferencias de habitat, ecologia y comportamiento de las costumbres de alimentacion. Las diferencias entre las varias especies son cuantificadas por caractaristicas del ambiente vegetal y por la ecologia y comportamiento de la alimentacin, y usados para definir cinco grupos o gremios ("guilds"). Tres gremios se designan por las relaciones de habitat: edge (margen), forest (selva), y gaps (aberturas adentro la selva); dos mas por comportamiento, partidarios de army ants (hormigas armadas) y mixed-species flocks (forrejando en bandadas de especies mexcladas). Estos gremios contenien 3-6 especies hormiguera. Dentro de grupos hay diferencias regulares en peso de cuerpo entre las especies; diferencias que igualmente existen entre los gremios diferentes, con raznes medios de 1.25 a 1.75 en peso de cuerpo. Las diferencias en el tamao de especies individuales probablemente estan relacinadas con las diferencias entre los tamaos de las presas preferidas, pero quizas son influenciadas por la densidad de la vegetacion en donde se alimentan. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110109|The Rock Sandpiper (
10.1525/cond.2013.110151|Using markrecapture, we estimated the age at first return and survival of juveniles of the Sooty Shearwater (
1369834| We analyzed data from two independent studies of foraging Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) in Prince William Sound, Alaska. Our purpose was to determine if Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) hindered prey capture by kittiwakes. At tightly aggregated feeding flocks, gulls remained on the water directly over the prey and foraged by making brief hop-plunges or surface-seizes. Kittiwakes, in contrast, fed by diving from the air into open spots in the flock or around its periphery. Data from both studies indicated that kittiwakes made fewer feeding attempts in flocks that had greater numbers of gills. However, kittiwake success rate per feeding attempt did not change as the number of gulls increased. Kittiwakes were more likely to avoid flocks that had a greater number of Glaucous-winged Gulls. Gulls successfully pirated less than 1% of fish captured by kittiwakes. Our findings suggest that passive interference may be costly for smaller birds that feed in multispecies feeding flocks. /// Analizamos datos de dos estudios independientes sobre forrajeo de Rissa tridactyla en Prince William Sound, Alaska. El propsito de nuestro estudio fue determinar si Larus glaucescens impeda la captura de presas por parte de R. tridactyla. Las gaviotas permanecieron sobre el ague directamente sobre sus presas en bandadas de forrajeo altamente agregadas y forrajearon realizando zambullidos breves o capturas de superficie. En contraste R. tridactyla forraje lanzndose desde el aire a espacios abiertos entre la bandada o en su periferia. Los datos de ambos estudios indicaron que R. tridactyla realiz menos intentos de forrajeo en bandadas que tenan mayor nmero de gaviotas. Sin embargo, la tasa de xito por intento de forrajeo no cambi con el aumento del nmero de gaviotas. R. tridactyla present una mayor probabilidad de evitar las bandadas con mayor nmero de gaviotas. Las gaviotas cleptoparasitaron exitosamente menos del 1% de los peces capturados por R. tridactyla. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la interferencia pasiva puede ser costosa para las aves ms pequeas que forrajean en bandadas multiespecficas. 
10.2307/1369316|We studied the spring migration of Pacific Loons (Gavia pacifica) from a coastal promontory and during shipboard transects in the Southern California Bight. The coastline in the northern part of the bight acts as a leading line that diverts northbound migrants toward the west. We detected no effect of the onshore wind component on migration traffic rates along the coast and rejected the hypothesis that nearshore flights resulted from wind drift. Migration of Pacific Loons proceeded in headwinds up to 13 m/sec, but traffic rates decreased with increasing headwind strength, suggesting that loons avoided flying in the most energetically unfavorable conditions. The timing of peak migratory flights varied from mid-April to early May in different years, perhaps reflecting constraints imposed by the availability of food in wintering areas, at premigratory staging sites, and/or at en-route stopover sites. At sea, migrant loons were concentrated in cool waters in the northern part of the bight, and observations of loons on the water were associated with high densities of zooplankton at nearby sampling stations. We hypothesize that many northbound loons stop in the northern bight to feed on macrofauna attracted by concentrations of zooplankton near the frontal boundaries of upwelling plumes. Such stopovers should allow migrant loons to replenish energy stores efficiently and to resume northward migration rapidly.
10.2307/1369653|We measured nest site selection and productivity of suburban-nesting Red-shouldered Hawks (Buteo lineatus) in southwestern Ohio and rural-nesting Red-shouldered Hawks in south-central Ohio. At both the suburban and the rural locations, nest sites had greater canopy height and overall tree basal area than paired random plots, and were located closer to water than were paired random plots. Nest trees also had greater diameter and height than random plot-center trees. Reproductive rates at suburban and rural sites were similar, averaging 2.6-3.1 nestlings per successful nest. Results indicated that suburban-nesting Red-shouldered Hawks were very similar to rural-nesting hawks in both nest site selection and productivity, suggesting that Red-shouldered Hawks were habituated to their suburban environs.
10.2307/1366810|Observations of the reproductive behavior and productivity of the South American Pallid Falcon, historically known as Kleinschmidt's Falcon (Falco kreyenborgi), confirm and amplify findings by Ellis and Peres G. (1983), that F. kreyenborgi may be described in terms of a dichromatic polymorph of F. peregrinus cassini, the South American subspecies of Peregrine Falcon. The pallid form occurs relatively frequently in the eastern zone of the southern tip of South America, where it is locally sympatric with F. p. cassini. This study describes mating behavior of 17 pairs and productivity of 15 pairs of falcons in this region of southern Patagonia. In five of these pairs, both the adults were phenotypically "normal" F. peregrinus; in two pairs, both were pallid; and in ten pairs, the adults were mixed: a normal adult peregrine mated with a pallid individual. Phenotypic expression of the pallid trait from productivity data indicates that the genetic basis for pallidism is recessive to the normal genotype. My analysis of gene frequencies, based on this assumption, demonstrates a high frequency of heterozygosity among the local breeding population, which is characteristic of a clinal variation maintained by either low gene flow or selection for the pallid genotype.
40306205|Clark's Nutcrackers (
10.2307/1368878|A series of baits was used to study the scavenging efficiency of Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) in tropical forest. These birds were found to rely almost entirely on their sense of smell to locate food. They could not easily find animals that had died recently, were efficient at locating one-day-old carcasses, and tended to reject meat that was rotten. Estimates of the amount of food taken from the baits showed that Turkey and Black vultures removed about 90% of the provided food supply.
40072381|The San Pedro River in southeastern Arizona is one of the last free-flowing rivers in the southwestern United States that maintains significant stretches of perennial water. While critical for birds, this river is vulnerable to salt cedar (tamarisk,
10.2307/1366989|Originally proposed by J. T. Emlen in 1977, plot mapping combines the accuracy of territory or "spot" mapping with the efficiency of transect or plot count techniques. This method can be used to estimate densities of animal species that advertise their presence on mutually-exclusive territories. Plot mapping can be used with transects or sample plots, with fixed boundaries or species-specific variable boundaries. It is especially well-suited for censusing breeding songbird communities. For each species, a probability of detection is estimated and subsequently used to adjust song counts to territories present. The variance of the density estimate provides a measure of its precision.
4122542| In some species, expression of territorial aggression is accompanied by a rise in testosterone secretion, but in others aggressive behavior is expressed while testosterone levels remain unchanged. Corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG) binds both corticosterone and testosterone in avian plasma. Thus, increasing corticosterone may result in fluctuations in unbound ("free") testosterone; this could result in greater biological activity of testosterone without an increase in testosterone secretion. We investigated whether such plasma interactions of testosterone, corticosterone, and CBG might result in alterations of free testosterone in male Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha). We conducted simulated territorial intrusions during incubation and compared total and free testosterone of males captured immediately following a simulated territorial intrusion with that of males captured passively. All experimental males showed aggressive behavior, but apparently did not modulate total or free testosterone relative to controls. /// En algunas especies, la expresin de las agresiones territoriales es acompaada por un incremento en la secrecin de testosterona, pero en otras especies que expresan agresividad territorial los niveles de testosterona se mantienen constantes. La globulina ligadora de corticosteroides (CBG) se liga tanto a la corticosterona como a la testosterona en el plasma de las aves. As, el aumento de corticosterona puede resultar en testosterona no ligada ("libre"). Esto puede resultar en una mayor actividad biolgica de la testosterona sin un aumento en la secrecin de la testosterona. Investigamos si estas interacciones plasmticas de la testosterona, corticosterona y la CBG pueden resultar en alteraciones de la testosterona libre en machos de Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha. Realizamos intrusiones territoriales simuladas durante la incubacin y comparamos la testosterona total y libre de machos capturados inmediatamente despus de la intrusin territorial simulada con la de machos capturados pasivamente. Todos los machos experimentales mostraron comportamiento agresivo, pero aparentemente no modularon la testosterona total o libre con relacin a los machos control. 
1370635| Most of the Great Skuas (Stercorarius skua) breeding at Hermaness, Shetland, exhibit dietary specialization: a small proportion feed almost exclusively upon seabird prey, a small proportion feed as generalists, and most feed on fishery discards. We investigated the foraging dynamics, reproductive performance, and survival of Great Skuas that specialized in depredating other seabirds compared with those feeding predominantly on fish. Around half of the specialist bird predators defended combined breeding and feeding territories that included a section of seabird colony; the remainder of the predatory skuas foraged away from breeding territories. Specialist bird predators retained their feeding habit and, if present, feeding territory, across years. Time budgets revealed that specialist bird predators spent less time foraging than skuas feeding predominantly on fish. Results of radio-telemetry indicated that bird-specialist skuas have smaller home ranges than other birds. In a comparison of reproductive performance, specialist bird predators consistently hatched earlier among years. They also showed larger clutch volumes and improved chick condition, but these were subject to annual variations. Hatching success and fledging success for specialist bird predators and specialist fish predators were similar. Specialist bird predators showed similar annual survival compared with fish-feeders over the same period. Specializing as a bird predator may be limited to the best birds in the population, but their poorer than predicted breeding success reveals the need for further study into the relationship between diet and reproductive success in this species. /// La mayora de los individuos de Stercorarius skua que se reproducen en Hermaness, Shetland, presentan una especializacin de la dieta: una proporcin pequea se alimenta casi exclusivamente de aves marinas, otra proporcin pequea generalista y la mayora se alimenta de desechos de pesqueros. Se investig la dinmica de forrajeo, el desempeo reproductivo y la supervivencia de individuos de S. skua que se especializan en la depredacin de otras aves marinas comparndolo con otros que se alimentan predominantemente de pescado. Cerca de la mitad de los depredadores especialistas de aves defienden de manera combinada territorios para reproduccin y para alimentacin que incluyen una seccin de la colonia: el resto de los individuos depredadores forrajean lejos de los territorios de reproduccin. Los aves depredadores especialistas de aves mantienen sus hbitos alimenticios y, en caso de presentarse, el territorio para alimentacin, a travs de los aos. Los presupuestos de tiempo revelaron que los depredadores especialistas de aves pasan menos tiempo forrajeando que los que se alimentan predominantemente de pescado. Los resultados de radio-telemetra indicaron que las aves especialistas tienen rangos de hogar menores que otras aves. En una comparacin de desempeo reproductivo, los depredadores especialistas de aves presentaron fechas de eclosin ms tempranas, las cuales se repitieron a traves de los aos. As mismo, mostraron volmenes de puesta ms grandes y mejor condicin de las cras, pero stos estuvieron sujetos a variaciones anuales. El xito de eclosin y el xito de emplumamiento de los depredadores especialistas de aves y de los depredadores especialistas de pescado fueron similares. Los depredadores especialistas de aves mostraron una supervivencia anual similar a la de los que se alimentan de pescado durante el mismo periodo. La especializacin como depredador de aves puede limitarse a las mejores aves de la poblacin, pero el bajo xito reproductivo encontrado, contrario a lo predicho, revela la necesidad de estudios adicionales sobre la relacin entre la dieta y el xito reproductivo en esta especie. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120064|Semelparous woody bamboos flower fairly synchronously and in clocklike fashion after many years, providing abundant and nutritious seeds. However, this resource is ephemeral, localized, and unpredictable from the perspective of birds that feed on those seeds. Birds specializing on bamboo seeds track this food source and are nomadic. We recorded Temmincks Seedeater (
10.1525/cond.2009.080114|Over 3 years we observed the breeding behavior of four groups of the Sichuan Jay (
10.2307/1368344| We monitored bird communities of true fir forests at 51 study sites in the western Sierra Nevada during the breeding seasons of 1983, 1984, and 1985. The summer of 1983 followed the El Nio winter of 1982-1983, with the greatest snowfall on record. The summers of 1984 and 1985 followed winters with moderate snowfalls. Bird species richness (BSR) and average total count (ATC) increased linearly from 1983 to 1985. The relative abundances of 12 common species increased from 1983 to 1985; abundances of two common species did not differ among years. Twenty-eight uncommon species increased and four decreased in numbers from 1983 to 1985. Bird response patterns differed between lower-elevation white fir (Abies concolor) forests and upper-elevation red fir (A. magnifica) forests. Bird numbers were similar in both habitats in 1983 but greater in white fir than in red fir in 1984 and 1985. Although abundances of the common species increased in both habitats in both years, those of uncommon species did not increase substantially in red fir until 1985. We suggest that bird numbers were depressed in 1983, but not atypically so for true fir forests. Numbers of permanent residents are often limited by frequent but unpredictable winters with excessive snowfall (Beedy 1982, Granholm 1982, Raphael and White 1984). Numbers of migrants, as in the case of this study, are sometimes affected similarly. White fir and lower-elevation forests may harbor "source" populations for red fir "sink" populations during periods of resource stress. 
1370714| The sex-ratio adjustment hypothesis predicts that females should modify offspring sex ratios according to the potential reproductive success of their offspring under existing ecological conditions. We tested this hypothesis in the polygynous, sexually size-monomorphic House Wren (Troglodytes aedon). Typically, nestling House Wrens that hatch in the first half of the three-month breeding season are heavier and have higher rates of survival and recruitment than those that hatch in the second half of the season. Therefore, the sex-ratio adjustment hypothesis predicts that early broods should be more male biased than later broods, because males in good condition have higher reproductive value than females. As conditions deteriorate, broods should become less male biased because female offspring have higher reproductive value than males in poor condition. Contrary to expectation, there was no seasonal decrease in offspring condition, and the sex ratio of broods was consistently male biased throughout the breeding season. We conclude that the results are consistent with the sex-ratio adjustment hypothesis, because in the year of this study female House Wrens were able to produce offspring in similar (and presumably good) condition throughout the breeding season; therefore, they continued to produce broods that were significantly male biased. /// La hiptesis sobre el ajuste del cociente de sexos predice que las hembras deberan modificar el cociente de sexos de la prole en relacin al xito potencial reproductivo de la prole bajo las condiciones ecolgicas existentes. Evaluamos esta hiptesis en Troglodytes aedon, especie polgina y sin diferencias sexuales de tamao. Tpicamente, los pichones de T. aedon que eclosionan en la primera mitad de la estacin reproductiva (que dura tres meses) son ms pesados y presentan tasas de supervivencia y reclutamiento ms altas que aquellos que eclosionan en la segunda mitad de la estacin. De este modo, la hiptesis sobre el ajuste del cociente de sexos predice que las camadas tempranas deberan estar ms sesgadas hacia los machos que las camadas ms tardas, ya que los machos en buena condicin tienen un valor reproductivo ms alto que las hembras. A medida que la condicin se deteriora, las camadas deberan estar menos sesgadas hacia los machos debido a que los vstagos de sexo femenino tienen un valor reproductivo ms alto que los machos en mala condicin. Contrariamente a lo esperado, no hubo una disminucin estacional en la condicin de la prole, y el cociente de sexos de las camadas estuvo consistentemente sesgado hacia los machos a lo largo de la estacin de cra. Concluimos que los resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis sobre el ajuste del cociente de sexos, ya que durante el ao de este estudio las hembras de T. aedon fueron capaces de producir proles en condiciones similares (y presumiblemente buenas) a lo largo de la estacin de cra. De este modo, las hembras continuaron produciendo camadas que estuvieron significativamente sesgadas hacia los machos. 
4500998| I used an information-theoretic approach to determine support for hypotheses concerning the effects of edge and temporal factors on Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) nest survival on Fort Hood Military Reservation, Texas, during 2003-2006. I predicted that nest survival would be greater earlier in the breeding season than later in the breeding season, in areas with less forest edge than in areas with more forest edge, and during the laying and incubation stages than during the nestling stage. I used the logistic-exposure method to model nest survival as a function of the explanatory variables and to produce model-based estimates of daily and period survival. The overall daily survival rate was 0.96 (95% CI: 0.94, 0.97) and overall period survival was 0.34 (95% CI: 0.23, 0.46). Forest edge density had the strongest effect on nest survival. Nest survival decreased as forest edge density increased. Period survival tended to decrease as the breeding season progressed, but the 95% confidence intervals of the model-averaged parameter estimates overlapped. These results demonstrate that effective conservation strategies designed to provide high-quality breeding habitat for this endangered species should include measures to reduce predation by edge-adapted predators. /// Utilic un enfoque de la teora de la informacin para determinar el apoyo a las hiptesis referentes a los efectos de borde y del tiempo en la supervivencia de los nidos de Dendroica chrysoparia en la Reserva Militar Fort Hood, Texas, entre 2003 y 2006. Predije que la supervivencia de los nido sera mayor al inicio que hacia finales de la estacin reproductiva, en las reas con menos efecto de borde que en las reas con ms borde de bosque y durante las etapas de puesta e incubacin que durante la etapa de cra de los pichones. Utilic el mtodo de exposicin logstica para modelar la supervivencia de los nidos como funcin de las variables explicativas y para producir estimados basados en los modelos de supervivencia diaria y del perodo. La tasa de supervivencia general diaria fue de 0.96 (95% IC: 0.94, 0.97) y la supervivencia general del perodo fue de 0.34 (95% IC: 0.23, 0.46). La densidad del borde del bosque tuvo el efecto ms fuerte sobre la supervivencia de los nidos. La supervivencia de los nidos disminuy a medida que la densidad del borde del bosque aument. La supervivencia del perodo tendi a disminuir a medida que avanz la estacin reproductiva, pero los intervalos de confianza del 95% de los parmetros estimados promediados entre modelos se superpusieron. Estos resultados demuestran que las estrategias efectivas de conservacin diseadas para brindar hbitat de cra de alta calidad para esta especie en peligro deberan incluir medidas para reducir la depredacin por parte de los depredadores adaptados al borde. 
10.2307/1369800|We tested the hypothesis that bill proportions at hatching are a byproduct of overall skull proportions which are a result of constraints of brain growth. We measured brain and eye weights, eye diameter, and some skull dimensions in domestic geese (Anser anser f. domestica) varying in age between embryonic day 7.5 and 29.5 (hatching), and in five adult geese. With respect to age, weights show divergent growth patterns resulting in complex allometry for eye but simple allometry for brain weight. This differs from the situation in Galliforms and probably reflects the high cerebralization of Anseriforms. Length measurements show similar growth patterns. Cranial length realizes a larger part of overall growth during incubation when compared to facial length. Cranial width is similar to eye diameter and brain weight. Bill width exhibits a unique growth pattern. Bill proportions are similar to the whole head but differ from those of the bony brain capsule. Therefore, although all craniometric measurements strongly correlate to brain size, brain growth probably influences growth of the cranial but not of the facial part of the skull.
10.2307/1367137|Flying Steamer-Ducks (Tachyeres patachonicus) breeding on small, snow-melt lakes in the Andean foothills show intensive intra- and interspecific aggression toward a wide variety of species not closely related taxonomically, or similar in appearance or food habits. When establishing their territories, newly formed pairs frequently fight and perform mutual vocal and visual displays. We here report first-hand observations and post-mortem evidence of their killing other ducks during this period. Adaptations for intraspecific fighting in this species may have largely eliminated the risk of injury when attacking birds of other species, thereby increasing the probability of benefitting from wider interspecific aggression.
10.2307/1367757|I evaluated the composition of 97 fresh eggs and 43 one-day-old chicks of the American Coot (Fulica americana) to determine if the constituents of eggs or chicks show allometry. Heavier eggs contained proportionately less albumen but proportionately more yolk, and consequently had a higher energy density than lighter eggs. Albumen weight varied more among than within clutches, presumably due to variation in the qualities of coot territories during nesting. Within clutches, the lipid content of eggs declined with laying sequence, but albumen weights remained constant. Moreover, newly hatched chicks contained proportionately more lean dry material if they hatched from large eggs than if they hatched from small ones. These patterns of variation appear to increase the disparities in size of these asynchronously hatching young, and thus result in differential survival probabilities among siblings.
10.2307/1367952|We studied the pattern of post-laying visitation of nest sites by non-nesting females in three species of cavity-nesting ducks, the Common and Barrow's goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula and B. islandica) and the Bufflehead (B. albeola). Nests were visited from mid-June to mid-July when most nesting females either had hatched their clutches or were finishing incubation. Females often visited more than one nest site and each nest site could be visited by several birds. Observations of marked individuals and body measurements of trapped birds show that most visiting females were either yearlings or failed breeders. These females always visited nest sites in intra- or inter-specific groups, and exhibited typical vocalizations and flight patterns. We propose that these females were "prospecting" for nest sites in preparation for the next breeding season. We could not find any detrimental effects of prospecting on incubating females. We also discuss the evolutionary significance of prospecting behavior and its relationship to delayed maturity and nest-site availability for both cavity- and ground-nesting North American ducks.
10.2307/1369473|Female Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) are unusual among temperate zone songbirds in that they possess a distinctive and loud call, known as "chatter" and consisting of a series of brief chevron-shaped syllables. Unlike the high-amplitude vocalizations commonly given by males, which show extreme macrogeographic and microgeographic (i.e., dialect) variation, chatter shows no apparent qualitative variation throughout North America. Quantitative variation in frequency and temporal parameters was assessed by measuring 40 variables on chatter calls given by 45 females from the three recognized cowbird subspecies. Univariate and multivariate (principle components) analyses showed only minor macrogeographic differences among the subspecies and gave no indication that local microgeographic variation or dialects exist. Despite the near lack of spatial variation, analysis of variance demonstrated that nearly every variable shows significant individual variation within each subspecies. This is probably sufficient to allow cowbirds to recognize individual females. Chatter is used in diverse contexts and in communication with both males and other females. Its quantitative features may vary according to context, but this was not investigated because all calls in this study were given in the same context.
1370754| Cooperative breeding is unusual in seabirds, but recorded in varying proportions in Brown Skuas (Stercorarius [= Catharacta] lonnbergi). With no evidence for kin selection or delayed dispersal, nor for any reproductive advantage, the reason for its occurrence in skuas is uncertain. This study describes the incidence, composition, and breeding characteristics of trios of Brown Skuas at Bird Island, South Georgia. Trios were recorded in nine seasons, including a polygynous and a polyandrous trio found in both 2000-2001 and 2001-2002. In some years, birds hatched three chicks from supranormal clutches, which is exceptional in skuas and jaegers, yet their overall performance was no better than monogamous pairs. I suggest that compared with closely related taxa, Brown Skuas have a slight behavioral or genetic predisposition that facilitates cooperative breeding. Cooperation conveys a minor advantage in territory acquisition, but none in terms of reproductive success (particularly for polygynous groups), and consequently has not proliferated at most colonies. /// La crianza cooperativa es inusual en aves marinas pero se ha reportado en diversa medida en Stercorarius [= Catharacta] lonnbergi. Sin ninguna evidencia sobre seleccin de parentesco o dispersin retrasada, ni ninguna ventaja reproductiva, se desconoce por qu sucede en los pgalos. Este estudio describe la incidencia, composicin y caractersticas de cra de tros de S. lonnbergi en Bird Island, Georgia del Sur. Varios tros fueron monitoreados durante nueve estaciones, incluyendo un tro polignico y otro polindrico encontrados en 2000-2001 y 2001-2002, respectivamente. En algunos aos las aves lograron la eclosin de tres polluelos de nidadas ms grandes de lo normal, lo cual es excepcional en pgalos, pero su xito no fue mayor que el de parejas mongamas. Se sugiere que en comparacin con taxa estrechamente relacionados, S. lonnbergi tiene una ligera predisposicin de tipo comportamental o gentica que facilita la cra cooperativa. La cooperacin conlleva una cierta ventaja en la adquisicin de territorios, pero ninguna ventaja en trminos de xito reproductivo (en particular para grupos polignicos), y en consecuencia no ha proliferado en la mayora de las colonias. 
10.2307/1368249|The number and distribution of sperm in the sperm storage tubules (SSTs) in the uterovaginal junction (UVJ) of the Zebra Finch (Poephila guttata) oviduct was examined under three copulation patterns: single insemination, multiple insemination by the same male, and multiple insemination by two males in sequence. The proportion of SSTs containing sperm varied markedly between birds (range = 22-99%), and was positively correlated with the mean number of sperm per SST. All SSTs were apparently 'active' and capable of storing sperm. Multiply mated females had higher sperm loads than those mated once, with one exception. The maximum number of sperm in the UVJ of a single bird was 62,000; the minimum, 540. Within birds, sperm were distributed nonrandomly between SSTs. In all birds most sperm were located at the distal end of SSTs in a single clump. There was no evidence that sperm from separate ejaculates from either the same or different males remained stratified within SSTs. The degree of stratification was low and was determined by the number of sperm in the UVJ. It seems unlikely that stratification of sperm within SSTs accounts for last male sperm precedence in the Zebra Finch.
10.2307/1366884|Foraging habits and relative abundances of 12 birds comprising the insect-gleaning guild in a Sierran mixed-conifer forest were studied during two breeding seasons to determine: (1) foraging habitat preferences, (2) the extent to which species differ in their use of various components of the foraging niche, (3) patterns of relative abundance vs. niche breadth, and (4) differences between resident and migrant species. Comparisons of proportional availability and bird use of foliage height classes and tree species showed that tree species and, to a lesser extent, heights were used selectively by the guild. Incense-cedar (Calocedrus decurrens) was consistently avoided by all species; other tree species were generally used in a complementary manner by different birds. Of four measured components of foraging niche, the use of foraging site (consisting of air or tree part) showed the greatest difference between species, followed by tree species, foraging techniques, and foraging height. We found no correlation between niche breadth and species abundance for all guild members; however, a significant positive correlation existed for the five resident species. Resident and migrant species groups showed few fundamental differences in foraging patterns, except that migrants tended to use a greater proportion of deciduous foliage than residents. Our results suggest that to provide for this guild, land managers should maintain natural levels of tree species diversity in the mixed-conifer forest type.
1370125| Most studies describing reproductive biology of an avian species provide some measure of annual reproductive success (ARS), frequently reported per nest or per egg. These measurements do not indicate the success of average females in the population. We report conventional measures of reproductive success along with ARS(b), number of broods successfully reared per female, and ARS(k), number of young successfully reared per female. We calculated ARS for four culvert-dwelling Cliff Swallow (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) colonies in east-central Texas from 1982 to 1985 (n = 1805 nests) and compared our calculations of ARS with those reported for other regions. We analyzed differences in number of fledglings per female to estimate variation in ARS among years and among culverts. In east-central Texas, ARS differed significantly among years and among culverts. We attributed variation in ARS to predation and abiotic factors. Consistent reporting of ARS would facilitate comparisons among populations or species over multiple scales. /// La mayora de los estudios que describen la biologa reproductiva de especies de aves proveen alguna medida de xito reproductivo anual (ERA), la cual, se reporta frecuentemente por nido o por huevo. Estas medidas no indican el xito reproductivo de las hembras promedio de la poblacin. Nostros reportamos medidas convencionales de xito reproductivo junto con el ERA(b), nmero de nidadas exitosamente criadas por hembra y ERA(k), nmero de juveniles exitosamente criados por hembra. Calculamos el ERA para cuatro colonias de Petrochelidon pyrrhonota que habitan puentes en el este-central de Texas desde 1982 hasta 1985 (n = 1805 nidos) y comparamos nuestros clculos de ERA con aquellos reportados para otras regiones. Analizamos las diferencias en el nmero de pichones por hembra para estimar variaciones en el ERA entre aos y entre puentes. En el este-central de Texas el ERA vari significativamente entre aos y entre puentes. Atribuimos la variacin en el ERA a depredacin y factores abiticos. El informe consistente de valores de ERA facilitara la comparacin entre poblaciones y especies a travs de mltiples escalas. 
1370359| We used DNA fingerprinting to estimate the frequency of extra-pair fertilization in the Flammulated Owl (Otus flammeolus), a socially monogamous species often found nesting in aggregations. We observed owls on 44 territories, 42 of which were located in aggregations of 3 to 10 territories with a mean nearest-neighbor distance of 539 m ( 160 m). We sampled a subset of these nests and compared band sharing and numbers of novel fragments among 17 social pairs and 37 offspring. Like other socially monogamous raptors, the Flammulated Owls we studied were genetically monogamous despite their relatively high breeding density. We suggest that the necessity of male parental care may be an important factor contributing to genetic monogamy in this species. /// Usamos huellas dactilares genticas (i.e., DNA fingerprinting) para estimar la frecuencia de fertilizacin extra-pareja en Otus flammeolus, una especie social mongama frecuentemente hallada nidificando en agregaciones. Observamos lechuzas en 44 territorios, 42 de los cuales se encontraron en agregaciones de entre 3 a 10 territorios, con una distancia media al territorio vecino ms cercano de 539 m ( 160 m). Muestreamos un subconjunto de los nidos localizados y comparamos las bandas compartidas y el nmero de fragmentos nuevos entre 17 pares sociales y 37 hijos. Al igual que otras rapaces sociales mongamas, los individuos de O. flammeolus que estudiamos fueron genticamente mongamos, a pesar de la relativamente alta densidad de individuos presentes en la poca de cra. Sugerimos que la necesidad de cuidado parental masculino puede ser un factor importante que contribuye a la monogamia gentica en esta especie. 
10.2307/1368241|The Wood Thrush Hylocichla mustelina (Muscicapidae: Turdinae) was studied on wintering grounds in the rainforest of southern Veracruz, Mexico, using mist netting, radiotelemetry, and field observation. Data were collected during three boreal winters (primarily November-March), and 46 individuals received transmitters. All sex and age classes were present, but difficulties in aging and sexing did not allow accurate determination of proportions. Telemetry showed two types of spatial use: "sedentary" (n = 18) and "wandering" (n = 21). Wanderers moved greater relative distances, had higher subcutaneous fat reserves, and seemed to incur greater mortality then sedentary birds. Analysis of eight specimens suggests that these two strategies are practiced by both sexes. Six birds that received transmitters remained unclassified due to insufficient data. One isolated bird showed intermediate behavior. Netting revealed a lack of sedentariness in part of the population throughout the winter. Movements were correlated with weather changes: cold, wet weather systems brought an influx of transients into the lowland forest site. Vocalization and playback data imply that during these weather systems aggression subsided. Home-range size of sedentary birds averaged 0.44 ha (0.12-1.03 ha). Some wanderers seemed to make movements of > 2 km. Wanderers were estimated to constitute approximately 50% of the population. Because wanderers apparently occupy habitats which undergo intolerable fluctuations in suitability and appear to suffer higher mortality, we tentatively accept Brown's (1969) critical density level 3 as a valid descriptor of wintering Wood Thrush densities in this region.
10.2307/1368604|Information on diving patterns was obtained for full-grown and juvenile Rock Shags (Phalacrocorax magellanicus) feeding in Port Stanley Harbour, Falkland Islands. Birds dived mainly in, or just outside, beds of giant kelp within 50 m of the shore where the water depth varied from 1-6 m. Mean dive and recovery times were 28 sec and 10 sec respectively, diving rate was 1.8 dives/min and birds spent 75% of the time underwater. Full-grown and juvenile birds both showed a highly significant positive relationship between dive time and water depth. Full-grown individuals also showed a significant increase in recovery time with increasing dive time, but for juveniles recovery time was independent of dive time. This resulted in full grown birds attaining a rate of diving that was 30-50% higher than that of juveniles in shallow water.
10.2307/1369256| We studied a small (63-pair) breeding colony of Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) at Culebra, Puerto Rico, in 1990 to identify disturbances caused by, and responses elicited by, aerial intruders and to determine the effect of predation on reproductive success of this threatened species. Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) were the most frequent cause of disturbance to nesting adults and captured at least two chicks. More intrusions occurred during the early stages of the breeding season and in the early morning than at other times. Defensive aggression in nesting Roseate Terns increased until the chick hatching stage, then decreased progressively through fledging. Neither the number of adults nor the number of chicks in the colony influenced aggressive responses against intruders as strongly as the nesting stage, suggesting that this population of Roseate Terns was most aggressive when the young were most vulnerable. Although our findings contrast with traditional parental investment theory, they are consistent with other studies of defensive aggression in seabirds. Most chick losses occurred during or shortly after hatching. Reproductive success of the colony was 0.25  0.50 chicks/pair and may have been low due to egg and chick mortality caused by predatory land crabs (Gecarcinus ruricola) that were abundant in the colony. Our findings suggest that although Roseate Terns responded appropriately to potential avian predators at this small Culebra colony, they were unable to successfully defend against certain ground predators (e.g., crabs). 
4151048| Many bird eggs lose 15 of their fresh mass before pipping, but individual species have been reported to lose 10-23. Most published estimates have been imprecise due to small sample sizes. Moreover, published estimates of within-or among-species variance components of mass loss are virtually unknown. We modeled the influence of nest type, clutch size, and egg size on daily mass loss of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), Common Goldeneye (Bucephala clangula), and Hooded Merganser (Lophodytes cucullatus) eggs and compared fractional mass loss among species. Mallard eggs in artificial nest cylinders lost more mass than those in ground nests, but were unaffected by nest initiation date. Average-sized eggs in Mallard ground nests, Mallard cylinder nests, and Common Goldeneye and Hooded Merganser nest boxes lost 7.9 g (15.2), 10.8 g (20.3), 10.3 g (15.5), and 9.2 g (15.8) of fresh mass, respectively. For all species, daily mass loss increased as incubation progressed and was affected by an interaction between egg size and incubation time, but was not influenced by clutch size. Depending on species, smallest eggs lost 1.0-4.0 more of their fresh mass than did the largest. Egg-mass variability was partitioned into years, nests within years, and eggs within nests and years. Variability was evenly distributed among the variance components in Mallard ground nests; however, among-eggs within-nest variance predominated in nest cylinders. In contrast, among-nests variation was the dominant source for goldeneyes and mergansers. Nest-site selection and egg size likely involve trade-offs among optimum egg-mass loss and nest and hatchling survival. /// Muchas aves pierden aproximadamente el 15% de su peso fresco antes de iniciar la ruptura del cascarn, pero se ha reportado que esto vara entre especies entre el 10 y el 23%. La mayora de los estimados publicados han sido imprecisos debido a tamaos de muestra pequeos. Ms an, los estimados de los componentes de la varianza dentro de especies o entre especies en la prdida de peso son virtualmente desconocidos. En este estudio modelamos la influencia del tipo de nido, el tamao de la nidada y tamao del huevo sobre la prdida diaria de peso en huevos de Anas platyrhynchos, Bucephala clangula y Lophodytes cucullatus, y comparamos la fraccin de peso perdida entre especies. Los huevos de A. platyrhynchos perdieron ms peso en nidos cilndricos artificiales que en nidos en el suelo, pero no fueron afectados por la fecha de iniciacin de la nidificacin. Huevos de tamao promedio de A. platyrhynchos puestos en nidos en el suelo y en cilindros, y huevos de B. clangula y L. cucullatus puestos en cajas de nidificacin, perdieron 7.9 g (15.2%), 10.8 g (20.3%), 10.3 g (15.5%) y 9.2 g (15.8%) de su peso fresco, respectivamente. Para todas las especies, la prdida diaria de peso se increment a medida que progres la incubacin y fue influenciada por una interactin entre el tamao de los huevos y el tiempo de incubatin, pero no por el tamao de la nidada. Dependiendo de la especie, los huevos ms pequeos perdieron entre 1.0 y 4.0% ms de su peso fresco que los huevos ms grandes. La variabilidad en el peso de los huevos estuvo repartida entre aos, entre nidos de un mismo ao y entre huevos de un mismo nido en cada ao. La variabilidad estuvo igualmente distribuida entre sus distintos componentes en los nidos de A. platyrhynchos del suelo. Sin embargo, la varianza entre huevos de un nido predomin en los nidos puestos en cilindros. En contraste, la variatin entre nidos fue la ms importante en B. clangula y L. cucullatus. La selectin de sitios de nidificacin y el tamao de los huevos probablemente involucran una solucin de compromiso entre los niveles ptimos de prdida de peso de los huevos y de supervivencia de los nidos y pichones. 
1370512| The mixed forests of interior British Columbia, Canada, support a rich community of cavity nesters, accounting for about one-third of forest vertebrate species. For 20 cavity-nesting bird and six cavity-nesting mammal species, representing excavators and secondary cavity nesters, we measured nest-cavity and nest-tree characteristics over 8 years in Interior Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forest ecosystems. There was overwhelming selection for quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides); 95% of 1692 cavity nests were in aspen, which comprised only 15% of trees available. The full range of live and dead trees were used, but we observed a strong preference for live trees with decay (45% of nests) or dead trees (45% of nests). A cluster analysis based on tree and cavity characteristics divided the community into five groups, including large- and medium-sized woodpeckers and a group comprised mostly of weak excavators. A fourth group included Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus), the most abundant excavator, and the larger secondary cavity nesters. The final group contained the most aggressive and most abundant secondary cavity nesters. European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris), the most aggressive secondary cavity nester, occupied a narrower nest niche (in less-decayed trees with smaller entrances) relative to their size. Less-competitive excavators and secondary cavity nesters occupied wider nest niches in terms of tree decay class and cavity size. We constructed a nest web for community structure that showed most cavity resource use flowed up the community through aspen trees and cavities excavated by Northern Flickers. Thus, aspen was the critical nesting tree and Northern Flickers were the keystone excavators in this community. /// Los bosques mixtos del interior de British Columbia, Canad, albergan una rica comunidad de animales que nidifican en cavidades, los cuales representan aproximadamente un tercio de las especies de vertebrados de bosque. En este estudio medimos caractersticas de las cavidades y de los rboles de nidificacin para 20 especies de aves y seis de mamferos que nidifican en cavidades (incluyendo especies excavadoras y las que utilizan cavidades secundariamente) a lo largo de ocho aos en ecosistemas de bosque interior de Pseudotsuga menziesii. Hubo una seleccin abrumadora de rboles de la especie Populus tremuloides; el 95% de 1692 cavidades de nidificacin se encontraron en rboles de esta especie, la cual comprenda slo el 15% de los rboles disponibles. Todo el espectro de rboles vivos y muertos fue utilizado, pero observamos una preferencia fuerte por rboles vivos con descomposicin (45% de los nidos) o rboles muertos (45% de los nidos). Un anlisis de agrupamiento basado en caractersticas de los rboles y las cavidades dividi la comunidad en cinco grupos, incluyendo carpinteros de tamao grande y mediano, y un grupo formado principalmente por excavadores dbiles. Un cuarto grupo incluy al carpintero Colaptes auratus (el excavador ms abundante) y a las especies de mayor tamao que nidifican en cavidades secundarias. El ltimo grupo incluy a las especies ms abundantes y agresivas que nidifican en cavidades secundarias. El estornino Sturnus vulgaris, la especie ms agresiva que nidifica en cavidades secundarias, ocup un nicho ms estrecho (rboles menos descompuestos con entradas ms pequeas) con relacin a su tamao. Los excavadores menos competitivos y los usuarios de cavidades secundarias ocuparon nichos de nidificacin ms amplios en trminos de la categora de descomposicin de los rboles y el tamao de la cavidad. Construimos una red de nidos para estudiar la estructura de la comunidad, la cual mostr que la mayor parte del uso de las cavidades como recurso fluye en la comunidad a travs de los rboles de P. tremuloides y las cavidades excavadas por C. auratus. Por lo tanto, P. tremuloides fue el rbol de nidificacin crtico y C. auratus fue la especie de excavador clave en esta comunidad. 
10.2307/1370314|We reconstructed a phylogeny for the seven species of doves in the genus Zenaida on the basis of a combined analysis of mitochondrial (ND2 and cytochrome b) and nuclear (fibrinogen intron 7) DNA sequences. This phylogeny, which is completely resolved, is well supported with all nodes showing greater than 50% bootstrap support. There was no significant conflict between trees based on each gene independently, although trees produced from fibrinogen intron 7 did not resolve relationships among five of the Zenaida species. The species status of Z. graysoni, as well as that of Z. meloda, is suggested based on their divergence from sister taxa (about 1% and 4%, respectively) and other differences. Zenaida can be divided into two major groups: Zenaida asiatica and Z. meloda versus Z. aurita, Z. galapagoensis, Z. auriculata, Z. graysoni, and Z. macroura.
10.2307/1369746|We studied the ecology of the endangered Hawaiian Hawk (Buteo solitarius) on the island of Hawaii for three breeding seasons. Their breeding strategy is a prime example of a K-selected species characteristic of many birds in tropical environments: clutch size was one and brood-rearing was among the longest reported for any diurnal raptor. Twenty-eight nests were found in a variety of native and exotic habitats. Incubation lasted 38 days, nestlings fledged after 59-63 days, and parents cared for fledglings for an average of 30.2 weeks, which was 2.5 to 10 times longer than similar-size temperate zone raptors. Males assisted females with incubation, but only females brooded young. Radio-tagged juveniles remained within 0.63 km of their nests for the first two months after fledging, after which dispersal distances expanded gradually. Avian (45%) and mammalian (54%) prey dominated the diet of nestlings. There was no evidence that avian malaria, introduced predators, or environmental contaminants were affecting their population. Based upon estimates of population size, the availability of suitable nesting habitat, and reproductive success, we suggest the species be considered for downlisting from endangered to threatened status.
40072354|Individuals are predicted to direct aid-giving behaviors preferentially to kin. In this study, we examined patterns of investment in nesting activities and compared them to genetic paternity across a three-year period (19941996) in cooperatively breeding Brown Jays (
10.2307/1368120|Pollens fed to adult and nestling hummingbirds were largely unaffected by passage through the digestive tracts. Adult lorikeets and Cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) responded similarly, but their nestlings were somewhat more able to digest pollens. Eucalyptus, Zauschneria, and Callistemon pollens were fed to nestling and adult Anna's Hummingbirds (Calypte anna) and adult Costa's Hummingbirds (C. costae). Eucalyptus and Prunus pollens were fed to adult Rainbow Lorikeets (Trichoglossus haematodus haematodus), adult and nestling Moluccan Lorikeets (T. h. moluccanus), and adult and nestling Cockatiels. Empty grains were considered to be digested. Hummingbirds digested less than 7% of all the pollens fed. Adult lorikeets digested less than 7% of the Eucalyptus pollen, and nestlings digested 24%. Adult Cockatiels digested 17% and nestlings 38% of the Eucalyptus pollen. Neither psittacine digested more than 4% of the Prunus pollen. It was concluded that the pollens did not furnish a significant source of energy or protein to the birds.
10.2307/1368529|I examined nest-site selection and reproductive success in Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) over a 4-year period on four nesting beaches in New Jersey. Nest site characteristics varied among the four nesting locations with respect to distance to dunes, water, nearest Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) nest, and percent shell cover. Compared with random points, Piping Plover nests were closer to dunes and vegetation, farther from water, closer to tern nests, farther from other Piping Plover nests, in spots with more shell cover. Reproductive success varied among colonies and years, but was generally higher at Brigantine than the other sites. Causes of nest failure included predation, human destruction, abandonment, and flooding. Plovers derived antipredator benefits from nesting near terns, and plover nesting in tern colonies often had higher success than those nesting outside of tern colonies.
10.2307/1370088|Scolopax carmesinae n. sp. is described from late Tertiary coastal outcrops of Punta Nati (NW Menorca, Balearic Islands). The species is known from one proximal fragment and one complete humerus. Estimated size is 10-20% smaller than living Eurasian Woodcock S. rusticola. Although osteological features in the humerus are not as specialized as in modern woodcocks, resembling in some aspects Gallinagininae, the general Scolopacinae conformation is fully recognizable. Differentiation of these two subfamilies must have taken place before the end of the Tertiary. Scolopax carmesinae n. sp. might have been the ancestor of S. rusticola. Except for the recent Nearctic form S. minor and the fossil S. hutchensi, remaining living and fossil species of Scolopax, which are all insular endemic forms, probably originated from sedentary, insular populations of S. rusticola.
40306209|Although females' mating with multiple males is widespread in socially monogamous species, its evolutionary significance is poorly understood. Tests of the hypothesis that socially monogamous females seek extra-pair copulations to increase the heterozygosity of their offspring have produced mixed results. Some of the inconsistency may be the result of technical limitations of the molecular analyses used. In a previous analysis using five microsatellite loci, we showed that in the House Wren (
10.2307/1368652|I studied chick growth and parental provisioning behavior of Black Guillemots (Cepphus grylle) in Hudson Bay, Canada. Chicks received benthic blennies, principally Stichaeus punctatus and Eumesogrammus praecisus, which parents caught in water less than 40 m deep close to the colony. Chick feeds were more frequent in the morning but feeding rates did not vary with age of young. Size of prey items increased during the nestling period, and energy intake peaked at about 780 kJ/day/chick when chicks were 25 days of age. Black Guillemots can maintain higher reproductive rates than offshore-feeding Alcidae because their short foraging range and the temporal and spatial predictability of their benthic prey permit higher rates of chick provisioning.
10.2307/1369646|For House Sparrows, Passer domesticus, it has been proposed that the size of a male's throat badge correlates with his success in avoiding cuckoldry as well as obtaining extra-pair copulations (EPCs), and that females gain indirect (genetic) benefits from EPCs with large-badged males. Alternatively, female House Sparrows may engage in EPCs as a guard against their social mate's infertility. We used multi-locus DNA fingerprinting to examine paternity and found that among 41 broods and 136 offspring, 20% of the offspring were attributable to extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs). Forty-one percent of the 34 males were cuckolded; however, large-badged males were as likely to be cuckolded as small-badged males. Moreover, we found no evidence that large-badged males were inherently superior to small-badged males in terms of survivorship. We compared the prevalence of unhatched eggs in broods with and without extra-pair offspring to determine whether EPFs are associated with hatching failure. Although we detected no association between hatch failure and EPFs, enhanced fertility remains a plausible EPC benefit to females, but experimental approaches may be required to evaluate its significance.
4151034| Iverson et al. (2004) used estimates of the homing rate for molting adult Harlequin Ducks {Histrionicus histrionicus) in Alaska to draw inferences about population structure. Homing rates, defined as one minus the ratio of birds recaptured elsewhere to those recaptured at the original banding site, were high (0.95-1.00) for males and females. Iverson et al. (2004) concluded that these high rates of homing are indicative of demographic independence among molting groups separated by small distances (tens to hundreds of kilometers) and that conservation efforts should recognize this fine-scale population structure. We reexamined their use of the homing rate, because their assumption of equal detection probability across a wide sampling area could have led to an upward bias in their estimates of site fidelity. As a result, we are hesitant to agree with their conclusion of high adult homing to molting areas and that moltsite fidelity is evidence for demographic independence. Our hesitancy stems from the fact that little is known about juvenile and adult movements within and among years, breeding area origins, and the variation of demographic parameters (e.g., survival and productivity) among molting groups. Furthermore, population genetic data of these molting groups suggest gene flow at both nuclear and mitochondrial loci. Such mixed messages between demographic (i.e., banding) and genetic data are increasingly common in ornithological studies and offer unique opportunities to reassess predictions and make more robust inferences about population structure across broad temporal and spatial scales. Thus, we stress that it is this broader scale perspective, which combines both demography and genetics, that biologists should seek to quantify and conservation efforts should seek to recognize. /// Iverson et al. (2004) usaron estimaciones de la tasa de retorno de individuos mudando a adultos de Histrionicus histrionicus en Alaska para inferir la estructura poblacional de esta especie. Las tasas de retorno, definidas como uno menos el cociente entre las ayes recapturadas en otro lado y aquellas recapturadas en el sitio original de anillado, fueron altas (0.95-1.00) tanto para machos como para hembras. Iverson et al. (2004) concluyeron que estas tasas de retorno indican que existe independencia demogrfica entre los grupos de muda que estn separados por cortas distancias (decenas a centenas de kilmetros) y que los esfuerzos de conservacin deben reconocer esta estructura poblacional a pequea escala. Re-examinamos el uso de la tasa de retorno debido a que la suposicin de los autores de que existe una misma probabilidad de deteccin a travs de una vasta area de muestreo podra haber generado un sesgo positivo en sus estimaciones de fidelidad de sitio. Como resultado de esto, cuestionamos sus conclusiones de que existe un elevado retorno de los adultos a las areas de muda y de que la fidelidad a los sitios de muda es evidencia de independencia demogrfica. Nuestra inseguridad surge del hecho de que se conoce poco sobre los movimientos de los juveniles y adultos adentro y entre aos, sobre los orgenes de las reas reproductivas y sobre la variacin de los parmetros demogrficos (e.g., supervivencia y productividad) entre los grupos de muda. Ms aiin, los datos de gentica poblacional de estos grupos sugieren que existe flujo gnico tanto en los loci nucleares como mitocondriales. Estos mensajes confusos entre los datos demogrficos (i.e., anillado) y genticos son cada vez ms comunes en los estudios ornitolgicos y ofrecen oportunidades flnicas para re-evaluar las predicciones y establecer inferencias ms robustas sobre la estructura poblacional considerando amplias escalas temporales y espaciales. De este modo, resaltamos que es esta perspectiva ms amplia, que combina demografia y gentica, la que deben cuantificar los bilogos y reconocer los esfuerzos de conservacin. 
4151026| We performed a two-year study of extra-pair paternity in the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) to test a suite of hypotheses relating to ecological factors associated with breeding conditions and parental phenotypes and genotypes. Extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs) accounted for 45 of 419 (11) nestlings and occurred in 33 of 126 (26) broods. EPFs were not correlated with breeding synchrony or breeding density, although they were significantly more common toward the end of each breeding season. Body size and the size of the bib, a secondary sexual character, were no different between males that were cuckolded and those that achieved full paternity in their nests. Older males were cuckolded as frequently as yearlings, and there was no difference between males that were cuckolded and those that were not with regard to two measures of individual genetic diversity. There was no evidence that females sought EPFs to avoid inbreeding, since EPFs were equally likely to be present among pairs that were closely related and those that were only distantly related, and females were equally related to their extra-pair mates as they were to their within-pair mates. Furthermore, extra-pair sires did not possess alleles that were rare in the population. In sum, despite a substantial sample size, we found few correlates of extra-pair paternity in House Sparrows. /// Se realiz un estudio de dos aos de duracin sobre paternidad fuera de la pareja en Passer domesticus con el objeto de probar hiptesis referentes a factores ecolgicos asociados con las condiciones de apareamiento, y a los fenotipos y genotipos parentales. Fertilizaciones extra-pareja (FEP) dan cuenta de 45 de 419 polluelos (11%) y ocurrieron en 33 de 126 (26%) nidadas. Las FEP no se correlacionaron con la sincrona o la densidad durante los apareamientos, aunque stas fueron significativamente ms comunes hacia el final de cada estacin de apareamiento. El tamao corporal y el tamao del babero, un carcter sexual secundario, no difirieron entre machos cornudos y aquellos que alcanzaron la paternidad completa en sus nidos. Los machos ms viejos fueron cornudos con igual frecuencia que los de un ao de edad, y no hubo diferencias entre machos cornudos y los que no lo fueron en dos medidas de diversidad gentica individual. No hubo evidencia de que las hembras buscaran tener FEP para evitar la endocruza, puesto que las FEP tuvieron igual probabilidad de suceder en parejas cercanamente relacionadas y en aquellas distantemente relacionadas, y las hembras estuvieron igualmente relacionadas con los consortes fuera de la pareja que con su pareja. Ms an, los padres extra-pareja no portaban alelos raros en la poblacin. En resumen, a pesar de un tamao muestral substancial, se encontraron pocas correlaciones con la paternidad extra-pareja en P. domesticus. 
10.1525/cond.2010.100031|In many species, immature individuals are less proficient at foraging than are adults, and this difference may be especially critical during winter when survival can be at its minimum. We investigated the foraging proficiency of adult and immature American Oystercatchers (
1369823| We investigated whether the synchrony and proximity of nests of Yellow-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius thilius) provided protection against nest predation or brood parasitism by Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis). We analyzed the effect of the temporal aggregation of nests on the daily probability per nest of predation, desertion, egg punctures, and parasitism throughout the breeding season. The probabilities of nest predation and nest desertion increased through the breeding season. The temporal aggregation of nests was negatively associated with the probability of nest desertion, egg punctures, and parasitism, but there was no association with the probability of nest predation. We also analyzed the effect of the number of close neighbor nests on the daily probability per nest of predation, desertion, egg punctures, and brood parasitism. The spatial aggregation of nests was negatively associated with the probability of nest failure and brood parasitism, but there was no association with the probability of egg punctures. We discuss whether dilution effect or group defense, two mechanisms proposed to explain the antipredatory advantages of colonial nesting, are likely to apply to our system. /// Se investig si la sincrona y la proximidad de nidos del Agelaius thilius provey proteccin ante la depredacin del nido y el parasitismo de cra por Molothrus bonariensis. Se analiz el efecto de la agregacin temporal de nidos sobre la probabilidad diaria por nido de depredacin, abandono, picaduras y parasitismo a lo largo de la temporada reproductiva. Las probabilidades de predacin y abandono del nido aumentaron a medida que avanz la temporada reproductiva. La agregacin temporal de nidos estuvo negativamente asociada con la probabilidad de abandono, picaduras y parasitismo pero no se observ asociacin de sta con la probabilidad de predacin. Tambin se analiz el efecto del nmero de nidos vecinos cercanos sobre la probabilidad de prdida del nido y de parasitismo de cra. La agregacin espacial de nidos estuvo asociada negativamente con la probabilidad de prdida del nido y de parasitismo de cra pero no se observ una asociacin de sta con la probabilidad de picadura de huevos. Se discute si el efecto de dilucin o la defensa grupal, dos mecanismos propuestos para explicar los beneficios antipredatorios de la nidificacin colonial, son probables de ocurrir en este sistema. 
10.2307/1368244|From 1984-1987, 48 nesting attempts of Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) were observed for 568 days (8,397 hr) in southwestern Idaho. Observations started 1-5 weeks prior to incubation until the young were 35 days old or a nesting attempt failed. I investigated prey delivery, caching, and retrieval rates during the nesting season; relationships between prey delivery rates, hatching date, the number of young fledged per pair, and the physical condition of the young were assessed. The main prey item was the Townsend's ground squirrel (Spermophilus townsendii), which accounted for 37% of all delivered prey items (n = 1,742 items). Males delivered 97.5, 95.3, and 70.2% of all prey items during the preincubation, incubation, and brood-rearing stages, respectively. Overall, males delivered 76.6% of all prey. Prey delivery rates by a pair were three to four times higher during brood rearing than during preincubation and incubation. The prey delivery through the day was bimodal in frequency and may have reflected the diurnal aboveground activity pattern of the falcon's main prey item, the Townsend's ground squirrel. Diurnal caching patterns followed delivery patterns. Prey delivery rates per pair/hour decreased with progressively later hatching dates, resulting in a decrease in productivity. Prey delivery rates per pair/hour and the proportion of Townsend's ground squirrel in a falcon pair's diet increased with the number of young fledged per pair. Caching and retrieval rates peaked during the first 2 weeks of brood rearing and then declined. Retrieval rates did not differ from caching rates. Prey retrievals peaked in the early morning and late afternoon hours. Caching was considered an important behavioral mechanism to maximize food intake and to dampen fluctuations in prey availability.
10.2307/1369034| Details of the annual molt in Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris) and Black-chinned Hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri) are presented. Young of both species hatch essentially naked but within three weeks acquire a full set of feathers. After the birds migrate to winter quarters, these feathers are replaced completely before the first year of age and annually thereafter. The postnuptial molt in adult males and females is similar within species and proceeds at about the same rate. The same is true for young birds in juvenal plumage, though molting is generally initiated and completed later than in adults. The period required for the molt of remiges and rectrices in an individual is estimated at around four months, while on a population basis it is underway for 7-8 months. Comparisons of the annual molt in Ruby-throated and Black-chinned Hummingbirds to other hummingbirds show that there are numerous similarities, differences being primarily attributable to migrant versus resident status. /// La muda anual est detallada en el Chupaflor Garganta de Rub (Archilochus colubris) y el Chupaflor Terciopelo Barbanegro (Archilochus alexandri). Jovenes de los dos especies empollan esencialmente nudos pero dentro de tres semanas adquieran un completo vestido de plumas. Despus las aves migrar a sus sitios invernales, estas plumas son repuestas completamente a dentro del ao primero y anualmente despus de eso. La muda de adultos es semejante en machos y hembras en cada especies y procede mas o menos en los mismos incrementos proporcionales. Esto tambin es verdad para los juveniles, an ellos por lo general inician y completan la muda despus de los adultos. La muda de las primarias y secundarias y plumas de la cola dura unos quatro meses en aves individuales y 7-8 meses en poblaciones. Comparaciones en la muda entre estas y otras chuparosas muestran numerosos similitudes, y las diferencias son primariamente entre los especies que son residentes contra migratorios. 
10.2307/1370004|We report a significant male-bias (1.8:1) in Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) captured with floating mist nets during the breeding season over four years (1994-1997) at Theodosia Inlet, Desolation Sound, British Columbia. There was little evidence for marked annual or diurnal variation in male-bias, or for variation due to flight direction of birds when they contacted the net (inland vs. out to sea). In contrast, samples of adult and juvenile Marbled Murrelets captured using a night-lighting technique at Desolation Sound in 1997 were not male-biased. We believe that the most likely explanation for our results is that there are sex-specific differences in behavior of Marbled Murrelets during the breeding period, such that more males than females are flying between marine foraging and inland nesting areas.
1370527| We describe four discrete variants of the frequency-modulated flight calls of Evening Grosbeaks (Coccothraustes vespertinus) in the United States and southwestern Canada. Each call type is aurally and spectrographically distinct, and individual birds appear to produce only one call type. The observed geographic distributions of these call types are roughly concordant with described subspecies ranges. The long-term geographic distribution patterns of these vocal forms, and of genetic, morphological, and plumage correlates of vocalizations, warrant further study. /// Describimos cuatro variantes discretas de las llamadas de vuelo de frecuencia modulada de Coccothraustes vespertinus en los Estados Unidos y el sudoeste de Canad. Cada tipo de llamada es auditiva y espectrogrficamente distintivo, y un individuo dado parece emitir slo uno de ellos. La distribucin geogrfica observada de estos tipos de llamadas concuerda de manera general con las distribuciones de las subespecies. Es necesario hacer ms estudios sobre los patrones de distribucin geogrfica a largo plazo de estas formas vocales, y sobre qu caracteres genticos, morfolgicos y de plumaje se correlacionan con las vocalizaciones. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090021|We analyzed the structure and variation of the songs of the Brownish-flanked Bush Warbler (
10.2307/1368810|During the breeding season female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) give vocalizations containing a series of individual notes. Using a visual categorization system based on sonagrams of individual notes, five categories of notes were identified that commonly occurred in this population. Notes within categories were distinguishable, but there was extensive grading between some note types. The visual categorization was tested using naive judges and multivariate analyses of structural characteristics. Structural variables used to characterize notes did not differ among females, but variables differed significantly among note types, and note types varied differently among females. Multivariate cluster analyses supported the visual note categories and reflected the grading between some note types. If individual notes convey different information, combining these notes into composite vocalizations gives a female tremendous communication potential. Defining categories among individual signal units is the first step in analyzing the information content of female Red-winged Blackbird vocalizations.
10.2307/1369334|We examined the dispersal and gregariousness of 10 ravens from one feeding flock through daily and nocturnal monitoring for 70 days and nights over an area of approximately 5,000 km<sup>2</sup>. One of the birds took a mate and established residency within this area. Another passed through the area on infrequent intervals having an apparently much larger range. Two stayed only a day or less. All but one bird wandered widely, taking up residency lasting for one to several weeks in ranges from 190-3, 100 km<sup>2</sup>. The 10 birds from the feeding flock did not stay together, although up to two occasionally overlapped at nocturnal roosts. The birds roosted and dispersed independently of one another with no indication of any "flock" cohesiveness. There was a great variation of response from "vagrants" to "residents", with one grading into the other through temporary residences and periods of wandering.
10.2307/1369906|In many species of north temperate-zone passerines, females do not sing, but rather use female-specific calls for acoustic communication. In a resident population in Washington state, banded adult male Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) outside the breeding season used a vocalization (chitter call) previously believed to be used only by females. This phenomenon has not been observed previously because most field studies of temperate passerines are confined to the breeding season. In this population, juvenile males attempt to establish territories in fall when they do not yet sing fully crystallized songs. Use of female-typical vocalizations by adult males outside the breeding season may allow adults of both sexes to communicate about territories to juvenile males who cannot yet sing the full adult songs males typically use to communicate territorial boundaries.
4096548| We studied the nocturnal foraging behavior of Surf Scoters (Melanitta perspicillata) and White-winged Scoters (Melanitta fusca) during winter in coastal British Columbia, Canada. Using radio telemetry, we collected nocturnal and diurnal data documenting the frequency of foraging dives and the location of scoters in relation to their intertidal foraging grounds. We found that dive foraging rarely occurred during nocturnal periods for either species. Only 2% of nocturnal observation blocks for both scoter species contained diving, compared with 98% of diurnal observation blocks. This corresponded to an average of only 0.1 min spent underwater per half-hour observation block during the night and over 7 min during the day. Both species of scoters were located farther offshore and in deeper waters during nocturnal hours, indicating that they were not using intertidal foraging areas at night. Our results suggest that Surf Scoters and White-winged Scoters face daylight-imposed limits on the amount of available foraging time. These potential day-length restrictions should be considered when reviewing human activities that potentially alter the amount of available foraging time or food supplies in winter habitats. /// Se estudi el comportamiento de forrajeo nocturno de Melanitta perspicillata y M. fusca durante el invierno en la costa de British Columbia. Utilizando radio-telemetra, se colectaron datos nocturnos y diurnos sobre la frecuencia de buceos para alimentarse y la ubicacin de las aves con relacin a la zona intermareal. Se encontr que los buceos nocturnos son infrecuentes para ambas especies. Slo en el 2% de las observaciones nocturnas de ambas especies se presentaron instancias de buceo, en comparacin con el 98% de las observaciones diurnas. Esto corresponde a un promedio de 0.11 minutos bajo el agua por cada 30 minutos de observacin durante la noche y ms de 7 minutos durante el da. Ambas especies se ubicaron ms alejadas de la costa y en aguas ms profundas durante la noche, indicando que los individuos no utilizaron zonas intermareales durante este periodo. Estos resultados sugieren que M. perspicillata y M. fusca enfrentan restricciones en el nmero de horas disponibles para alimentarse en funcin de la cantidad de luz. El efecto de la duracin del da debe ser considerado cuando se estudia el impacto de actividades humanas que pueden alterar el tiempo disponible para forrajeo o la cantidad de alimento durante el invierno. 
10.2307/1368562|For the first time, the effect of mechanical clearing of a native ohia/koa (Metrosideros polymorpha)/(Acacia koa) forest has been determined on some Hawaiian birds. Counts conducted on Keauhou Ranch, Island of Hawaii, at 6-month intervals, from December 1977/January 1978 through June/July 1983, showed that species richness and bird abundance were lower in the mechanically cleared or treated plots than on an adjacent control plot. In the treated plots, the nonnative Japanese White-eye (Zosterops japonicus), Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), and the Red-billed Leiothrix (Leiothrix lutea) were found in higher abundance than native species and they also were the first to recolonize following treatment. The most successful recolonizing species in the treated plots was the Japanese White-eye. Although endangered forest passerines were present in the adjacent control plot, they were not found in the treated plots. Seasonal differences in the number of birds detected in the treated plots were only observed for the native Apapane (Himatione sanguinea); it was found in high numbers following initial clearing, but subsequently declined, remaining stable through the study period.
10.1525/cond.2012.110084|We document here a decline of nearly 30% in the Marbled Murrelet (
10.2307/1367508|Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) collected during mid-winter from a 2,800-km longitudinal range in the eastern United States showed significant geographic variation in body weight, feather weight, wing length, culmen length, tarsus length, dry weight, lean dry weight, lipid weight and lipid index. Total lipid reserves and indices were greatest at middle latitudes. Starlings from the central part of the study area were significantly larger than those at either northern or southern extremes as measured by wing length, body weight and lean dry weight. Insulation, as measured by weight of body feathers per unit of surface area, increased with isophane, an index of regional temperature, but morphometric measures were generally less interpretable.
4123211| We examined differential migration in the Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri) with respect to body size and wing chord allometry within sex and age categories. Culmen and wing chord data were collected as indices of structural body size at three sites that vary latitudinally: Ecuador, Panama, and Mexico. Within all sex and age categories, larger individuals (i.e., those with longer culmens and wing chords) and those with a disproportionately longer wing chord relative to the culmen migrated farther south. Our results, coupled with known molting schedules, indicate that i) immature sandpipers that grow disproportionately longer primary feathers on breeding grounds migrate farther during their first southward migration, and ii) adults that fly farther grow disproportionately longer primary feathers on the nonbreeding grounds. Although no single-factor hypothesis accounts for all aspects of age, sex, and size of Western Sandpiper distributions, costs associated with flight during migration play a significant role in determining differential nonbreeding latitudinal distributions. /// Examinamos la migratin diferencial en Calidris mauri con relatin al tamao corporal y las medidas de la cuerda alar para distintas categoras de sexo y de edad. Se colectaron datos de culmen y cuerda alar como indicadores del tamao estructural en trs sitios ubicados a distinta latitud: Ecuador, Panam y Mxico. Dentro de cada categora de sexo y de edad, los individuos ms grandes (con culmen y ala ms largos) y con alas desproporcionadamente ms largas con relatin al culmen migraron ms al sur. Nuestros resultados, considerados en conjunto con los patrones de muda, indican que i) los individuos inmaduros que desarrollan plumas primarias desproporcionadamente ms largas en los sitios de reproductin llegan ms al sur durante su primera migracin hacia los sitios no-reproductivos y ii) los adultos que migran ms al sur desarrollan plumas primarias desproporcionadamente ms largas en los sitios no-reproductivos. Aunque ninguna de las hiptesis previamente propuestas para la migracin differencial explican todos los aspectos de las distribuciones por edad, sexo y tamao en C. mauri, los costos asociados al vuelo durante la migracin juegan un papel significativo en la determinacin de la distribucin latitudinal durante la poca no-reproductiva. 
10.2307/1370236|Community studies of birds often rely on abundance estimates that are obtained from counts of bird vocalizations, yet vocalizations are not equally detectable in all habitats. I broadcast vocalizations for nine bird species to evaluate biases in detection of bird vocalizations among four forested habitats (young, mature, and old aspendominated forests, and white spruce dominated forests), and in relation to height of the broadcast, whether the broadcast occurred before or after leaf formation, and the frequency of the broadcast vocalization. Virtually all of the broadcast vocalizations were detected at 50 m from the speaker. However, at 100 m from the speaker, 27% of the broadcast vocalizations were not detected and detection was highest in white spruce forest, lowest in young aspen forest, and intermediate in mature and old aspen forests. Detection of broadcasts was negatively related to the minimum frequency of the vocalization, higher for broadcasts from the canopy than for broadcasts from the shrub layer, and higher for broadcasts before than after leaf formation. I reanalyzed abundance data that were obtained from a study involving point counts of wild birds in young and old aspendominated forest. Biases among habitats in the detection of vocalizations had moderate influence on the resulting measures of habitat preferences for birds. I suggest that if a detection distance of more than 50 m is used for bird censuses within forested habitats, then comparisons among forest types should be interpreted cautiously unless the researchers demonstrate that biased detection of vocalizations does not affect their conclusions.
10.2307/1369187|We describe the patterns of song variation in the Rufous-browed Peppershrike (Cyclarhis gujanensis). Individual variation was estimated using a sample of 659 songs belonging to 21 individuals. This analysis showed that this species uses a repertoire of up to seven song types. Geographic, ecological, and subspecific patterns of variation were estimated using four songs from each of 93 birds recorded from Mexico to Argentina. On each sonogram we measured 10 temporal, frequency, and structural features of the song. Principal component analysis based on the correlation matrix of these data showed that subspecies sing similar songs. However, there were significant relationships between principal component values and latitude, indicating that songs from equatorial areas are shorter in duration, have higher maximum frequency and number of syllables, broader bandwidth and are less repetitive than those from more temperate areas. In addition, we classified the recording sites into three categories according to the actual vegetation: open, mixed, and closed. A multivariate analysis of variance after removing the effect of latitude and altitude, showed that habitat types differ in song structure. Songs from open and mixed areas have a narrow bandwidth, and a lower maximum, minimum and emphasized frequencies than those from closed sites. We analyzed these patterns according to the current ideas about sound propagation in natural environments and the geographical pattern of body size variation in the Rufous-browed Peppershrike.
40306123|The Red Knot (
1370679| Ornithological studies in the Iquitos region of Loreto, Peru, mostly along the Ros Tigre and Nanay, revealed the presence of a previously undetected avifauna restricted to forests growing on ancient white sand or deeply weathered clays, and the blackwater rivers and lakes that drain them. In addition to four species new to science (described elsewhere), eight new species for Peru (Crypturellus duidae, Crypturellus casiquiare, Nyctibius leucopterus, Myrmotherula cherriei, Hemitriccus minimus, Lophotriccus galeatus, Neopelma chrysocephalum, and Xipholena punicea) were documented with tape recordings and specimens. Specimens of two additional species that had only sight or voice records for Peru (Notharchus ordii and Nyctiprogne leucopyga) were also collected. Most represented range extensions of 300-700 km from the blackwater, "sandy-belt" region of far eastern Colombia. We postulate that the western Guianas were the source of ancestral stocks of most contemporary isolates in white-sand habitats in northeastern Peru and eastern Ecuador. We also provide data on several other white-sand and blackwater specialists documented in the study area, and some other birds especially poorly known in Peru. /// Estudios ornitolgicos en la regin de Iquitos, Loreto, Per, principalmente a lo largo de los Ros Tigre y Nanay, revelaron la presencia de una avifauna no detectada con anterioridad y restringida a los hbitats de arena blanca (incluyendo ros y lagos de agua negra) y bosques sobre arcillas muy meteorizadas. Adems de cuatro especies nuevas para la ciencia (descritas en otras publicaciones), ocho especies nuevas para Per (Crypturellus duidae, Crypturellus casiquiare, Nyctibius leucopterus, Myrmotherula cherriei, Hemitriccus minimus, Lophotriccus galeatus, Neopelma chrysocephalum, y Xipholena punicea) han sido documentadas con grabacin de vocalizaciones y especmenes. Tambin fueron colectados especmenes de dos especies adicionales, que slo contaban con registros visuales o de voz para el Per (Notharchus ordii y Nyctiprogne leucopyga). La mayora de estos registros representan extensiones de distribucin de 300-700 km, desde la regin de suelos arenosos y aguas negras del extremo oriental de Colombia, y proponemos que las Guyanas occidentales son el origen de las reservas ancestrales de la mayora de las poblaciones aisladas contemporneas en hbitats de arena blanca en el noreste del Per y el este de Ecuador. Tambin proporcionamos informacin sobre varias otras aves especialistas de arenas blancas y aguas negras documentadas en el rea de estudio, y algunas otras poco conocidas en Per. 
90008052|Estuarine intertidal habitats are heterogeneous, therefore migratory shorebirds are expected to forage in microhabitats where they can maximize their energy intake. Identifying proximate factors that migratory shorebirds use to accept or reject a particular habitat patch will help land managers make conservation and restoration decisions that provide the greatest benefits to shorebird populations during migration, a period of intense energy usage. We examined whether small semipermanent tidal channels were preferentially used by foraging Western Sandpipers (
4151094| We studied the breeding success of resident Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) over a 20-year period along the Pit River drainage in northern California. In 258 nesting attempts at 10 intensively studied nesting territories, 0.31 to 1.65 young were produced per year per occupied territory (mean = 0.97), with average nesting success of 62%. Nineteen individually banded breeding adult Bald Eagles produced from zero to 36 young during their lifetimes, and birds remained on their territories for 1-16 years following capture as adults. We calculated a 90% annual survival rate for breeding adults from our sample of 19 birds, with longevity of one banded eagle at 22 years. Eagles that bred on a territory for a greater number of years did not produce a greater number of young annually on average than other breeding birds. Larger males, as evidenced by body mass at capture, produced significantly more young over their lifetimes than smaller males. This same relationship did not hold for females, however. Seven banded pairs of adults remained together on their territories for 3-15 years. Reproduction decreased significantly following replacement of a breeding adult on a territory, and this effect continued for 2-3 years following replacement. /// Estudiamos el xito de crianza de individuos de Haliaeetus leucocephalus que residen en los alrededores del Ro Pitt en el Norte de California durante un perodo de ms de 20 aos. De 258 intentos de anidacin evaluados en diez territorios de anidamiento estudiados intensamente, se produjeron anualmente 0.31 a 1.65 cras por territorio ocupado (media = 0.97), con una tasa promedio de xito de 62%. Diez y nueve guilas individualmente anilladas engendraron de cero a 36 cras a lo largo de toda su vida, y dichas aves permanecieron en sus territorios de uno a 16 aos despus de haber sido capturadas ya como adultos. Calculamos una tasa de supervivencia anual de adultos de 90% a partir de una muestra de 19 aves, que incluy un guila anillada cuya longevidad fue de 22 aos. Las guilas que criaron en un mismo territorio durante mucho tiempo no produjeron anualmente un promedio mayor de cras que otros adultos. Los machos ms grandes, evidenciados por el peso corporal en el momento de su captura, produjeron significativamente ms cras durante toda su vida que los machos ms pequeos. Sin embargo, esta misma relacin no tuvo lugar para las hembras. Siete parejas anilladas de adultos permanecieron juntos en sus territorios de tres a 15 aos. La reproduccin decreci signiflcativamente despus del reemplazo de un adulto de crianza de un territorio, y este efecto continu durante 2 a 3 aos despus de dicho reemplazo. 
10.2307/1367606| A five-season study of bird migration in the Near Islands, western Aleutian Islands, Alaska, resulted in data that suggest that some 30 Palearctic and Aleutican taxa that are of irregular occurrence or are virtually unknown in Alaska east of 180 occur regularly on passage in this area in small numbers, some of them both spring and autumn. Most of these forms are apparently en route in spring to the Koryak Highlands or the Anadyr River basin, both of which areas lie directly north of the Near Islands, in the U.S.S.R. An annotated list of 147 taxa discusses all forms recorded. 
10.2307/1369725|I investigated the relationship between White-fronted Terns (Sterna striata) associating with Hector's dolphins (Cephalorhynchus hectori) while feeding in the near-shore environment of New Zealand. Associations were observed only in the austral spring and early summer. At this time up to 15.7% of all dolphin groups were accompanied by terns. The birds usually joined surface-feeding dolphins with single terns apparently hovering over single dolphins. Associated tern numbers were positively correlated with dolphin group size and increased significantly with the duration of the association. Terns were more often associated with significantly larger dolphin groups and under calmer sea conditions. Water clarity, however, appeared to have little influence in the birds' decision whether or not to associate with a group of foraging dolphins. The occurrence of feeding associations appeared to be restricted by the occurrence of small, inshore moving fish species. The associations are likely to constitute facultative commensalism by the birds and may be particularly advantageous during breeding when energetic demands are high.
4501007|Waterfowl employ a broad array of strategies for acquiring the energy and nutrients needed for egg formation, ranging from storage of endogenous reserves prior to arrival on breeding areas to complete reliance on exogenous food sources available at breeding sites. We used stable isotope analyses (
10.2307/1368997|We studied hawk-owls in the southwestern Yukon, Canada, from 1987-1993. Most information on hawk-owls originates from studies in Europe, and very little is known about the subspecies Surnia ulula caparoch in North America. The boreal forest communities in the two continents differ remarkably in the composition of cyclic herbivore populations. Fennoscandia is dominated by 3-4 year microtine cycles, whereas northern Canada and Alaska experience a 10-year cycle in snowshoe hare numbers, with voles fluctuating at lower levels. We studied the diets of nine nesting pairs by pellet analysis, and we observed prey deliveries at five nests. The proportion of voles in the diets was lower than reported from Fennoscandia, and snowshoe hares made up 40-50% during the peak of the hare cycle. Estimates of prey densities by live-trapping revealed that hawk-owls strongly prefer voles over snowshoe hares and squirrels. Among voles, Microtus were preferred and Clethrionomys were avoided. Hawk-owls showed, however, a functional response not only to voles but also to juvenile hares, and they may be critically dependent on larger prey during certain nesting stages when vole abundance is moderate or low. Breeding densities and winter observations changed concurrently over years of different prey abundance. Prey selection translated into population consequences: hawk-owls did not respond numerically to Clethrionomys outbreaks, but to the combined densities of Microtus and snowshoe hares. We conclude that the Northern Hawk-Owl is less of a vole specialist and more affected by the prey composition in specific systems than commonly assumed, and we discuss this pattern from an evolutionary perspective.
10.1525/cond.2011.100230|It has been hypothesized that incubation begins before laying is completed because it controls bacterial growth on eggshells and infection of eggs. If so, early incubation should be associated with decreased abundance of bacteria on eggshells. There is no detailed information on incubation during daytime or nighttime during laying and its association with bird eggshells' bacterial loads. We used temperature sensors placed in contact with eggs and connected to data-loggers to measure early incubation by females of the Pied Flycatcher,
1370037| The nesting ecology of breeding pairs of the Western Gull  Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus occidentalis  glaucescens) hybrid complex was investigated at two locations in coastal Washington. In Grays Harbor, breeding performance (clutch size, hatching and fledging success) was highest in vegetated habitat where nests were most dense and where natural screens blocked the nearest neighbor. Egg loss, presumably from gull predators, was common except in areas of dense vegetation. At Tatoosh Island, egg loss was rare, and breeding performance was similar in vegetated and rock habitats. To test if physical structure around open-area nests influenced egg loss in Grays Harbor, predator-exclusion fences were erected around nests on a sandbar island lacking vegetation. Excluding predators reduced egg loss and increased hatching success relative to nests with adjacent natural screens (drift-wood logs >30 cm tall) or nests lacking natural screens. Pairs that nest in habitats with adequate habitat structure appear to benefit in terms of lower egg loss and higher nesting success, especially in Grays Harbor. Increasing structure around individual nests may increase breeding success of gulls or other seabirds that experience extensive nest predation. /// La ecologa de anidacin de parejas reproductivas del complejo hbrido Larus occidentalis  glaucescens fue investigada en dos localidades en la costa de Washington. En Grays Harbor, el desempeo reproductivo (en trminos del tamao de la nidada y el xito de eclosin y emplumamiento) fue mximo en ambientes con vegetacin donde los nidos estaban a mayor densidad y donde el vecino ms cercano estaba separado por barreras naturales. La prdida de huevos (presumiblemente ante gaviotas depredadoras) fue comn excepto en reas con vegetacin densa. En la isla Tatoosh, la prdida de huevos fue poco frecuente y el desempeo reproductivo fue similar en ambientes con vegetacin y ambientes rocosos. Para determinar si la estructura fsica alrededor de los nidos en reas abiertas influenciaba la prdida de huevos en Grays Harbor, se construyeron cercas para excluir a los depredadores alrededor de nidos en una isla arenosa carente de vegetacin. La exclusin de depredadores redujo la prdida de huevos e increment el xito de eclosin con relacin a nidos con barreras naturales adyacentes (troncos de >30 cm de alto) y a nidos sin barreras naturales. Las parejas que anidan en ambientes con estructura de hbitat adecuada parecen beneficiarse en trminos de una menor prdida de huevos y un mayor xito de anidacin, especialmente en Grays Harbor. Incrementar la estructura alrededor de nidos individuales podra aumentar el xito reproductivo de gaviotas u otras aves marinas sujetas a altos niveles de depredacin de nidos. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110136|In the United States, government-mandated growth in the production of crops dedicated to biofuel (agrofuels) is predicted to increase the demands on existing agricultural lands, potentially threatening the persistence of populations of grassland birds they support. We review recently published literature and datasets to (1) examine the ability of alternative agrofuel crops and their management regimes to provide habitat for grassland birds, (2) determine how crop placement in agricultural landscapes and agrofuel-related land-use change will affect grassland birds, and (3) identify critical research and policy-development needs associated with agrofuel production. We find that native perennial plants proposed as feedstock for agrofuel (switchgrass,
10.2307/1368536|Catastrophic events can create ecological crunches for avian populations. Ornithologists generally assume that such events elicit immediate, dramatic declines in populations followed by rapid recolonization of a site with habitat recovery. Despite total inundation of habitats within the South Platte floodplain of eastern Colorado during the 1983 breeding season, populations of Brown Thrashers (Toxostoma rufum) and Rufoussided Towhees (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) did not decline significantly from 1982 densities. However, populations of both species declined significantly in 1984 and towhee populations remained low in 1985. These observations support speculations from recent studies of shrubsteppe bird populations that site tenacity may play a stronger role in determining annual densities of breeding birds than previously realized.
1370753| This paper reports geographic variation in wingtip patterns of Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) from the circumpolar Arctic. The amount of black in the wingtip increased and the amount of white decreased from Arctic Canada-west Greenland, counterclockwise to the Pacific. Differences were greatest between Pacific and Atlantic, but were also apparent within the Atlantic sample. Patterns of variation were not clinal. Known levels of philopatry in kittiwakes would tend to maintain both phenotypic and genotypic differences between regions, but the similarity of birds from Newfoundland, British Isles, and Barents Sea suggests some degree of dispersal over this wide area. Wingtip pattern data support continued separation of Pacific and Atlantic kittiwakes into two subspecies under the biological species concept. Under the phylogenetic species concept, Pacific and Atlantic Black-legged Kittiwakes may represent two species. /// Este trabajo presenta la variacin geogrfica existente en los patrones de coloracin de la punta del ala de Rissa tridactyla en el rea circumpolar rtica. La cantidad de negro en la punta del ala increment y la cantidad de blanco disminuy desde el rtico canadiense y el oeste de Groenlandia en sentido contrario a las agujas del reloj hacia el Pacfico. Las mayores diferencias se registraron entre el Pacfico y el Atlntico, pero tambin fueron evidentes en la muestra del Atlntico. Los patrones de variacin no fueron graduales. Los niveles conocidos de filopatra en R. tridactyla tenderan a mantener las diferencias tanto fenotpicas como genotpicas entre regiones, pero la similitud de las aves de Newfoundland, las Islas Britnicas y el Mar de Barents sugiere algn grado de dispersin a travs de esta extensa rea. Considerando el concepto biolgico de especie, los datos sobre los patrones de la punta del ala apoyan la separacin de las aves del Pacfico y del Atlntico en dos subespecies. Considerando el concepto filogentico de especie, los individuos de R. tridactyla del Pacfico y del Atlntico pueden pertenecer a dos especies diferentes. 
10.2307/1368234|Time-activity budgets, courtship, and aggression of paired and unpaired Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) were studied on the upper Mississippi River and on Long Point Bay, Lake Erie, during spring migration. Of Canvasbacks present, 25-28% were female of which 17-27% were paired. Paired Canvasbacks spent more time in foraging aggression and initiated and won more encounters than did unpaired individuals. Paired females engaged in more courtship-related threats, chases, and neck-stretches than did unpaired females. Paired females exceeded paired males in foraging aggression and in courtship behaviors such as neck-stretches and chases, with the trend in all chases reversing just before or upon arrival at nesting sites. Thus in the early stages of pairing, females rather than males appeared to assume the primary role in foraging aggression and repelling courtship advances of other males.
10.2307/1370242|We used genetic analysis to examine the mating strategies of male and female Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) in central Kentucky. DNA fingerprinting revealed no evidence of extra-pair fertilizations in 23 broods (80 nestlings). Such results suggest that pursuit of extra-pair copulations by male and female screech-owls may be costly. One possible cost for females is the risk of losing the nest site. Alternatively, pursuit of extra-pair matings by females might be energetically expensive, thereby conflicting with egg production. Male screech-owls provide food for their mate (and young) during much of the breeding season and such feeding probably affects reproductive success. Males pursuing EPCs might have less time for foraging and, as a result, reduced reproductive success.
10.1525/cond.2010.090186|We wish to use stable-isotope analysis of flight feathers to understand the feeding behavior of pelagic seabirds, such as the Hawaiian Petrel (
10.1525/cond.2012.110052|The poorly known
10.2307/1368192|The daily allocation of time and energy of adult Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana) feeding 9-12 day-old nestlings was measured using time-activity budget and doubly-labeled water methods. Components of the bluebird energy budget were estimated by extrapolating laboratory measurements of metabolic heat production to field conditions using a linear heat-transfer model and the operative temperature and wind speed experienced by the free-living bird. This model was validated with the doubly-labeled water method. Adult Western Bluebirds feeding nestlings are neither food-limited nor working maximally. Adults fulfilled their own energy requirements, and those of four to six nestlings, while actively pursuing prey for less than 10% of their active day. The daily energy requirement of a 27.5 g adult bluebird averaged 95 kJ/day (n = 52), which is 2.6 times its nighttime basal metabolic rate. Thermostatic requirements were the most variable components of the energy budget (CV = 41.6%). Differential use of microhabitats by individuals accounted for some of this variability. Activity costs were less variable (CV = 17.6%) and accounted for less than 20% of the total energy budget. Differences in brood size resulted in a minor difference in activity costs (3kJ/day) between broods of four and six. Variation in thermostatic costs overshadowed this small brood-size effect, resulting in no significant brood-size effect on total daily energy expenditure. This study suggests that bluebirds, like several other temperate passerine species, are able to regulate their overall daily energy expenditures within definable limits through differential use of thermal environments and activity budgets. I conclude that potential food limitations on reproductive output are more likely to occur at other stages of the breeding cycle due to greater variability in weather and food conditions compared to the nestling stage.
10.2307/1367469|During their Antarctic breeding season Emperor Penguins (Aptenodytes forsteri) fast as long as 115 days and walk as far as 200 km from the sea to their rookeries and back. The breeding males stand on the ice incubating a single egg for about 62 days. We examined the thermal exchanges between Emperor Penguins and their environment in an attempt to answer the question: Why do these penguins breed during the winter? Existing physiological data for the temperature regulation of Emperor Penguins were used in conjunction with meteorological data from the Antarctic to model thermal interactions between the animal and its environment. Computer simulations for the energy budget of Emperor Penguins in a variety of microclimatic conditions indicate that the heat load imposed on these birds during the Antarctic summer does not limit their choice of breeding season. We conclude that the physiological and morphological characteristics associated with heat exchange do not constrain Emperor Penguins to winter breeding.
10.2307/1369795|I used behavioral, meteorological, and laboratory metabolism data to calculate daily energy expenditure (DEE) in seasonally acclimatized Mountain Chickadees (Poecile gambeli) and Juniper Titmice (Baeolophus griseus). Analyses of laboratory metabolic data revealed that foraging energy requirements were not significantly higher than alert perching energy requirements. Respective DEE of chickadees and titmice were 48.8 kJ day
10.2307/1369604|Captive adult Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus), foraging individually, were selective of native Alaskan fruits. Most individuals had color preferences, commonly preferring red, blue, or green overy yellow. They often favored high-lipid artificial fruits over low-lipid, but only sometimes favored artificial fruits with high levels of corn syrup or sucrose over those with low sugar levels. However, decreased accessibility of the favored fruits generally eliminated the preference for high lipid or high sugar, although accessibility did not alter preferences in parallel experiments with domestic cherries. Artificial fruits with high seed loads were not avoided. In all of the above experiments, individual variation was conspicuous. Crows showed no evidence of learning foliar cues for fruit selection. Hand-raised crows did not prefer the color of the food upon which they were raised. They exhibited extensive individual variation in preferences for color, lipid and sugar content. Free-ranging crows often foraged in groups, lacked the experience of the captive crows with the visual cues available to identify nutrient levels in the experimental fruits, and commonly did not make the same choices collectively as the captive crows. We interpret the extensive variation among individuals, the flexibility of choice, and the difficulty of assessing nutrient levels in conspecific natural fruits as evidence that selection by Northwestern Crows on the fruit traits examined is probably weak and variable.
10.2307/1368186|We measured carbon dioxide production and water efflux of 12 tippler pigeons (Columba spp.) during seven experimental flights using the doubly labeled water (DLW) method. Prior to the experiment birds were randomly assigned to one of two groups. One group flew as controls (no load or harness) on all seven flights. The other group wore a harness on two flights, a dorsal load/harness package (weighing about 5% of a bird's mass) on two flights, and they were without a load in three flights. Flight duration of pigeons with only a harness and with a dorsal load/harness package was 21 and 26% less, respectively, than the controls. Pigeons wearing a harness, or wearing a dorsal load/harness package lost water 50-90%, and 57-100% faster, respectively, than control pigeons. The mean CO<sub>2</sub> production of pigeons wearing a harness or a load/harness package was not significantly different than pigeons without a harness or load. The small sample sizes and large variability in DLW measurements precluded a good test of the energetic cost of flying with a harness and dorsal load.
10.2307/1368940|Mortality rates of seabirds in the Japanese land-based drift gillnet fishery for salmon were assessed from 413 gillnet sets made by Japanese research vessels in offshore areas used by the commercial fleet. Sixteen species of seabirds were recorded in nets. Shearwaters, primarily Short-tailed Shearwaters (Puffinus tenuirostris), and to a lesser extent Sooty Shearwaters (P. griseus), predominated in the catches, followed by lesser numbers of Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) and Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia). Catch-rates of seabirds varied by oceanographic zone, with most being caught in oceanic waters north of the Subarctic Front. Approximately 151,000 seabirds were killed in the offshore component of the land-based fishery in 1977. Mortality was reduced to about 57,000 seabirds in 1987 because of a reduction in fishing effort. No estimates are available of seabird mortality in the nearshore component of the fishery. Mortality of seabirds in the land-based fishery is discussed with respect to other major drift gillnet fisheries in the North Pacific.
10.2307/1367316| We studied six colonies of Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) in South Africa and Namibia, including mainland beach and cliff, and island sites. In the 20 distinct habitats examined, the gulls generally nested in somewhat horizontal areas with either intermediate vegetation cover (25 to 50%) or protruding rocks which provided similar cover. Characteristics favored for nesting were studied by comparing nest sites with matched points 2 m away. In all habitats the gulls selected flatter areas (mean slope less than 15) than the matched points (mean slopes up to 70). Selection of nest sites with more cover may serve to reduce chick loss by providing shelter (vegetation or rock crevices), and the gulls' choice of low rather than tall vegetation may ensure that adults can escape rapidly from the nest. 
10.2307/1369323|I studied tactics used by males to detect fertile females and achieve forced extra-pair copulations (FEPC) and female responses to FEPCs in a non-migratory, asynchronously breeding population of White-cheeked Pintails (Anas bahamensis) in the Bahamas. Males assessed female reproductive status by (1) monitoring behavior of neighboring pairs, (2) visiting the island nesting site and observing laying females directly, and (3) chasing females. FEPC attempts directed at neighboring females were more likely to occur during the female's fertile period than FEPC attempts directed at non-neighbors and a large proportion (44%) of FEPC attempts involved neighboring pairs. Sexual chases of fertile females were more frequent and of longer duration than chases of non-fertile females suggesting that males gain information on female reproductive status in initial chases. Males employed sophisticated tactics to achieve FEPCs, including waylaying females as they left their nests, approaching females surreptitiously by swimming "submarine" style, and capturing and mounting females underwater. Females vigorously resisted FEPC attempts by repeatedly diving, flying away and hiding and were sometimes chased to exhaustion. The high costs of resistance and observations that females resisted copulations from all extra-pair males, regardless of quality, make "resistance-as-a-ploy" and "genetic-quality" hypotheses unlikely explanations for why females resist EPCs. I argue that females resist EPCs to preserve the pairbond and investments of their mates, which in turn protects their investment.
10.2307/1369476|We studied whether or not the proportion of foraging Willets (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus), a Nearctic migrant in northeastern Venezuela, varies seasonally on the wintering grounds in tropical environment as a function of energetic requirements. Data on the number of birds feeding and roosting were collected once or twice a week, from 19 October 1991 to 5 May 1992, during diurnal and nocturnal observation periods, each lasting 12 consecutive hours. There was a correlation between the seasonal changes in the proportion of Willets foraging (day + night) and the seasonal variations in the fat content of other individuals collected in the same region. Willets fed as often during nighttime as during daytime, except in autumn when they fed more during darkness. Compared to December and January, the percentage of birds feeding was greater in October and November. In addition, proportionally more birds fed, both during daytime and nighttime, in preparation for spring migration than in October-November.
10.2307/1369208|The Common Bush-Tanager (Chlorospingus ophthalmicus) displays flexibility in social behavior and prey choice. Thirty-three marked individuals were observed at Monteverde, Costa Rica over 15 consecutive months to determine the effect of social foraging (single individual, single- and mixed-species flock) on levels of frugivory and insectivory. I quantified the effects of social group composition and size, sex, and seasonality on the proportion of fruits and arthropods consumed by individuals. Common Bush-Tanagers spent one-third of their time in mixed-species flocks, consuming higher proportions of arthropods than individuals in single-species groups. Flock composition, rather than flock size, was the major factor influencing patterns of fruit and arthropod consumption. This study supports the hypothesis that birds may join mixed-species flocks in order to consume insect prey because when Common Bush-Tanagers participated in mixed-species flocks, they switched from frugivory to insectivory. Hence, the trophic position of species varies with the particular mix of single-species and mixed-species foraging groups available within a community.
10.2307/1368356|Eight homing pigeons (Columba livia) were flown distances of 90 and 320 km with and without transmitters (weighing either 2.5% or 5.0% of the pigeon's body mass, M<sub>B</sub>) mounted on a back harness. Flight times in April through June for the 90-km distance were 60 min without a transmitter or harness, 69 min with a harness alone and about 76 min with a harness and transmitter (weighing either 2.5% or 5.0% of M<sub>B</sub>). Flight times for the 320-km distance were 4 hr 16 min for the controls and 5 hr 35 min for the two fastest pigeons wearing a harness and transmitter weighing 2.5% of M<sub>B</sub>. The results show that on 90-km flights harnesses alone slow birds by 15% and harnesses and transmitters ( 5%M<sub>B</sub>) slow birds 25 to 28%; on 320-km flights harnesses and transmitters slow birds >31%. Moreover, on the 320-km flights, CO<sub>2</sub> production of the pigeons (measured with the doubly-labeled water method) was 41 to 52% higher per hour when encumbered with a transmitter and harness. Thus, encumbered pigeons produced 85 to 100% more total CO<sub>2</sub> covering the 320-km distance. Therefore, high performance homing pigeons work substantially harder and longer during a long distance flight when wearing harnesses and transmitters.
40072448|The populations of many species are declining worldwide, and conservation efforts struggle to keep pace with extinction rates. Conservation biologists commonly employ strategies such as translocation and reintroduction, which move individuals of endangered species from one part of their range to another. Because individuals from endangered populations are nonexpendable, identifying any potential barriers to the establishment of viable populations prior to release of individuals should be a priority. This study evaluates the potential for learned communication signals to constrain conservation strategies such as reintroduction in an endangered species, the Thick-billed Parrot (
10.2307/1367983|Spectral profiles of intact carotenoid-bearing feathers and of pigments isolated from polls and breasts of Common and Hoary redpolls (Carduelis flammea and C. hornemanni) were compared to help clarify the taxonomic relationship of the two taxa. Pigments were identified by thin-layer chromatography and by partitioning experiments. Two carotenoids were present in all samples, apparently echinenone and lutein. Color differences between taxa result from differences in absolute concentrations and changes in the relative concentration of the two pigments. Orange feathers have relatively high concentrations of lutein. Pigments are restricted to feather rami. Those most intensely colored (from polls) have flattened rami and lack barbules. New breast feathers are tipped with an unpigmented band. During late winter the band becomes worn exposing the colored rami. The most intensely pigmented breast feathers (usually those of Common Redpolls) lose their barbules as spring and summer progress.
4151086| Arctic-nesting geese depend on nutrients acquired during spring migration for reproduction, and thus should attempt to maximize nutrient intake while on staging areas. We investigated site use of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) at an important staging location-Humboldt Bay, California-to determine whether birds selected the most profitable feeding areas available. Migrating Brant feed almost exclusively on eelgrass (Zostera marina), which is restricted in availability due to daily and seasonal tidal cycles. We mapped foraging Brant locations during low tides and collected eelgrass samples to describe food resources in 31 areas in the bay. We used negative binomial regression to evaluate goose densities during different tidal levels and times of season as a function of food biomass and nutrient content, distance from grit sites, and substrate elevation. Results varied by time of season and tidal depth, but Brant densities were positively correlated with eelgrass protein, calcium, and biomass in most analyses. Brant usually fed in the deepest possible areas permitted by tides, and closer to tidal channels, where biomass and nutrient content of eelgrass were greater and where depletion from grazing was probably less. During higher low tides, Brant fed closer to previously visited grit sites. Tide cycles change over the course of the Brant's staging period on the bay, enabling longer and more frequent access to deeper eelgrass meadows as spring progresses. These seasonal changes in tidal pattern coincide with seasonal changes in Brant use of the bay. Thus, migration patterns for estuarine bird species might be shaped by latitudinal gradients in both food phenology and seasonal tidal patterns. /// Los gansos que nidifican en el rtico dependen de nutrientes adquiridos durante la migracin de la primavera para reproducirse, por lo que deberan intentar maximizar la adquisicin de nutrientes cuando se encuentran en reas de escala migratoria. Investigamos el uso de sitios por parte de Branta bernicla nigricans en una localidad de escala migratoria importante-la Baha de Humboldt, California-para determinar si las aves seleccionan las reas de alimentacin disponibles que resultan ms provechosas. Durante la migracin, estas aves se alimentan casi exclusivamente del pasto Zostera marina, un alimento cuya disponibilidad est restringida por los ciclos diarios y estacionales de las mareas. Mapeamos la ubicacin de los sitios de forrajeo durante las mareas bajas y recolectamos muestras de Z. marina para describir los recursos alimenticios en 31 reas de la baha. Usamos anlisis de regresin binomial para evaluar las densidades de gansos en momentos con distintos niveles de la marea y en distintos perodos de la estacin como una funcin de la biomasa de alimento y su contenido nutricional, la distancia a sitios con gravilla y la elevacin del sustrato. Los resultados variaron de acuerdo al perodo de la estacin y la profundidad de la marea, pero las densidades de gansos se correlacionaron positivamente con el contenido de proteina y de calcio en Z. marina y con su biomasa. Los gansos usualmente se alimentaron en las reas de mayor profundidad permitida por las mareas, y ms cerca de los canales mareales, en donde la biomasa y el contenido nutricional de Z. marina fueron mayores, y donde la disminucin en la disponibilidad de alimento como consecuencia del forrajeo fue probablemente menos marcada. Durante las mareas bajas ms altas, los gansos se alimentaron ms cerca de lugares con gravilla que haban sido visitados previamente. Los ciclos de las mareas cambian durante la estada de los gansos en la baha, lo que permite el acceso por perodos ms prolongados y con mayor frecuencia a los prados ms profundos de Z. marina a medida que transcurre la primavera. Estos cambios estacionales en los patrones de la marea coinciden con cambios estacionales en el uso de la baha por parte de los gansos. Por lo tanto, los patrones de migracin de las especies de aves estuarinas podran estar moldeados por gradientes latitudinales en la fenologa del alimento y en los patrones estacionales de las mareas. 
10.2307/1369749|I studied the interaction between a brood parasite, the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis), and a large host, the Rufous-bellied Thrush (Turdus rufiventris), in the Pampas Region of Argentina. Shiny Cowbird eggs were observed in 34 out of 70 (48.6%) thrush nests throughout the host's breeding season. The main damage inflicted by Shiny Cowbirds was the puncture of host eggs, which occurred in 55.9% of the parasitized nests and significantly reduced the host clutch size. Because of the host's short incubation period, cowbird eggs did not hatch more than one day before the host young. This small advantage of earlier hatching was not enough to outweigh the large size difference between the parasitic chicks and the host young. In 68.7% of experimentally-created broods containing one host and one cowbird chick, the cowbird chicks died of starvation. I conclude that the Rufous-bellied Thrush is a particularly poor host for Shiny Cowbirds because of its large size and short incubation period. The high rate of parasitism, even of such a poor host, indicates little selectivity by Shiny Cowbird females.
10.2307/1368911|Size of cloacal protuberance, a putative criterion of male sex and breeding condition in many passerines, and number of sperm in cloacal lavages were determined in males of 21 passerine species (n = 275 individuals), at Foley, Missouri, 1 to 14 May 1984. The objective was to test the quantitative relations of these two measures and to compare their vernal temporal changes. Relative size of the cloacal protuberance (cp) was scored, providing a cloacal protuberance index (CPI: 0 to + + + +). Numbers of sperm in lavages without massage were estimated from counts using phase contrast microscopy of dried smears, giving a cloacal sperm index (CSI: 0 to 5.0 = 0 to 1.2 10
10.2307/1368726|Growth of Yellow-eyed Penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) chicks was monitored at six breeding areas over one season, and at two breeding areas over three seasons to describe the growth pattern and determine the degree of interseasonal and interlocality variation in growth rates. Growth parameters measured were weight, bill depth, flipper area, and lengths of culmen, skull, foot, central tail feathers, wing (humerus), and flipper. Data were fitted to logistic curves which were compared using a weighted least squares technique from the Maximum Likelihood Program (Ross et al. 1980). Observed seasonal and geographical variations in growth rates were small and appeared to reflect variations in food supply. Variations in growth rates of morphometric parameters were small or absent, with few differences in final fledging size. Dimensions with invariable growth rates were those that were smaller than average at maturity. Skull and foot + claw were least variable, implying high priority in the allocation of resources during development. Foot + claw was first to reach asymptotic size, followed by wing and flipper (area and length). This pattern of growth is consistent with that of other penguin species. Feet may grow quickly to allow heat loss until the flippers can function as thermal windows. Bill dimensions did not reach adult size by the end of the fledging period.
10.2307/1367132|Singing bird surveys are frequently used to estimate the difference in density between two or more populations of a species detected almost entirely by vocalizations. Typically, the statistical analysis assumes that individuals in the populations have the same average probability of being detected. We estimated how much difference in average detectabilities might occur owing to variation in singing rates during the breeding season. Presence or absence of song proved to be the best measure of detectability. Among 125 House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) in central Ohio, the probability of singing at least once during a 3-min period was 0.7 before mating, 0.5-0.6 from mating to the completion of egg-laying, 0.7 during incubation, and 0.5 or less thereafter. These probabilities were not detectably affected by season (1 June-15 July), time of day (first 5 h of daylight), or number of other nearby males (1 to 6). Our analysis shows that random phenological differences, such as an earlier season in one year as compared to another, might cause an error of up to 25% in the estimate of relative density. If several years of data are available, then the estimates of relative density will usually be more accurate. Substantial errors may still occur if changes in song phenology are density-dependent. Several methods have been designed to overcome the problem of unequal detectabilities, but most of them require the assumption that all birds close to the observer are detected; our study shows this assumption to be seriously in error for House Wrens. The study indicates that, in most cases, singing bird surveys should not be relied upon to produce accurate estimates of relative density.
10.2307/1368077| We studied the ability of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) to discriminate between two odors, ethyl butyrate and s-limonene, using a cardiac conditioning paradigm. Cowbirds not only learned to discriminate ethyl butyrate and s-limonene but they could also discriminate among concentrations of ethyl butyrate. Cowbirds could reliably discriminate the two odorants when vapor saturation was at least 0.6%. This suggests a discrimination sensitivity of at least 1.9  10
40072371|Wing loading, defined as the ratio of body mass to wing area, is a critical phenotype affecting flight. In the House Sparrow (
10.1525/cond.2009.090095|This study examines the relationship of carotenoid-based plumage coloration to mating and reproductive success in a migratory songbird, the American Redstart (
10.2307/1368981|The song of the Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes) varies in a complex fashion in both time and space. An average of 21 song types occurred in males recorded on at least two mornings; these song types included many variants. Syllables within songs were not arranged randomly, as those that belong to certain syllable types based on acoustic shape were more likely to be used in the introductory portion of the song. Probabilities of transition among syllable types for consecutive syllables were uneven but consistent between years. The repertoire of song types is probably not fixed but varies in its constituent song types both through the breeding season and between years.
4096514| We document the first records for Guyana of Roraiman Antbird (Percnostola [Schistocichla] "leucostigma" saturata), an endemic of the tepui highlands of southeastern Venezuela, northern Brazil and western Guyana. This form is well differentiated from nominate leucostigma (Spot-winged Antbird) of the Guianan lowlands in morphology, vocalizations, and genetics, and replaces it both altitudinally and ecologically. The two taxa are distributed parapatrically on the continuously forested northeastern slopes of the eastern tepuis, and they almost certainly come into contact, yet there is no evidence of intermediacy. We recommend that saturata be treated as a distinct species of Percnostola, and consider its' origin in the light of various models of speciation in the tepuis. /// En este trabajo documentamos los primeros registros para Guyana de Percnostola (Schistocichla) "leucostigma" saturata, un hormiguero end mico de las montaas del sureste de Venezuela, norte de Brazil y oeste de Guyana. Esta forma se diferencia notablemente en morfologi, vocalizaciones y gentica de P. l. leucostigma, presente en las tierras bajas de las Guyanas, y la reemplaza altitudinal y ecolgicamente. Los dos taxa tienen distribuciones paraptricas en los bosques continuos de las laderas noreste de los tepuis del este, y casi con seguridad estn en contacto, aunque no hay seales de hibridizacin. Recomendamos que saturata sea tratada como una especie distinta de Percnostola, y discutimos su origen considerando varios modelos de especiacin en los tepuis. 
40072326|Until recently, a major gap has existed in our knowledge regarding Mexican bird information from the Real Expedicin Botnica a Nueva Espaa in the late 1700s. This expedition (1787-1803) was commanded by Martn de Sess; the Mexican scientist Jos Mariano Mocio joined the group in 1790, but his ornithological findings were never published and have long been considered lost. However, study of the Sess-Mocio ornithological results began in 1979 with the appearance of a small collection of original paintings, apparently from the expedition. Later, in 1997, unpublished manuscripts were discovered in the library of the Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales, Madrid that included descriptions of many bird species, again apparently Sess-Mocio material. These discoveries, covering an important portion of the overall ornithological results of the expedition, make possible a broader study of the Sess-Mocio ornithology: a taxonomic list using modern nomenclature, an analysis of the correspondence between the paintings and the manuscripts, and conclusions regarding the provenance of those materials. Of a total of 83 paintings available, we were able to identify 78 to species, and 5 only to family. In the manuscripts, 290 species were treated, but for 27, the descriptions were fragmentary and insufficient for identification; of the remaining 263 species, we arrived at a species-level identification for 242, and identified the remainder to genus (19) or family (2). The recent discovery of these ornithological texts and paintings offers a unique view of the history of ornithology as well as of the environmental history of Mexico. /// Hasta hace poco, exista un gran hueco en el conocimiento de las aves estudiadas por los miembros de la Real Expedicin Botnica a Nueva Espaa, comandada por Martn de Sess, que se llev a cabo entre 1787 y 1803, a la que se incorpor el cientfico mexicano Jos Mariano Mocio en 1790. El estudio de los resultados ornitolgicos empieza a partir de que una coleccin de lminas originales realizadas por los pintores de la expedicin a Nueva Espaa fue identificada en Barcelona, Espaa, en 1979. Posteriormente, en 1997, se localizaron en el Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales de Madrid, los manuscritos inditos corresponientes a las descripciones de numerosas especies de aves procedentes de la expedicin. El contar ahora con las lminas y los manuscritos, nos permite presentar una lista taxonmica, desde el punto de vista moderno, de las aves descritas en esos manuscritos y lminas y analizar si existe una correspondencia entre ambas fuentes de informacin. Un total de 83 lminas estuvieron disponibles, de stas se logr identificar a todas hasta algun nivel taxonmico; de ellas 78 fueron identificadas a nivel de especie y 5 solamente a familia. En los manuscritos se encontraron a 290 especies, de las cuales 27 contenan una descripcin demasiado breve e insuficiente para ser identificada; para el nmero restante (263 especies), logramos hacer una identificacin confiable hasta especie de 242, a gnero de 19 y a familia de 2. El descubrimiento de los textos ornitolgicos y la existencia de ilustraciones originales ofrecen una vista nica de la historia de la ornitoloa, as como de la historia del medio ambiente de Mxico en general.
1369814| Juvenile Nesospiza buntings measured 7-11 weeks after hatching were compared with the sizes of their parents to estimate the heritability (h
10.2307/1367560|Curve-billed Thrashers and Long-billed Thrashers were studied in Live Oak County, Texas, during the summers of 1977 and 1978. Curve-billed Thrashers nested and foraged mostly within open habitats, although they also nested in dense chaparral if clearings were nearby. Long-billed Thrashers nested and foraged exclusively within dense chaparral. Curve-billed Thrashers often nested in exposed sites whereas Long-billed Thrashers always nested in shelter. Curve-billed Thrashers constructed deeper nests, incubated their eggs for less time each day, and brooded their young for many more days than did Long-billed Thrashers. Curve-billed Thrashers had greater reproductive success (37%) than did Long-billed Thrashers (26%). This difference was attributed to the frequent use of Yucca for nest support by Curve-billed Thrashers. Nest success was not significantly affected by nest height, brood size, or the date when the nest was initiated. Snakes were the primary predators of thrasher eggs and nestlings. The roles of the sexes of Curve-billed Thrashers were examined during the breeding cycle. Females incubated and fed the nestlings significantly more often than males. Only females brooded the young. Male participation varied greatly among pairs and between nesting attempts.
1370685| Previous work has shown that the quantity or quality of food affects the degree of asymmetry in bilateral body traits in adult birds, but so far there is no evidence that this is the case in early phases of growth too. I studied asymmetry of tarsus length of nestling Blue Tits (Parus caeruleus) in relation to supplemental feeding. I offered food, in the form of mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) and wax moth (Galleria mellonella) larvae, to the adults during the brood-rearing period. The parents consumed the extra food themselves and fed the brood an amount corresponding to one-third of the brood's total food intake. Food supplementation resulted in reduced asymmetry of nestling tarsus length, indicating that body asymmetry in early phases of life, not only in adult birds, depends on energy or protein intake. /// Investigaciones previas han demostrado que la cantidad o calidad de alimento disponible afecta al grado de asimetra bilateral de rasgos corporales en aves adultas, pero hasta ahora no se ha demostrado si este proceso tambin sucede en las fases tempranas del crecimiento. En este estudio investigu la asimetra de la longitud del tarso en polluelos de Parus caeruleus con relacin a la administracin de una dieta suplementaria. Se ofreci alimento a los adultos durante el periodo de cra en forma de larvas de escarabajo de la harina y larvas de polilla de la cera. Los padres consumieron el alimento adicional y entregaron una cantidad correspondiente a un tercio de la ingesta total de alimento de los polluelos. El suplemento de alimento result en una reduccin significativa en la asimetra de la longitud del tarso de los polluelos, indicando que el estrs ambiental mediado por el comportamiento de aprovisionamiento efectuado por los padres afecta a la asimetra del desarrollo corporal en fases tempranas de la vida. 
10.2307/1369933|We investigated the nesting ecology of Townsend's Warblers (Dendroica townsendi) from 1993-1995 in an unfragmented boreal forest along the lower slopes of the Chugach Mountains in southcentral Alaska. We examined habitat characteristics of nest sites in relation to factors influencing reproductive success. Almost all territory-holding males (98%, n = 40) were successful in acquiring mates. Nest success was 54% (n = 24 nests), with nest survivorship greater during incubation (87%) than during the nestling period (62%). Most nesting failure (80%) was attributable to predation, which occurred primarily during the nestling period. Fifty-five percent of nests containing nestlings were infested with the larvae of bird blow-flies (Protocalliphora braueri and P. spenceri), obligatory bloodfeeding parasites. The combined effects of Protocalliphora infestation and inclement weather apparently resulted in nestling mortality in 4 of the 24 nests. Nests that escaped predation were placed in white spruce with larger diameter than those lost to predation; nests that escaped blow-fly parasitism were located higher in nest trees and in areas with lower densities of woody shrubs than those that were infested. The availability of potential nest sites with these key features may be important in determining reproductive success in Townsend's Warblers.
1370654| The Pale-headed Brush-Finch (Atlapetes pallidiceps) is threatened with extinction due to loss of habitat. The only remnant population consists of 30-35 pairs and is confined to a single valley in the Andes of southwestern Ecuador. We investigated the habitat types used by this species in order to quantify the amount of available suitable habitat. The species used semiopen habitat types featuring a mosaic of dense scrub 2-4 m tall and grassy patches. Low continuous scrub was also used in larger proportions than on average available; forest and open country were not included in territories. Suitable habitat covered 28% of the area, and 16% was still available for new brush-finch territories. We identified a minimum of seven coherent patches that could support eight further pairs of the species. The valley can thus potentially support 40-50 pairs. The occupied habitat as described here should serve as a guideline in searching for new habitat. /// Atlapetes pallidiceps es una especie endmica a un slo valle en el suroeste del Ecuador. La especie est en peligro de extinccin debido a la prdida del hbitat. En este estudio analizamos los tipos de hbitat ocupados de Atlapetes pallidiceps con la intencin de evaluar la cantidad de hbitat adecuado para una expansin de la poblacin. Atlapetes pallidiceps ocup hbitats semi-abiertos con un mosaico de matorral denso (2-4 m de altura) y lugares con vegetacin herbcea. La especie tambin ocup matorrales bajos continuos, mientras que los territorios no incluyeron bosques ni terrenos abiertos. Los hbitats adecuados cubrieron el 28% del rea de estudio, y el 16% estuvo todava disponible para el establecimiento de territorios nuevos. Identificamos un mnimo de siete parches coherentes que podran sostener ocho parejas ms del Atlapetes pallidiceps. Por lo tanto, el rea tiene el potencial para soportar 40-50 parejas. Sera recomendable aplicar nuestra clasificacin de los tipos de hbitat ocupados como gua para la bsqueda de nuevas reas para este especie. 
4096486|We used data from Northern Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) territories to model the effects of habitat (particularly intermediate-aged forest stand types), climate, and nonhabitat covariates (i.e., age, sex) on owl reproductive rate and apparent survival in southwestern Oregon. Our best model for reproductive rate included an interaction between a cyclic, annual time trend and male breeding experience, with higher reproductive rates in even years compared to odd, particularly for males with previous breeding experience. Reproductive rate was also negatively related to the amount of winter precipitation and positively related to the proportion of old-growth forest near the owl territory center. Apparent survival was not associated with age, sex, climate or any of the intermediate-aged forest types, but was positively associated with the proportion of older forest near the territory center in a pseudothreshold pattern. The quadratic structure of the proportion of nonhabitat farther from the nest or primary roost site was also part of our best survival model. Survival decreased dramatically when the amount of nonhabitat exceeded ~50%. Habitat fitness potential estimates
10.2307/3247731|We determined the rate of conspecific nest parasitism (CNP) that occurred in populations of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus), and Brewer's Blackbirds (Euphagus cyanocephalus), and tested the hypothesis that females whose nests are destroyed during laying may deposit physiologically committed, subsequent eggs in nearby conspecific nests. CNP occurred in only 0.5% of Red-winged Blackbird nests, in 1.1% of Yellow-headed Blackbird nests, and in about 3% of Brewer's Blackbird nests. Nearby nests were destroyed during the laying period within three days of detected CNPs in less than 50% of the cases for both Red-winged and Yellow-headed Blackbirds. We discuss possible options of female songbirds for resorbing, aborting or laying physiologically committed eggs after their nests are destroyed during laying, and the potential costs and benefits to these females of CNP.
1370545| Carotenoid pigmentation in birds' plumage is considered an honest indicator of phenotypic quality, and thus a target of sexual selection. But carotenoids also fulfill essential physiological functions, and therefore, carotenoids should only appear in plumage if they are in excess of those needed physiologically. We explored the presence of carotenoid-based plumage coloration in columbids and its association with diet and sexual dichromatism using a comparative analysis. We found that carotenoid plumage pigmentation appeared three times independently in doves, and that these events were always associated with frugivorous feeding habits. This suggests that expression of carotenoid-based plumage color in granivorous species may be constrained by the scarcity of carotenoids in their diet. However, more than half of the frugivorous species lack carotenoid-pigmented plumage, indicating that rich dietary sources of these compounds are a necessary but not sufficient cause for their expression in plumage. Analyzing 12 pairs of sister taxa, we found that plumage dichromatism was neither associated with the amount of carotenoid pigment present in the plumage nor with the sexual dimorphism in carotenoid-pigmented plumage. Although the presence of carotenoid-based plumage coloration has been related to sexual selection in several taxa, we failed to show such an association in columbids. /// Los pigmentos carotenoides en el plumaje de las aves son considerados indicadores honestos de la calidad fenotpica y, por lo tanto, objetos de seleccin sexual. Sin embargo, los carotenoides tambin cumplen funciones fisiolgicas esenciales, por lo cual aquellos que se expresan en el plumaje deberan estar en exceso de los utilizados a nivel fisiolgico. Exploramos la presencia de carotenoides en el plumaje de las palomas y su asociacin con la dieta y el dicromatismo sexual usando un anlisis comparativo. Encontramos que el plumaje carotenoide apareci tres veces independientemente en palomas, y que estos eventos estaban siempre asociados a frugivora. Esto sugiere que la expresin de carotenoides en el plumaje de especies granvoras puede estar restringida por la escasez de estos pigmentos en la dieta. Sin embargo, ms de la mitad de las especies frugvoras carecen de plumaje carotenoide, indicando que alimentos ricos en este compuesto son una causa necesaria pero no suficiente para su expresin en el plumaje. Analizando 12 pares de taxa hermanos, encontramos que el dicromatismo no estaba asociado ni a la cantidad de pigmentos carotenoides presentes en el plumaje ni al dimorfismo sexual de plumaje carotenoide. Aunque la presencia de plumaje carotenoide ha sido relacionada con la seleccin sexual en numerosos grupos, no encontramos una asociacin similar en palomas. 
10.2307/1369796|We examined Bar-tailed Godwits (Limosa lapponica), a long-distance migratory shorebird, for evidence of dehydration toward the end of their 4,300-km migratory flight from West Africa to the Dutch Wadden Sea. Bar-tailed Godwits are ideal subjects for research on flight range constraints because they can readily be caught in migratory flight. Because godwits are capable of long nonstop travel, we hypothesized that they are physiologically adapted to minimize en route water loss, and therefore, do not experience water imbalance under standard migratory conditions. To test this hypothesis, we compared the hydration state of flying Bar-tailed Godwits at the end of a long bout of migratory flight to that of recently-landed godwits. Flying godwits were hydrated to the same degree as birds with free access to water, suggesting that godwits maintain water balance during migratory flight. To corroborate these empirical results, we ran a theoretical simulation of flight-in-curred loss of water and energy in a male Bar-tailed Godwit based on the published model by Klaassen et al. (1999). When a low body drag is assumed, model output suggests that Bar-tailed Godwits flying at altitudes ranging from sea level to 3,000 m will avoid dehydration, and that flight at about 3,000 m will result in the longest possible flight range.
10.2307/1369539|To study the temporal-spatial patterns of food caching in two sympatric shrike species (Northern Shrike Lanius excubitor and Red-backed Shrike L. collurio) in the northwestern region of the Iberian Peninsula, I sampled cached prey. Northern Shrikes cached food mainly during the non-breeding period, and Red-backed Shrikes during the breeding period, depending on prey availability and energy requirement. Rate of food cached by Red-backed Shrikes increased as number of nestlings increased. Most prey cached by Northern Shrikes was used within 9 days. Red-backed Shrikes usually utilized their caches within 24 hr, mainly at dawn and dusk. Northern Shrikes used 62% of cached prey, and Red-backed Shrikes 88%. At least 6% of the prey cached by Red-backed Shrikes was kleptoparasitized, chiefly by wasps. Hawthorn (Crataegus sp.) and blackthorn (Prunus sp.) shrubs with cylindrical, thin and long thorns were preferred for caching, whereas rose (Rosa sp.) and bramble (Rubus sp.) shrubs with laterally flattened, wide and short thorns were avoided by both species. Red-backed Shrikes scattered their caches. The distance between the nest and the prey cached by the Red-backed Shrike depended on the availability of suitable thorny shrubs in the territory, with a tendency to cache close to the nest. Shrikes chose the upper and inner parts of the shrubs for caching, presumably to hide the food from kleptoparasites. I found an association between prey color and color of cache-shrub, suggesting that cryptic coloration influenced choice of cache site.
10.2307/1368847| Efforts to determine the factors responsible for the long-term population decline of the Atitlan Grebe (Podilymbus gigas), a species restricted to Lake Atitln in Guatemala, led to the discovery that the only Podilymbus species present on Lake Atitln in 1986-1987 was the Pied-billed Grebe (P. podiceps). Podilymbus gigas is similar to P. podiceps in color and form but is almost twice the weight, and is reported to be flightless. All Podilymbus grebes at Lake Atitln in 1986-1987 appeared to be the same size, and the body masses and bill measurements of six captured grebes were within the range of P. podiceps, but not that of P. gigas. Grebe eggs measured at both Lake Atitln and Laguna del Pino, another Guatemalan lake, were similar to each other and to eggs of P. podiceps from North America. The territorial calls of male Podilymbus grebes recorded at Lake Atitln, Laguna del Pino and West Toqua Lake in Minnesota did not differ significantly. It thus appears that P. gigas no longer occurs on Lake Atitln and has been replaced, perhaps through competition or hybridization, by P. podiceps. 
4096522| We report first-year survival for 34 captive-reared Puerto Rican Parrots (Amazona vittata) released in the Caribbean National Forest, Puerto Rico between 2000 and 2002. The purpose of the releases were to increase population size and the potential number of breeding individuals of the sole extant wild population, and to refine release protocols for eventual reintroduction of a second wild population elsewhere on the island. After extensive prerelease training, we released 10 parrots in 2000, 16 parrots in 2001, and eight parrots in 2002 ranging in age from 1-4 years old. All birds were equipped with radio-transmitters to monitor survival. The overall first-year survival estimate for the 34 parrots was 41% (CI = 22%-61%). Only one parrot died within the first week postrelease, with most (94%) surviving for at least eight weeks after release. Most (54%) documented mortalities were due to raptor predation, which claimed 21% of all released parrots. A captive-reared bird (male, age one), released in 2001, paired with a wild female and fledged two young in 2004. We also calculated survival based on 0% and 50% of observed predation losses and found hypothetical survival rates of 72% and 54%, respectively. Rigorous prerelease training and acclimation was believed to have improved initial postrelease parrot survival, and releasing mixed age-class groups suggests the potential for shortening the time to recruitment. /// Determinamos la supervivencia de 34 individuos de cotorras Amazona vittata criados en cautiverio y liberados en el Bosque Nacional del Caribe, Puerto Rico entre el 2000 y el 2002. El propsito de las liberaciones era aumentar el tamao de la poblacin y el nmero potencial de individuos reproductores en la nica poblacin silvestre remanente, y refinar los protocolos de liberacin para eventualmente establecer una segunda poblacin silvestre en la isla. Despus de un adiestramiento extensivo, liberamos 10 cotorras en el 2000, 16 cotorras en el 2001, y ocho cotorras en el 2002 fluctuando en edades entre uno y cuatro aos. Cada individuo se liber con un radio transmisor para determinar su supervivencia. La tasa general de supervivencia para 34 cotorras despus de un ao fue de 41% (IC = 22-61%). Slo una cotorra muri durante la primera semana post-liberacin, con la mayora (94%) sobreviviendo por lo menos ocho semanas despus de liberadas. La mayora (54%) de la mortandad se debi a la depredacin por aves rapaces, la que reclam 21% de todas las cotorras liberadas. Una cotorra criada en cautiverio (macho, un ao de edad), y liberada en el 2001, se apare con una hembra silvestre y produjeron dos volantones en el 2004. Reduciendo la mortandad por aves rapaces informada en este estudio en un 100%, o en un 50%, result en tasas hipotticas de supervivencia del 72% y 54%, respectivamente. Creemos que el adiestramiento y la aclimatacin rigurosa pre-liberacin mejoraron la supervivencia inicial post-liberacin, y que la liberacin de grupos de cotorras de edades mixtas sugiere el potencial de acortar el tiempo de reclutamiento. 
10.2307/1368988|We studied behavior of broods of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) during five summers between 1987 and 1993, a period in which the local breeding population increased >3-fold. Goslings spent more time foraging than adults of either sex, while adult males spent more time alert and less time foraging than adult females. Percentage of time spent alert was positively correlated with brood size for adult males but not adult females. Foraging time for all age and sex classes increased with date following hatch within years. Foraging time increased and time spent alert decreased between 1987 and 1993 for both adult males and adult females. The trend in foraging behavior for adults is consistent with an hypothesis of declining food availability at higher brood densities and declining alert behavior by adults has implications for prefledging survival of young.
10.2307/1368792|This survey of patterns of mitochondrial DNA variation in the Tufted Titmouse (Parus bicolor), Plain Titmouse (P. inornatus), and Bridled Titmouse (P. wollweberi) provides a critical assessment of genetic divergence in a well-defined taxonomic hierarchy of passerine birds. Maximum divergence between coexisting haplotypes was 0.16% and no more than two haplotypes were found in a local population sample. Divergence distances between taxa were calculated from matrices of 191 shared restriction fragments and 128 shared restriction sites. Distances calculated from proportions of shared sites tended to be higher than distances calculated from shared fragments. Divergence distances between species suggest origins in the Pliocene (wollweberi vs. bicolor and inornatus) and in the early Pleistocene (bicolor vs. inornatus). Comparisons of allopatric, conspecific populations confirm the low divergence value reported by Avise and Zink (1988) for P. b. bicolor versus P. b. atricristatus. Our calculated distance (0.006) for these two semispecies was the same as the distance between P. w. wollweberi versus P. w. phillipsi. In contrast, coastal inornatus (transpositus) exhibit species level divergence (p = 0.05) from interior inornatus (ridgwayi). This result supports the conclusions of other recent studies that suggest a long historical separation of coastal California populations from sister taxa in the Great Basin.
1370111| Nest success of Snowy Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) was estimated at six sites in San Diego County, California, to determine the effects of habitat characteristics and social factors on predation risk. Egg predation was expected to be lower for plovers nesting among Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) because of benefits associated with nesting under the "protective umbrella" of a colonial species. Snowy Plovers nested adjacent to objects and in areas with more vegetation cover than random sites in beach and fill habitats and in areas with more debris cover in beach and salt pan habitats. Estimated nest success from 1994-1997 was 50%, and most predation was attributed to corvids, primarily Common Ravens (Corvus corax). Social factors, including distance to nearest Least Tern and Snowy Plover nests, predicted nest success whereas habitat characteristics did not. Nest success was greatest for plovers nesting closest to an active tern nest and nesting at intermediate distances to conspecifics. Nest success also varied among years and sites, with two sites consistently less successful over the four years. Nests within tern colonies received some mitigation of egg predation. Plover nests initiated prior to the arrival of Least Terns were less likely to hatch eggs than later nests; nevertheless, Snowy Plovers in southern California initiated nesting well before Least Terns. /// Para determinar los efectos de las caractersticas del hbitat y factores sociales sobre el riesgo de depredacin, estim el xito de las nidadas de Charadrius alexandrinus en seis sitios del Condado de San Diego, California. Se esperaba que la depredacin de huevos fuera menor para los C. alexandrinus que anidan junto a Sterna antillarum debido a los beneficios de anidar bajo un "paraguas protector" de una especie colonial. En playas y hbitats rellenados, C. alexandrinus anid con mayor frecuencia en lugares adyacentes a objetos y en reas con mayor cobertura de vegetacin que en sitios aleatorios y en reas con mayor cobertura de desechos vegetales en playas y salinas. El xito estimado de las nidadas entre 1994-1997 fue de 50%, y la mayor tasa de depredacin fue atribuida a crvidos, principalmente a la especie Corvus corax. Factores sociales como distancia al nido ms cercano de S. antillarum y C. alexandrinus predijeron el xito de la nidada, mientras que las caractersticas del hbitat no lo hicieron. El xito de la nidada fue mayor para los individuos de C. alexandrinus que nidificaron ms cerca de un nido activo de S. antillarum y que nidificaron a distancias intermedias de conespecficos. El xito de la nidada tambin vari entre aos y sitios. Dos sitios presentaron consistentemente un menor xito durante los cuatro aos de estudio. Los nidos ubicados dentro de la colonia presentaron una leve disminucin en la depredacin de huevos. Los huevos de nidos de C. alexandrinus iniciados antes de la llegada de S. antillarum tuvieron una menor probabilidad de eclosin que huevos de nidos ms tardos. Sin embargo, C. alexandrinus comenz a nidificar bastante antes que S. antillarum en California del Sur. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120043|Considered endangered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Golden-cheeked Warbler (
10.2307/1367822|Reproduction and habitat use of American Coots (Fulica americana) were investigated on four study areas in the major elevational areas of Colorado, one in the eastern plains, two in the high mountain valleys, and one west of the Continental Divide. Nests were started from mid-April to mid-July; peak initiation dates ranged from 25 April to 12 June. Coots at high elevations had a shortened territory establishment-to-nest initiation period. Eggs hatched from mid-May through early August with peak hatching from 30 May to 4 July. We found 354 nests, and eggs in 284 nests hatched. Nesting and hatching success, respectively, ranged from 68.6 to 84.9% and 85.2 to 92.4%, with more nest failures and eggs lost per nest than expected at the high altitude areas. Average clutch size was lower at high altitude and decreased at all elevations as the season progressed. Predators caused most nest (64.3%) and egg (45.9%) loss. All nests were over water and most (99.7%) were in cattail (Typha spp.) or tule bulrush (Scirpus acutus). Early-nesting coots (75.6%) used dead, remaining vegetation for nest cover; later nesters used live cover as it became available. Measurements of nest site vegetation height, concealment, water depth, and distance to open water were variable and depended on local conditions. Breeding densities ranged from 10.2 to 33.1 successful nests/ha of cattail and bulrush and were independent of altitude. Intermingling of open water and emergent cover influenced the number of nesting coots.
10.2307/1368961|We censused 26 acorn-bearing trees of six oak species for Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) during fall of 1985 on the University of Arkansas campus. The following spring we presented six piles, each containing 20 acorns from a different oak species, to free-ranging jays to determine acorn preference in spring. Trees censused and acorns presented were from both black oak (BO) and white oak (WO) subgenera, which differ in size, percent fat, tannin content, and germination time. In fall, Blue Jays were observed removing acorns from three species of oaks with small acorns, particularly those of willow oaks (BO, Quercus phellos), and were rarely observed in trees of three other oaks with large acorns. When offered a choice of acorns from six oak species in spring, Blue Jays showed a preference, based on Ivlev's electivity index, for small acorns, particularly those of pin oaks (BO, Q. palustris), and an avoidance of large acorns. Thus, small size appears to be an important trait associated with acorn preference in Blue Jays. Acorns of the introduced English oak (WO, Q. robur), which are preferred by Euorpean Jays (Garrulus glandarius) (Bossema 1979), also were avoided in spring by Blue Jays, suggesting that familiarity may be a general component of acorn selection by jays.
10.1525/cond.2012.110111|The lining material is a key element of bird nests, serving primarily as insulation for the adult, eggs, and/or chicks, but collection of such material has an energetic cost. Our study investigated the nest-building effort of four species of tit (Paridae) in an English wood by quantifying the use of colored wool-like artificial material in nest lining from 2000 to 2010. We recorded the distances that birds carried the material from source to nest for each nest as an indirect measure of the energetic cost of collecting nest material to individual birds. Birds did not always use nest material from the nearest source to their nest, and some birds collected material from two, three or four well-separated sources. There was no detectable color preference in choice of material, and few birds traveled more than 200 m to gather the material. Use of the material appeared to depend on the species. Within defined areas around material dispensers not all individual Great Tits (
4151018| Survival and reproduction directly affect population growth rate (), making  a fundamental parameter for assessing habitat quality. We used field data, literature review, and a computer simulation to predict annual productivity and  for several species of landbirds breeding in floodplain and upland forests in the Midwestern United States. We monitored 1735 nests of 27 species; 760 nests were in the uplands and 975 were in the floodplain. Each type of forest habitat (upland and floodplain) was a source habitat for some species. Despite a relatively low proportion of regional forest cover, the majority of species had stable or increasing populations in all or some habitats, including six species of conservation concern. In our search for a simple analog for , we found that only adult apparent survival, juvenile survival, and annual productivity were correlated with  daily nest survival and relative abundance estimated from point counts were not. Survival and annual productivity are among the most costly demographic parameters to measure and there does not seem to be a low-cost alternative. In addition, our literature search revealed that the demographic parameters needed to model annual productivity and  were unavailable for several species. More collective effort across North America is needed to fill the gaps in our knowledge of demographic parameters necessary to model both annual productivity and . Managers can use habitat-specific predictions of annual productivity to compare habitat quality among species and habitats for purposes of evaluating management plans. /// La supervivencia y la reproduccin afectan directamente a la tasa de crecimiento poblacional (), lo cual hace que  sea un parmetro fundamental para determinar la calidad del habitat. Utilizamos datos de campo, una revisin de la literatura y una simulacin computacional para predecir la productividad anual y  para varias especies de ayes terrestres que se reproducen en los bosques de planicies de inundacin y de tierras altas en el centro-oeste de Estados Unidos. Monitoreamos 1735 nidos pertenecientes a 27 especies; 760 nidos estuvieron en las tierras altas y 975 en las planicies de inundacin. Cada tipo de habitat de bosque (tierras altas y planicies de inundacin) fue un habitat fuente para algunas especies. A pesar de una proporcin de cobertura de bosque relativamente baja a nivel regional, la mayora de las especies (incluyendo seis con problemas de conservacin) tuvieron poblaciones estables o en crecimiento en todos o algunos habitats. En nuestra bsqueda de un anlogo simple de , encontramos que solo la supervivencia aparente de los adultos, la supervivencia de los juveniles y la productividad anual se correlacionaron con 2, mientras que la supervivencia diana de los nidos y la abundancia relativa estimada a travs de puntos de conteo no se correlacionaron con . La supervivencia y la productividad anual son unos de los parmetros demogrficos ms costosos de medir y no parece existir una alternativa de bajo costo. Adems, nuestra bflsqueda en la literatura revel que los parmetros demogrficos necesarios para modelar productividad anual y  no se encuentran disponibles para varias especies. Se requiere un esfuerzo colectivo mayor a travs de toda Norte America para poder ilenar los vaclos en nuestro conocimiento acerca de los parmetros demogrficos necesarios para modelar la productividad anual y . Es posible utilizar predicciones hbitat-especIficas de la productividad anual para comparar la calidad del habitat entre especies y hbitats con el propsito de evaluar planes de manejo. 
10.1525/cond.2012.100246|During its fall migration stopover on mudflats in the upper Bay of Fundy, Canada, the Semipalmated Sandpiper (
10.2307/1367421| Eruptive movements of the Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana) were observed during the late summer and fall of 1977, 1978 and 1979 in northern Utah and adjacent states. Over 2,000 emigrating nutcrackers were seen during these periods. Eruptions began in mid to late August, about the time nutcrackers began foraging on developing conifer cones, and continued until early October. Nearly all nutcrackers traveled in small, loose flocks (x = 10.1 individuals). During 1977-1978, most emigrating nutcrackers appeared to winter in pion-juniper woodlands of Utah and adjacent states and no nutcrackers were reported outside their normal breeding range. A northward movement of nutcrackers, presumably the same population observed emigrating southward in fall 1977, was noted in summer 1978. Evidence for breeding of nutcrackers on their wintering areas is presented. A compartmental model summarizes current knowledge on the temporal and spatial aspects of nutcracker emigration. 
40306128|For sit-and-wait predators, a key factor influencing foraging decisions is the ability to detect and track prey, which is expected to vary with the physical and light properties of the environment. We assessed how changes in visual and physical prey availability altered perch selection and visual search activity (head-movement rate and bout length) in the Black Phoebe (
10.2307/1367378|Tritiated water was used to estimate water turnover rates and total body water volumes (TBW) in free-living Chukars (Alectoris chukar) in the Negev Desert of Israel during late autumn and winter. Water turnover rates varied widely, ranging from 66.8 to 420.1 ml kg<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> (n = 25). They were lowest before winter rains, averaging 15.0% (SD = 1.0; n = 17) of TBW in the dry autumn and early winter, and 45.3% (SD = 10.9; n = 8) in late winter. This seasonal increase in water turnover rate may reflect a dietary shift from dry foods to succulent green vegetation, the growth of which was induced by winter rains. Water turnover was much more variable among wild Chukars than in captive birds from the same population kept in a controlled environment. TBW averaged 68.5% (SD = 4.1; n = 58) of body mass in free-living birds and was significantly elevated during cold, wet weather.
10.2307/1368280|Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors) eggs from 172 nests were analyzed to determine how organic composition was affected by clutch size, laying sequence, nest attempt, laying date, and egg size. On average, eggs weighed 28.1 g and were 46% yolk and 44% albumen. Eggs contained 3.6 g lipid and 3.2 g protein almost equally distributed between yolk and albumen. Yolk increased a disproportionate amount and the proportion of albumen tended to decrease with increased egg mass. Consequently, large eggs contained proportionately more lipid than small eggs. Shell decreased in proportion with increasing egg mass. For most egg traits 60 to 80% of the variation occurred between clutches rather than within clutches. Teal eggs did not vary in composition in relation to clutch size, laying sequence, nest attempt, or the timing of laying on either a seasonal or yearly basis. Eggs in renests weighted 0.8 g less than eggs from the first clutch of the same females; however, this disparity was not reflected in differences in lipid or lean dry mass for the collected eggs of known renesters.
10.1525/cond.2012.110066|In the House Wren (
10.2307/1369718|Human intrusion can be a serious problem for birds because it can cause displacement, prevent access to resources, and reduce reproduction and survival. The factors that influence avian tolerance to intrusion are poorly understood. We studied passerine responses to intrusion in Wyoming montane forests during the breeding season by using two indices of intrusion tolerance: detectability period, the amount of time that a bird remains near its initial flush point; and approach distance, how close one can get to a bird before it flushes. A solitary observer experimentally approached focal individuals and recorded detectability period, approach distance, the seasonal and daily timing of intrusion, number of nearby conspecifics, number of nearby heterospecific individuals, and surrounding vegetation conditions. Using data from the literature, we also assessed influences of migratory status, body mass, conspicuousness, and height above the ground at which species are active during the breeding season. Detectability period was significantly shorter, indicating intrusion tolerance was lower, when fewer conspecifics were nearby. Approach distance was significantly longer, indicating tolerance was lower, for more-conspicuous species and for species that are active closer to the ground. Effects of other variables studied were not significant. These results demonstrate that social and biological factors can influence tolerance to intrusion. Intrusion-induced behaviors such as nest abandonment and decreased nest attentiveness have led to reduced reproduction and survival in species that are intolerant of intrusion. With knowledge of factors that influence tolerance, the risk of disturbing birds that are sensitive to intrusion could be reduced.
10.2307/1368113| Egg temperatures (T<sub>egg</sub>) and nest attentiveness were measured in Junco phaeonotus breeding at high altitude (2,560 m) in the Chiricahua Mountains of Arizona. Mean T<sub>egg</sub> for six nests was significantly higher at night than during the day (35.8C vs. 34.9C). Attentiveness averaged 76.9% during the 13.90-hr active day. Females left the nest (off bout) an average of 0.97 times per hour. Off-bout frequency was highest early in the day, declining from 1.5 bouts/hr at dawn to about 0.7 bouts/hr at midday. Off-bout duration averaged 13.7  0.37 min (range = 3-44 min, n = 158), and tended to be longest during midday. T<sub>egg</sub> fell to an average of 29.1  2.1C (range = 17.6-36.0C) during off bouts. The minimum T<sub>egg</sub> during off bouts increased with embryo age. The junco's nest attentiveness pattern appears to be a compromise between two conflicting selection pressures--nest predation and egg cooling. 
10.2307/1367041|Fidelity to breeding territories was examined on 33 Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) territories in Oregon from 1973 to 1982 using the incidence of plumage dimorphism and mortality rates. Evidence suggested a high rate of return to previously occupied territories by females. The rate of change in the color morphs within territories among years was consistent with mortality rates alone. Alternative interpretations involving males' choice of mates with respect to female color and females' selection of habitat with respect to their color were explored. The first possibility, coupled with strong site fidelity by males could not be ruled out although it would require a high degree of color morph preference. No evidence for correlation between female territory selection and color was found. Plumage dimorphism among males occurred too seldom to permit evaluation of breeding site fidelity among males at the population level. Several distinctively marked males were seen, however, to return to previously occupied territories.
10.1525/cond.2012.110146|Conversion of natural grassland to cropland has been postulated as a cause for population declines among grassland birds. We evaluated nest-site habitat characteristics and landscape composition for three species of prairie-breeding shorebirds nesting across the agricultural landscape of prairie Canada. Nests of the Upland Sandpiper (
40072372|Alexander Skutch suggested that the threat of nest predation on tropical birds favors reduced activity near their nests. This hypothesis assumes that nest predation occurs during the day when adult birds are active, but few studies of tropical species have reported distributions of nest losses during the day-night cycle. We used thermistors placed in nests to record the time of nest predation events for species of understory rainforest birds during the incubation period. In our study, 14 of 21 nest-predation events (67%) occurred between 11:00 and 18:00 (EST), and none took place at night, between 19:00 and 06:00. Clearly, nest predation during incubation was primarily diurnal. Although a major premise of Skutch's hypothesis is supported, further research is needed to determine whether diurnal predators are attracted to nests by the movements of parent birds, begging of offspring, or other cues.
10.2307/1368568|Creching behavior of Brandt's Cormorant (Phalacrocorax penicillatus) chicks was studied at Southeast Farallon Island, California, in July and August 1984. Three stages of creching were described: (1) nest-site creches involved small chicks (10 to 25 days old) from adjacent nests huddling on nest sites before and just after parents stopped continuous attendance of chicks; (2) subcolony creches involved medium-sized chicks (over 20 days old) standing together between nest sites and on the periphery of natal subcolonies; and (3) fledgling creches involved large chicks (over 25 days old) from several subcolonies standing together outside of subcolonies and nearer to the ocean. Nest-site creches occurred mainly at night and probably have a thermoregulatory function. Fledgling creches occurred throughout the day and night and may facilitate fledging behaviors. Chicks in fledgling creches entered the ocean, swam, dove, bathed, and returned to these creches where they were fed by adults up to and beyond the time when they could fly.
10.2307/1369430|Estimation of lean mass and lipid levels in birds involves the derivation of predictive equations that relate morphological measurements and, more recently, total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) indices to known lean and lipid masses. Using cross-validation techniques, we evaluated the ability of several published and new predictive equations to estimate lean and lipid mass of Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) and White-rumped Sandpipers (C. fuscicollis). We also tested ideas of Morton et al. (1991), who stated that current statistical approaches to TOBEC methodology misrepresent precision in estimating body fat. Three published interspecific equations using TOBEC indices predicted lean and lipid masses of our sample of birds with average errors of 8-28% and 53-155%, respectively. A new two-species equation relating lean mass and TOBEC indices revealed average errors of 4.6% and 23.2% in predicting lean and lipid mass, respectively. New intraspecific equations that estimate lipid mass directly from body mass, morphological measurements, and TOBEC indices yielded about a 13% error in lipid estimates. Body mass and morphological measurements explained a substantial portion of the variance (about 90%) in fat mass of both species. Addition of TOBEC indices improved the predictive model more for the smaller than for the larger sandpiper. TOBEC indices explained an additional 7.8% and 2.6% of the variance in fat mass and reduced the minimum breadth of prediction intervals by 0.95 g (32%) and 0.39 g (13%) for Semipalmated and White-rumped Sandpipers, respectively. The breadth of prediction intervals for models used to predict fat levels of individual birds must be considered when interpreting the resultant lipid estimates.
10.1525/cond.2010.100062|Birds that migrate to the neotropics have experienced dramatic population decreases over the last few decades. Although the transformation of their wintering habitats has been related to such decreases, several neotropical migrants are tolerant of human disturbances and winter in human-altered habitat. We surveyed a neotropical city broadly to evaluate how migrant birds respond to urbanization, finding that urbanization has a negative effect on communities of migrant birds: species richness and density of migrants decreased with urbanization. Although we recorded a significant decrease in the total number of individual neotropical migrants toward the center of the city, we found no differences among species when we assessed possible effects of the distance from the city's edge by species. Only tree cover had a positive significant relationship with both species richness and bird abundance. Our results show that urbanization can have an even greater negative effect on communities of neotropical migrant birds than for those of resident birds. However, some migrants that used the urban habitats we studied are of conservation concern, indicating that urbanization can act as a two-edged sword, affecting several migratory species negatively while offering winter habitats to others.
4500957| Species richness and composition of Neotropical forest bird communities vary spatially at both large and small scales, but previous comparisons based on 100 ha plots have not replicated plots within a region. I sampled birds in two 100 ha plots in lowland forest of eastern Ecuador to better understand how species richness and composition vary over smaller spatial scales. Birds were sampled in February and April of 2002-2005 (only in February in 2005). Plots were approximately 1.5 km apart in predominantly terra firme forest. A total of 319 species (285 and 281 per plot) from 43 families were represented in ~ 16 000 detections per plot; number of species and detections per sample averaged approximately 185 and 2300, respectively. Numbers of species and detections per family were strikingly similar in the two plots, but numbers of detections of individual species often differed, likely in response to differences in habitat between the two plots. Species richness and composition were similar in many respects to comparable data from Ecuador, Peru, and French Guiana, but differed from those of Panama. Differences were most pronounced at the species level, less at the genus level, and least when comparisons were based on families. Differences among sites in South America were correlated with geographic distance at the species and genus levels, but not at the family level. Results illustrate the value of replicated plots within a region for understanding how species richness and composition can vary at small spatial scales, and highlight the importance of beta diversity for determining overall patterns of regional diversity. /// La riqueza y composicin de especies de las comunidades de aves en bosques neotropicales varan espacialmente a gran y pequea escala. Sin embargo, las comparaciones que se han realizadas previamente en parcelas de 100 ha no han incluido replicas en una misma regin. En este estudio, muestre aves en dos parcelas de 100 ha localizadas en un bosque de tierras bajas en el este de Ecuador para obtener un mejor entendimiento de la variabilidad en la riqueza y composicin de especies a una escala espacial pequea. Las aves fueron muestreadas en febrero y abril entre los aos 2002 y 2005 (en 2005 slo se muestre en febrero). Las parcelas estuvieron separadas por 1.5 km en un bosque del tipo terra firme principalmente. Un total de 319 especies (285 y 281 por parcela) pertenecientes a 43 familias estuvieron representadas en aproximadamente 16 000 detecciones en cada parcela; el nmero de especies y detecciones por muestreo fue en promedio aproximadamente de 185 y 2300, respectivamente. El nmero de especies y detecciones por familia fueron increblemente similares entre las dos parcelas, pero el nmero de detecciones de cada especie difiri en varios casos, probablemente como respuesta a las diferencias de hbitat entre las dos parcelas. La riqueza y composicin de especies fueron similares en varios aspectos a las de otros estudios que han reportado datos comparables en Ecuador, Per y Guyana Francesa, pero difirieron de los datos reportados para Panam. Las diferencias fueron ms marcadas a nivel de especies, intermedias a nivel de gneros y menores cuando las comparaciones se realizaron a nivel de familias. Las diferencias entre sitios en Sudamrica (excluyendo a Panam) se correlacionaron con la distancia geogrfica a nivel de especie y gnero pero no a nivel de familia. Estos resultados ilustran el valor de las parcelas replicadas dentro de una misma regin para entender cmo la riqueza y composicin de especies puede variar a escalas espaciales pequeas y destacan la importancia de la diversidad beta para determinar los patrones generales de diversidad regional. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120109|Along the Pacific coast of North America, White-winged Scoters (
10.2307/1368477|We studied the effects of observer variability when estimating vegetation characteristics at 75 0.04-ha bird plots. Observer estimates were significantly different for 31 of 49 variables. Multivariate analyses showed significant interobserver differences for five of the seven classes of variables studied. Variable classes included the height, number, and diameter of trees, height to the first live tree branch, height and number of shrubs, and composite variables. We then compared observer estimates with measurements of the same habitat variables. Univariate and multivariate comparisons of observer estimates with actual measurements revealed no clear pattern because estimates by each observer tended to deviate unpredictably from different measured values for 21 variables. Sample size requirements for selected variables ranged from 20 to 50 for measurements and from 20 to >75 for estimates. We noted significant differences in the point estimates and associated levels of precision between the two methods. Consequently, studies that rely on ocular estimates might sacrifice accuracy in lieu of potential time and cost savings.
10.2307/1369656|Previous studies with small numbers of clutches suggested that Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) were determinate egg-layers whose clutch size was fixed before laying began. We found that females lay additional eggs of normal size if clutch size is experimentally reduced, but do not lay fewer eggs when clutch size is increased. In the terms of Kennedy and Power (1990), Pied Flycatchers are removal-indeterminate and addition-determinate.
3247761| In its spread west across North America in 2002, West Nile virus (WNV) reached a population of marked American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) in Stillwater, Oklahoma, in late summer. Within two months, 46 of 120 individuals were missing or known to be dead, 39 of which (33% of the population) are estimated to have died for WNV-related reasons. In 2003, 56 of 78 marked crows disappeared or were found dead between June and November. Five of the 28 juvenile losses were possibly unrelated to WNV, thus we estimate that 65% of our population died because of this pathogen in 2003. The total loss of 72% of population members, including 82% of juveniles, in a single year of WNV exposure raises concern for precipitous declines in American Crow populations in coming years. /// En su diseminacin hacia el oeste de Amrica del Norte durante 2002, el Virus del Nilo Occidental alcanz a fines del verano una poblacin marcada de Corvus brachyrhynchos en Stillwater, Oklahoma. En menos de dos meses, 46 de los 120 individuos registrados desaparecieron o murieron, 39 de los cuales (33% de la poblacin) estimamos que murieron por causas relacionadas con el virus. En 2003, 56 de los 78 cuervos marcados desaparecieron o fueron encontrados muertos entre junio y noviembre. Cinco de las 28 prdidas de juveniles posiblemente no estuvieron relacionadas con el virus, por lo que estimamos que el 65% de nuestra poblacin muri a causa de este patgeno en 2003. La prdida total del 72% de los miembros de la poblacin, incluyendo el 82% de los juveniles, en un solo ao de exposicin al virus plantea preocupaciones en cuanto a la posibilidad de una disminucin precipitada de las poblaciones de C. brachyrhynchos en los prximos aos. 
10.2307/1368769|In the Quoddy region of New Brunswick, Canada, the postnuptial molt and feather renewal of Bonaparte's Gulls lasted about 14 weeks with the primary feather molt of the second-year birds being more advanced than that of the adults by 20 to 30 days or 2 to 3 primary feathers. Males were larger than females by body weight, and body, culmen, and tarsal lengths. There was a general trend for migrants passing through the Quoddy region during July and August to be larger in size than during October and November. Based on culmen and tarsal lengths measured on museum specimens collected from different geographical regions of the breeding range, there was a general trend for decrease in body size from east to west, which suggests that the first migrants through the Quoddy region represented populations from the east followed later by western populations.
90008046|Effective conservation of migratory species requires comprehensive knowledge of annual movement patterns. Such information is sparse for the Long-billed Curlew (
10.2307/1370189|I studied within-season and between-year variation in Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) brood structure, by censusing broods for four years in the northern Baltic. I also examined within-season patterns of female aggressiveness, and explored whether between-year patterns could be related to female body condition at hatching. Multi-female tending was initially the dominant brood rearing strategy. Moreover, 25-38.1% of the lonetended broods had more than six ducklings, indicating that they may contain adopted young. The number of ducklings per female increased with brood size, exposing some newly hatched ducklings to chilling due to unfavorably high ratios of ducklings to brooding females. Lone tenders became proportionally more common, the proportion of two-female tended broods was stable, and the proportion of broods with more than two females rapidly decreased during the season. Female aggression decreased in frequency over time, so the decline of broods with more than two females may relate to female aggressiveness. Family units began to break up when ducklings were 7 weeks old. Multi-female broods were initially more common in years when females were in good condition at hatching and less common in years when females were in poor condition. However, multi-female broods decreased in frequency over time in all years except the poorest year; multi-female tending strategy was most common in poor years and least common in good years. These between-year patterns may result from differences in body condition between lone tenders and multi-female tenders, indicating that female body condition may affect brood-caring decisions.
10.2307/1369221|We investigated age-specific plumage characters and the annual molt schedules of Hermit Warblers (Dendroica occidentalis) and Townsend's Warblers (D. townsendi), two closely related wood warblers that hybridize extensively where their breeding ranges overlap. First, we developed a method for aging spring males based on plumage characters. Previous authors have shown that adults of both species have black throats and immatures have yellow throats before their first prealternate molt. However, because the throats of most immatures become largely black in this molt, distinguishing between the two classes becomes problematic in spring and summer. We established aging criteria based on the appearance of the rectrices and wing coverts that allowed us to age correctly 99% of birds whose age could be determined independently by throat color. Furthermore, we could assign 96% of birds to age cohorts based on either throat color or these criteria. Second, we documented the annual molt schedules for males of both age cohorts of both species. Birds complete the prealternate molt on the wintering grounds, and the prebasic molt is essentially completed before birds arrive on the wintering grounds, although we found several birds in light molt south of the breeding range. Finally, we discovered several immature males of both species growing yellow, female-like feathers in the spring, supporting summer explanations for delayed maturation of the breeding plumage in these two species. Immature males differed from adults during the breeding season in several other plumage characters in addition to throat color.
3247765| We measured body temperature of Mountain Chickadees (Poecile gambeli) and Juniper Titmice (Baeolophus ridgwayi) at different times of day and under a range of ambient temperatures in order to determine the use of nocturnal hypothermia in seasonally acclimatized small passerines. Our findings show both species used nocturnal hypothermia year-round. Depth of hypothermia was inversely correlated to body mass in Juniper Titmice but not in Mountain Chickadees. In both species, depth of hypothermia did not vary seasonally but nocturnal body temperature was regulated 3-11C lower than daytime values. Nocturnal energy savings range from 7%-50% in chickadees and from 10%-28% in titmice. These nocturnal energy savings translate into ecologically important reductions in daily energy expenditures for these two species. /// Medimos la temperatura corporal de Poecile gambeli y Baeolophus ridgwayi a diferentes horas del da y en un rango de temperaturas ambientales para determinar el uso de hipotermia nocturna en pequeas aves paserinas aclimatadas estacionalmente. Nuestros resultados muestran que ambas especies presentaron hipotermia nocturna durante todo el ao. La profundidad de la hipotermia estuvo inversamente correlacionada con la masa corporal en B. ridgwayi, pero no en P. gambeli. En ambas especies, la profundidad de la hipotermia no vari estacionalmente, pero la temperatura corporal nocturna estuvo regulada 3-11C por debajo de los valores diurnos. El ahorro nocturno de energa vari entre 7%-50% en P. gambeli y entre 10%-28% en B. ridgwayi. Estos ahorros nocturnos de energa se tradujeron en reducciones ecolgicamente importantes en los gastos diarios de energa para ambas especies. 
10.2307/1369559| To determine whether Calidris paramelanotos is a distinct species or a hybrid, DNA sequences from the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene were obtained from it, as well as from C. ferruginea and C. melanotos. The sequences of the first two taxa were identical whereas that of C. melanotos differed by 9%. It is argued that C. paramelanotos is a hybrid taxon with C. ferruginea constituting the maternal parent. This conclusion, combined with comparisons of protein allozyme variation effectively rule out all but one of the crosses postulated for its hybrid origin--C. ferruginea  C. melanotos. 
1370108| I studied molt and plumage in the 'Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis), a monarch flycatcher endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, at Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge on the island of Hawai'i from 1994-1997. I captured birds in mist nets, examined them for molt, measured their plumage color with Munsell color chips, and followed them for several years to document plumage changes. Male and female Hawai'i 'Elepaio exhibited three distinct post-juvenal plumages, first basic, second basic, and definitive basic, and thus have a two-year delay in plumage maturation. 'Elepaio have a single annual molt, so there are no alternate plumages. The first prebasic molt is partial, but all subsequent molts are complete. The first basic plumage is juvenile-like and sexually monochromatic. The second basic and definitive basic plumages are sexually dimorphic in throat color. In each sex the second basic plumage resembles definitive plumage. Age-related plumage changes include increases in the whiteness, number, and length of contrasting tips to feathers on the throat, rump, wing coverts, and tail. Subadults do not molt fewer body feathers than adults and produce many feathers that are not adult in coloration, indicating the subadult plumages are not caused by a molt constraint. Appearance of the subadult plumages is consistent in some respects with juvenile mimicry, but the subadult plumages are unlikely to function in sexual mimicry. /// Entre 1994-1997 estudi la muda y el plumaje de Chasiempis sandwichensis, un monarca atrapamoscas endmico de las Islas de Hawai, en el Refugio Forestal Nacional de Vida Silvestre Hakalau en la Isla de Hawai'i. Captur aves empleando redes de niebla, las examin para establecer la muda, med el color de sus plumajes con fichas de colores Munsell, y las segu durante varios aos para documentar cambios en el plumaje. El macho y la hembra de C. sandwichensis exhibieron tres plumajes post-juveniles diferentes, bsico primero, bsico segundo, y bsico definitivo, mostrando as un desfasaje de dos aos en la maduracin del plumaje. La primera muda pre-bsica es parcial, pero todas las mudas subsecuentes son completas. El primer plumaje bsico se asemeja al del juvenil y es similar para ambos sexos. El segundo plumaje bsico y el bsico definitivo presentan dimorfismo sexual en el color de la garganta. En ambos sexos el color del plumaje bsico se asemeja al del plumaje definitivo. Los cambios en el plumaje relacionados a la edad incluyen un incremento en blancura, nmero, y largo de la punta contrastada de las plumas de la garganta, rabadilla, cubiertas alares y cola. Los subadultos no mudan menos plumas corporales que los adultos y producen muchas plumas que no son como la de los adultos en coloracin, indicando que el plumaje de los subadultos no responde a una limitante de la muda. La apariencia del plumaje de subadultos es consistente en cierto sentido con la imitacin de juveniles, pero el plumaje de subadultos es improbable que funcione como imitacin sexual. 
10.2307/1369364|Previous studies have shown that male White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys) discriminate among song dialects in the context of territorial behavior. We studied male response to song stimuli that differed systematically from the subjects' local dialect. We created four "hybrid" songs composed of elements from two adjacent dialects and monitored the responses of males from one dialect population to these four stimuli and to two unaltered dialect control songs. The most potent stimulus was the song from the dialect of the subjects, and the least stimulating song was that of the neighboring dialect. When we substituted the local dialect introductory components for those of the neighboring dialect, the response was as great as that given to the local dialect. Substitutions in other portions of the song caused decreased response in the subjects. Our results suggest that the vocal information controlling the territorial behavior of males in this particular dialect population is encoded in acoustic features located in the first part of the song.
10.1525/cond.2011.100203|Both the geographic center and the shape of the hybrid zone between the Northern Spotted Owl (
10.2307/1369654|New information on the vocalizations and behavior of populations of the Rufous Cacholote (Pseudoseisura cristata), combined with a morphometric analysis of museum specimens, reveal that it actually consists of two biological species: a form that is restricted to the arid caatinga region of northeastern Brazil (P. cristata), and a wider-ranging form (P. unirufa) that occupies seasonally flooded savannas and deciduous woodlands in northern and eastern Bolivia, northern Paraguay, and southwestern Brazil. Long considered a sub-species of P. cristata, P. unirufa is shown to be morphologically, vocally, and ecologically distinct from allopatrically distributed populations of P. cristata. Reciprocal playback experiments of tape-recorded vocalizations indicate that neither form responds to the other's vocalizations. The two species may also differ in their breeding systems and social structures. P. cristata is shown to be a cooperative breeder, with nonbreeding helpers assisting in territorial defense, nest-building, and care of nestlings. No evidence of cooperative breeding was found in P. unirufa.
10.1525/cond.2011.100087|Weather has a significant effect on avian migration, but whether the influence is similar across diverse geographic regions and across all species remains to be determined. We evaluated the effect of regional cold fronts and localized weather phenomena on the timing of autumn migration of multiple species of landbirds and raptors in southwest Idaho. The focus of the analysis was on total landbirds and the ten most common landbird species, along with total raptors and the eight most common raptor species. Using 13 years of data from the Idaho Bird Observatory in southwest Idaho (19972009), including standardized mist-net captures of landbirds and counts of raptors during autumn migration, we determined significant patterns that advance our understanding of the variables influencing avian migration in the West. Our data show a depression of numbers of most migratory species on the days immediately before, during, and after the passage of a cold front, with peak flights of most species occurring several days prior to or after cold fronts. This pattern was further substantiated by a detailed analysis of many weather variables illustrating that the majority of species choose to migrate during calmer winds, high pressure, and between cold fronts when the opportunity presents itself. In the Intermountain West, cold fronts are fewer in fall than in much of the rest of North America, so migrants may have greater choice of conditions under which to migrate and this behavior may be more common.
1370582| The southernmost major breeding area of Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) is located at the Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge, Nevada, in the high desert of the western Great Basin. We determined winter distributions, recovery rates, and survival for Canvasbacks banded in Nevada from March to November, 1968-2000. Winter recovery distributions did not differ by sex or age, but differed between direct recoveries (same year as banding) and indirect recoveries (after year of banding), indicating variable site use between years. Of direct band returns (October-March), 92% were from the Pacific Flyway and 56% were from California alone. In California, recovery distributions shifted from southern California and the San Francisco Bay estuary in the 1970s to the Central Valley in the 1980s and 1990s. In the 1990s, there were no recoveries in San Francisco Bay, historically the major wintering area for Canvasbacks in the Pacific Flyway. Adult and juvenile survival decreased by 24% between the 1980s and 1990s. Ruby Lake Canvasbacks exhibited weaker fidelity to wintering sites than Canvasbacks wintering on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Moreover, no major concentrations occurred during fall migration, unlike patterns in eastern North America. Shifts in distribution and survival may correspond to effects of El Nio weather on habitat conditions in Nevada and San Francisco Bay, and to major improvements in water delivery and wetland restoration in the Central Valley. Canvasbacks that use widely distributed and variable habitats may be good indicators of the effects of changing climate and water-use practices on waterbirds throughout this arid region. /// La principal rea reproductiva ms meridional de Aythya valisineria est localizada en el Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre de Lake Ruby, Nevada, en el desierto de altura de la gran depresin occidental. En este estudio, determinamos la distribucin invernal, las tasas de recobramiento y la supervivencia para individuos de A. valisineria anillados en Nevada de marzo a noviembre entre 1968 y 2000. Las distribuciones de los recobramientos invernales no difirieron entre sexos ni edades, pero difirieron entre recobramientos directos (del mismo ao de anillamiento) e indirectos (despus del ao de anillamiento), indicando que el uso de sitio era variable entre aos. De los recobramientos directos de anillos (octubre-marzo), el 92% fueron del corredor de vuelo del Pacfico y el 56% fueron slo de California. En California, la distribucin de los recobramientos cambi del sur de California y el estuario de la baha de San Francisco en los 1970s al Valle Central en los 1980s y 1990s. En los 1990s, no hubo recobramientos en la baha de San Francisco, histricamente el rea de invernada principal de A. valisineria en el corredor de vuelo del Pacfico. La supervivencia de adultos y juveniles disminuy en un 24% entre los 1980s y 1990s. Los individuos de A. valisineria de Ruby Lake exhibieron una fidelidad ms dbil a sus sitios de invernada que aquellos que invernan en las costas Atlntica y del Golfo. Ms an, no se presentaron grandes concentraciones durante la migracin de otoo, a diferencia de los patrones del este de Norte Amrica. Los cambios en la distribucin y la supervivencia podran corresponder a los efectos del clima de El Nio sobre las condiciones del hbitat en Nevada y la baha de San Francisco, y a grandes mejoras en el reparto de agua y la restauracin de humedales en el Valle Central. Los patos A. valisineria, que utilizan hbitats ampliamente distribuidos y variables, podran ser buenos indicadores de los efectos de los cambios climticos y las prcticas de uso de agua sobre las aves acuticas a travs de esta regin rida. 
4122541| We modeled annual apparent survival of Band-tailed Manakins (Pipra fasciicauda) inhabiting a contiguous forest site and a 10.9 ha forest fragment in lowland Bolivia based on six years of capture-recapture data. There was significant age-related variation in apparent survival, but adult survival rates did not differ significantly with sex. Apparent survival rates of immature birds differed between the two locations, while adult survival rates did not. The most parsimonious model therefore estimated annual survival at 10% for immature birds in the contiguous forest site, 53% for immature birds in the forest fragment, 46% for adults in the first year after initial capture and 68% for adults in subsequent years. Forest fragmentation may have reduced immature dispersal, leading to inflated apparent survival rates in the forest fragment. /// Con base en datos de captura y recaptura obtenidos a lo largo de seis aos, modelamos la supervivencia anual aparente de individuos de la especie Pipra fasciicauda en un bosque continuo y en un fragmento de bosque de 10.9 ha en las tierras bajas de Bolivia. Existi variacin significativa en la supervivencia aparente relacionada con la edad, pero las tasas de supervivencia de los adultos no difirieron significativamente entre sexos. Las tasas de supervivencia aparente de las aves inmaduras difirieron entre las dos localidades, mientras que las de los adultos no. El modelo ms parsimonioso estim la tasa anual de supervivencia en un 10% para las aves inmaduras en el bosque continuo, en un 53% para las aves inmaduras en el fragmento de bosque, en un 46% para los adultos en el primer ao luego de la captura inicial y en un 68% para los adultos en aos subsiguientes. La fragmentacin del bosque podra haber reducido la dispersin de las aves inmaduras, lo que habra conllevado a sobrestimar las tasas de supervivencia aparente en el fragmento de bosque. 
1369841| We observed 26 male Rufous Hummingbirds (Selasphorus rufus) on their breeding territories to quantify display behaviors and to interpret their functions. Territory holders responded to intruding conspecific males with aggressive chases until the intruder left the territory. Female intruders received dive displays and shuttle-flights, which we interpret as courtship behavior. Dive displays were J-shaped (concave upward) in both ascent and descent, contrary to other reports of oval-shaped displays. We present a representative sonogram of the sounds produced during these dive displays. /// Observamos 26 Selasphorus rufus machos en sus territorios de reproduccin para cuantificar sus comportamientos de despliegue e interpretar las funciones de stos. Los dueos de los territorios respondieron a intrusiones de machos coespecficos con persecuciones agresivas hasta que los intrusos abandonaron el territorio. Por su parte, las hembras intrusas recibieron despliegues en picada y patrones de vuelo repetidos, los cuales interpretamos como comportamientos de cortejo. Los despliegues en picada tuvieron forma de J (cncava hacia arriba) tanto en ascenso como en descenso a diferencia de reportes previos sobre despliegues en forma de valo. Adicionalmente presentamos un sonograma representativo de los sonidos producidos durante los despliegues en picada. 
10.2307/1369715| A water economy model for granivorous birds has been proposed that assumes equality between exogenous water intake and excretory (fecal + renal) water loss, with the variables of metabolic water production (MWP) and evaporative water loss (EWL) representing the determinants of states of water balance. The model further states that for each species employing seeds as the primary foodstuff, some ambient temperature (T
10.2307/1369985|In foothills of the western Sierra Nevada, 31 km east of Madera, California, we studied whether Bewick's Wrens (Thryomanes bewickii) tend to be excluded from an area occupied by House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) as reported in several studies in the eastern United States. Neither point counts from 1985 to 1997 nor spot mapping from 1989 to 1993 suggests any interaction between these species. The study period included the most prolonged drought and the most severe period of winter weather in the 64-year climatological record from the study site. House Wren abundance was significantly related to the 4-year running average of annual precipitation and to the lowest temperature recorded in the winter months preceding survey counts. We speculate that House Wrens cannot maintain their numbers by local recruitment during droughts in the oak-pine woodlands that dominate our study area and that recovery of their population following droughts involves recruitment from other areas, probably riparian zones and other mesic habitats elsewhere in the Sierra foothills and Central Valley of California. There was no influence of precipitation on abundance of Bewick's Wrens and, although they apparently sustained heavy mortality during a period of extreme winter weather, their numbers otherwise were not related to the lowest temperature during the winter preceding counts.
10.2307/1369389|Habitat selection by Dusky Flycatchers (Empidonax oberholseri) was examined in limber pine-mountain juniper (Pinus flexilis-Juniperus scopulorum) woodland in western Wyoming during the breeding seasons of 1986, 1987, and 1988. Vegetation characteristics associated with occupied habitat were measured (1) at the nest site, (2) within the 0.04-ha nest patch, and (3) in the breeding territory outside the nest patch; results were evaluated in relation to availability within the habitat type and nesting success. Breeding pairs of Dusky Flycatchers occupied nest patches with greater foliage cover and greater density of trees than was generally available; territories were associated with greater densities of snags and a smaller proportion of trees with dead branches extending outside the canopy than was generally available, although selectivity at the territory scale was relatively weak. Successful pairs of Dusky Flycatchers had nests with greater concealment from below, shorter distances from the nest tree to the nearest tree, and greater densities of small trees in the nest patch than unsuccessful pairs. An experiment using artificial nests suggested that concealment from below the nest site and tree density in the nest patch were selected independently. I speculate that Dusky Flycatchers select nest patches that conceal parental movements from nest predators, and that fewer trees with dead branches may indicate the selection of higher tree or foliage vigor in occupied territories. The possibility of multiple selective factors and processes, differentially affecting the selection of nest-site, nest-patch, and territory-scale habitat is discussed.
10.1525/cond.2010.090154|When and how fledglings become independent are important issues in understanding the life history of long-lived seabirds. In this study, we investigated post-fledging care, development of foraging skills, and the ultimate causes of independence in juvenile Red-footed Boobies (
1370348| Seed packaging is one fruit characteristic that may influence post-ingestional fruit processing in avian frugivores. We tested the response of a facultative frugivore, the Silvereye (Zosterops lateralis), to fruit containing different forms of seed packaging. Wildcaught, captive Silvereyes were presented with artificial fruit containing either one large seed or three small seeds of equivalent total volume, and their consumption rates were recorded over 90 min. In a second experiment, the seed transit times (ingestion to excretion) for similar large-seeded and small-seeded fruit consumed by Silvereyes were recorded. Silvereyes consumed significantly more large-seeded fruit than small-seeded fruit. The transit time of seeds was also significantly shorter for large-seeded (mean = 22 min) than for small-seeded fruit (mean = 29 min). Thus seed packaging had a significant influence on the rate at which fruit were processed. Silvereyes were able to consume more large-seeded than small-seeded fruit because the seeds in large-seeded fruit were defecated faster than those in small-seeded fruit. It is likely that Silvereyes can compensate for the costs of seed ingestion through having a rapid gut passage rate and hence an increased fruit consumption rate. The gut of Silvereyes showed morphological characters intermediate between insectivores and specialist frugivores. The dimensions of the intestine and gizzard were like those of insectivores and the gizzard was substantially larger than those of specialist frugivores. Facultative frugivores appear to have few morphological adaptations to frugivory and we argue that this facilitates plasticity in the diet and the processing of insects when fruit is not available. /// El empaquetamiento de semillas es una caracterstica que puede influenciar el procesamiento de frutos post ingestin en aves frugivoras. Pusimos a prueba la respuesta de un frugvoro facultativo (Zosterops lateralis) a frutos con distintas formas de empaquetamiento de semillas. Individuos de Z. lateralis silvestres fueron capturados y expuestos a frutos artificiales de volumen equivalente con una semilla grande o con tres semillas pequeas y su tasa de consumo fue registrada durante 90 minutos. En un segundo experimento, se registr el tiempo de trnsito (de ingesta a defecacin) de frutos similares con semillas grandes y pequeas. Z. lateralis consumi una significativamente mayor cantidad de frutos con semillas grandes que de frutos con semillas pequeas. El tiempo de trnsito de semillas grandes fu significativamente menor (promedio = 22 min) que el de semillas pequeas (promedio = 29 min). Por lo tanto, el empaquetamiento de semillas tuvo una influencia significativa sobre la tasa a la que los frutos fueron procesados. Z. lateralis fue capaz de consumir ms frutos con semillas grandes ya que sus semillas fueron defecadas ms rpidamente que las de frutos con semillas pequeas. Es probable que Z. lateralis pueda compensar el costo de la ingesta de semillas con un paso rpido a travs del tracto digestivo lo que se traduce en un aumento en la tasa de consumo de frutos. El tracto digestivo de Z. lateralis muestra caracteres morfolgicos intermedios entre los de insectvoros y frugvoros especialistas. Las dimensiones de los intestinos y la molleja son similares a las de insectvoros y la molleja es sustancialmente ms grande que la de los frugvoros especialistas. Los frugvoros facultativos parecieran tener pocas adaptaciones morfolgicas a la frugivora. Sugerimos que esto facilita una mayor plasticidad en la dieta y en el procesamiento de insectos cuando existe poca disponibilidad de frutos. 
10.2307/1368797| We studied population variability and habitat use of the Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus), the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), and the Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens) in sugar maple (Acer saccharum) forests of southern Qubec in various state of decline. The Least Flycatcher was the most abundant species (1.7 pairs/ha) over the three-year study, although numbers were lower and showed higher interannual variability in declining stands compared to healthy stands. The flycatcher established its territory in areas where trees were tallest, sugar maple was in nearly pure stand, and sub-canopy was sparse. The Red-eyed Vireo (1.2 pairs/ha) was ubiquitous and populations were stable in all study sites regardless of decline. The Black-throated Blue Warbler, less abundant (0.4 pairs/ha), colonized areas of the stand that offered a high density of shrub growth under a closed canopy in both declining and healthy sites. Except perhaps for the flycatcher, there was no clear association between population change or pattern of habitat use and the level of forest decline in these three species. Confounding factors such as predisposing life-history characteristics and large scale population changes may explain some of our results. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100218|We estimated first-year and adult survival of Black Brant (
1370341| We compared consistency of species richness and relative abundance data collected concurrently using mist netting and point counts during migration in riparian habitats along the middle Rio Grande of central New Mexico. Mist netting detected 74% and point counts detected 82% of the 197 species encountered during the study. Species that mist netting failed to capture were usually large, such as quails, raptors, owls, woodpeckers, jays, and crows, or those foraging on the wing, such as swallows and nighthawks; species that point counts failed to detect were usually small, such as sparrows, warblers, vireos, and wrens, or rare species. For the 110 species detected by both techniques, relative abundance was correlated (r = 0.75). However, point counts tended to provide lower estimates for species that were more likely to be captured by mist netting. The strength of the relationship of abundance estimates from the two methods varied by habitat type (cottonwood, agriculture, and willow). The discrepancy between the two techniques was similar in both magnitude and direction in willow and agriculture habitats but was less consistent between each of these two and cottonwood, probably because of canopy height and vegetation vertical structure. The discrepancy between the two techniques in estimating relative abundance was smaller in this study than in studies on breeding or wintering grounds. Less habitat specificity and more-active foraging by migrants during stopover might underlie the high consistency between mist netting and point counts in this study. /// Comparamos la consistencia de datos de riqueza y abundancia relativa colectados utilizando redes y puntos de conteo en hbitats ribereos durante la migracin por el sector central del Ro Grande en Nuevo Mxico. De las 197 especies registradas, detectamos 74% con redes y 82% con puntos de conteo. Por lo general, las especies no capturadas en las redes fueron las de mayor tamao corporal, como perdices, rapaces, bhos, carpinteros, urracas, cuervos y las que se alimentan al vuelo, como golondrinas y aaperos. Las aves no detectadas en los puntos de conteo fueron por lo general las ms pequeas, como garriones, reinitas, vireos, reyezuelos, y las especies raras. Para las 110 especies que fueron registradas con ambos mtodos, la abundancia relativa estuvo correlacionada (r = 0.75). Sin embargo, las estimaciones basadas en puntos de conteo generalmente fueron menores para aquellas especies detectadas con mayor frecuencia en las redes. El ajuste entre la relacin de las estimaciones de abundancia obtenidas mediante ambos mtodos vari en los diferentes tipos de hbitat (lamo, agrcola y sauce). En los hbitats de sauce y agrcola la diferencia entre los dos mtodos fue similar tanto en magnitud como en direccin, pero fue menos consistente entre stos y el hbitat de lamo. La variacin en la abundancia estimada entre hbitats posiblemente se debi a la altura del dosel y la estructura vertical de la vegetacin. La diferencia estimada de la abundancia relativa entre ambos mtodos fue menor en este estudio que en otros estudios realizados en reas de invernada y anidamiento. Esta mayor consistencia entre ambos mtodos en estimar la abundancia relativa puede deberse a que las aves presentan mayor actividad de forrajeo con menor especificidad de hbitat durante las paradas de descanso en las rutas migratorias. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090153|We examined the association of temporal and spatial factors with nest survival of Western Bluebirds (
10.1525/cond.2011.100089|We compared the plumage, morphology, and the alarm call of two taxa of the Gray Hawk (
10.1525/cond.2011.100226|The Rufous-tailed Hummingbird (
10.2307/1369907|We examined temporal and spatial variation in singing behavior of lekking Green Hermits (Phaethornis guy). Song production by individual males was correlated to song production by their neighbors on the lek. There was significant variation among territories in the amount of time that males on these territories devoted to singing and the total number of songs produced. This variation appears to be related to territory location on the lek: males on sites near the center of the lek spent more time singing and produced more songs than did males on the periphery. Males also varied in the frequency (pitch) of songs produced, but this variation did not appear to be related to territory location.
10.2307/1369943|The spatial and temporal patterns of breeding success of Least Terns Sterna antillarum were studied within a large colony at Sandy Point, Connecticut, an ocean beach on the East Coast of North America. Contrary to the 'selfish herd' hypothesis, nests located in the center of the colony suffered from significantly higher levels of predation and had correspondingly lower hatching and fledging success than nests located at the edge (particularly during 1988). Breeding success dropped from 0.56 chicks per nesting attempt during 1987 to 0.08 chicks per nesting attempt during 1988, primarily due to increased predation by Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax). Abandonment levels were proportionally equal for center and edge. Abandonment decreased slightly during 1988 when Black-crowned Night-Heron predation was most intense. Different patterns of predation were observed for the two major predators, Black-crowned Night-Herons and American Crows (Corvus brachyrhnchos). Predation by herons included chicks and eggs, began just prior to peak hatching, and was primarily in the center, whereas predation by crows was confined to eggs and was restricted to the edge of the colony. Results from this study suggest that the different impacts of these two predators may be due to the effectiveness of Least Tern antipredator behavior (viz. mobbing). Least Terns appeared not to mob predatory Black-crowned Night-Herons, but the extent of other antipredator behavior is unknown. The high concentration of Least Terns at the Sandy Point makes this colony particularly vulnerable to predators.
10.1525/cond.2011.090171|Making a detour can be advantageous to a migrating bird if fuel-deposition rates at stopover sites along the detour are considerably higher than at stopover sites along a more direct route. One example of an extensive migratory detour is that of the Sharp-tailed Sandpiper (
10.2307/1369661| We radiotagged seven female and two male Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) of undetermined breeding status and followed their movements through the inner passages of northern southeast Alaska during the breeding season (May-July) in 1998. Six of the nine murrelets were detected inland in the early morning hours from 24 June to 17 July. Inland visits for each individual were consistent to a particular location, but short in duration, which precluded locating nest sites. We recorded 46 locations at sea up to 124 km (x = 78  27 km) from inland sites during the period 19 June to 16 July. We detected murrelets at inland sites and at sea on the same day on 20 occasions with a mean distance between these locations of 75  42 km. The majority of murrelets were located at sea in western Icy Strait, a productive feeding area at the mouth of Glacier Bay, Alaska. This study provides the first direct evidence that Marbled Murrelets in southeast Alaska are consistently traveling considerable distances between potential nesting and foraging areas. These findings have important implications for murrelet conservation and management efforts in southeast Alaska. 
10.2307/1370407|In recent years, two approaches have emerged for the analysis of character evolution: the largely statistical "convergence" approach and the mainly cladistic "homology" approach. I discuss the strengths and weaknesses of these approaches as they apply to phylogenetic analyses of life-history variation in birds. Using examples from analyses of character variation in swallows, I suggest that the phylogenetic approach yields distinctive insights into the selective role of the environment and other characters of the organism on the evolution of life-history traits. This view thus has the potential of bringing together micro- and macro-evolutionary views of life-history evolution.
10.2307/1368398|We measured and compared the dimensions, height, and orientation of Gila Woodpecker (Melanerpes uropygialis) and Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus) nest cavities, and compared saguaros used for nest sites to the saguaros available for both species. Gila Woodpecker nest cavities had smaller entrances, were shallower in the vertical plane of the saguaro, and were deeper in the horizontal plane of the saguaro than Northern Flicker nest cavities. These data can be used to determine whether secondary cavity-nesting species are using Gila Woodpecker cavities, Northern Flicker cavities, or both. The mean height of nest cavities did not differ between species, and the orientation of nest cavities was random for both species. Although saguaro selection differed between the species, both selected the largest saguaros for nest sites. No nests of either species were found in saguaros <5 m tall. The continued existence of the saguaro cavity-nesting community is dependent upon the survival of large saguaros and adequate saguaro reproduction, despite human development of their desert habitat.
10.2307/1369563|Foraging characteristics of breeding Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis tichas sinuosa) on the central California coast varied between early morning and midday periods, among periods within the nesting season, and between sexes. From early morning to midday, yellowthroats increased their use of vegetation at heights below 1 m and above 3 m, but reduced their use of vegetation at heights of 2-3 m. A midseason increase in the use of vegetation at heights above 3 m occurred after 3 May. Male yellowthroats foraged at significantly greater heights, on average, were more likely to choose flycatching over other maneuvers, and were possibly better adapted, morphologically and behaviorally, to exploit spatiotemporal changes in prey abundance than were females. Singing males occurred at greater heights, on average, than either foraging males or females, but did not differ from foraging birds in their use of substrates or plant species. We evaluated the use of plant species for foraging in comparison with availability within 10 m of foraging individuals and over the entire study area, and found significant diurnal and intraseasonal patterns of selection. Common Yellowthroats actively selected arroyo willow (Salix lasiolepis) at both spatial scales of availability during all diurnal and seasonal periods. Use of foraging maneuvers varied intraseasonally but was independent of diurnal period. We found no significant interaction between diurnal and intraseasonal patterns of foraging. Our results suggested that Common Yellowthroats alter their foraging behavior in response to changes in foraging conditions associated with diurnal and intraseasonal dynamics of freshwater marsh ecosystems. Pooling of foraging data over diurnal or intraseasonal periods, or between sexes, may mask significant differences that are important in understanding foraging characteristics.
90008534|Management to increase reproductive success is commonly used to aid recovery of threatened and endangered species. The Western Snowy Plover (
10.1525/cond.2012.110212|We describe a new species of softtail
10.2307/1368073|We examined food-caching behavior of captive Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) to determine if conspecific density and relative social status influenced caching behavior. Individuals cached significantly fewer seeds and initiated caching later in the trial when conspecific densities were high than when alone or in the presence of a single conspecific. Social rank was not related to the observed variation in seed caching. The results suggest that conspecifics might be perceived as a source of potential cache loss by individuals but only when several are present.
1370709| We played conspecific and heterospecific vocalizations to juvenile, hand-raised Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapilla) in the laboratory and monitored their behavior in tests of preferential response to conspecific vocalizations. The subjects did not respond differently to conspecific and heterospecific vocal stimuli in three playback tests. We conclude that there was no evidence of selective attention to conspecific vocalizations during early life in these individuals. We speculate that this may explain the general lack of success in obtaining evidence for imitation learning by laboratory-tutored individuals in this species. /// Expusimos a juveniles Poecile atricapilla criados en el laboratorio a vocalizaciones coespecficas y heteroespecficas y seguimos su comportamiento mediante pruebas de respuesta preferente a vocalizaciones coespecficas. Los sujetos no respondieron diferencialmente a los estmulos vocales coespecficos ni heteroespecficos durante tres pruebas con cantos pregrabados. Concluimos que no hay evidencia de atencin selectiva a las vocalizaciones coespecficas durante la vida joven de estos individuos. Especulamos que esto pueda explicar la falta de xito en obtener evidencia de aprendizaje por imitacin en individuos de esta especie. 
10.2307/1369154|We examined hemoglobin concentration, hematocrit and mean cell hemoglobin concentration (MCHbC) in Bar-tailed Godwits Limosa lapponica during the latter half of their staging period in May in the Wadden Sea of The Netherlands. Here they recover from a 4,000-5,000 km long flight from West African wintering areas and refuel in preparation for a flight of similar length toward the arctic Siberian breeding grounds. Hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit levels showed no differences between the sexes, but were higher than expected for a bird species of their size. Bar-tailed Godwits that were on schedule with regard to molt and body mass gains, had elevated concentrations of red blood cells all the time during 19-30 May. In contrast, late-arriving, nutritionally stressed individuals, recognizable by the absence of contour feather molt, showed an increase in both hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit over time before scheduled departure on 1 June, converging to similar values as the group of high migratory quality. There were no time-related and categorical variations in MCHbC. We interpret the relatively low concentrations of red blood cells in late arriving light-weight individuals to indicate that long-distance migration flights may result in light anemia. The quick recovery and maintenance of high hemoglobin and hematocrit levels throughout the latter half of the staging period indicates that high concentrations of red blood cells are as necessary for rapid refuelling as for long-distance flights. The increased viscosity of blood with high hematocrit values was reflected in co-occurring increases in the size of the heart.
10.2307/1367568|Polygynous mating in Herring Gulls has been found only in northern Great Lakes breeding colonies. In 1978, I censused 21 colonies in northern Lake Michigan and Lake Huron to provide a baseline from which to gauge any future changes in the distribution and frequency of polygyny. Among 10,740 nests, I found 33 (0.3%) double-nests. Double-nests are two contiguous nest cups that contain eggs and are attended by one male and two females. I also found 30 (0.3%) nests with more than four eggs. These nests usually are attended by only two females (female associations). Polygynous groups and female associations were concentrated in northeastern Lake Michigan. The simultaneous occurrence of polygyny and female associations in Great Lakes Herring Gulls differs from the situation in other gull species in which only female associations have been described.
10.1525/cond.2013.120096|Predation is the primary source of mortality of dabbling duck nests, so a key aspect of parental investment is defending the nest from predators. The hen's presence on the nest is widely considered to be a good measure of nest defense; an incubating female camouflages the nest and may physically deter nest predators. Parental-investment theory suggests that investment should increase with the reproductive benefits expected from the current clutch of eggs. We used nest-temperature loggers to study how the rhythms of waterfowl incubation changed after the nest was partially destroyed by a predator. Contrary to the expected-benefits hypothesis, we found that hens significantly increased their investment after partial clutch loss: they took fewer recesses from incubation per day and extended their incubation by more than 200 min after a partial depredation. We suggest that when predators pose little risk to the incubating adult, those hens unable or unwilling to abandon a nest after partial clutch loss will increase parental investment to obtain at least some reproductive benefits.
10.1525/cond.2010.090196|The population decline of the Western Snowy Plover (
4123206| We studied the breeding biology of the Yellow-shouldered Parrot (Amazona barbadensis) on Margarita Island from March-August, 1990 to 1999. The timing of the different phases (egg-laying, hatching, fledging) was consistent over the years, except during 1998 when all phases were delayed. The average clutch size was 3.38  0.78 eggs per nest, with a range of one to five eggs per clutch, and most eggs survived until hatching (3.36  0.80 eggs per nest). Total clutch size and hatching success of this species on Margarita Island are among the highest in the genus Amazona, suggesting the Yellow-shouldered Parrot has a higher reproductive potential than other species of the genus. We detected interannual differences for some of the reproductive parameters, all in 1998, a year with an extreme drought. Egg losses totaled 20% and were caused by hatching failure, predation, and human disturbance. Forty-nine percent of nestlings were lost, mainly due to poaching. The number of fledglings per nesting pair averaged 1.27  1.61, but varied greatly among years. Thus, in relation to the average total clutch laid, each pair lost an average of 62% of its initial reproductive investment. /// Estudiamos la biologa reproductiva de la cotorra Amazona barbadensis en la isla de Margarita entre marzo y agosto desde 1990 hasta 1999. Las fechas de las diferentes fases (puesta de huevos, eclosin, vuelo de pichones) fueron consistentes a travs de los aos, excepto durante 1998, cuando todas las fases se atrasaron. El promedio del tamao de nidada para la dcada fue de 3.38  0.78 huevos por nido, con un intervalo de uno a cinco huevos por nidada. El tamao promedio de nidada al momento de la eclosin (3.36  0.80 huevos por nido) indica que la mayora de los huevos sobrevivi hasta la eclosin. El tamao total de la nidada y el xito de eclosin de la especie en la isla de Margarita son de los ms altos entre las especies del gnero Amazona, sugiriendo que A. barbadensis tiene un potencial reproductivo ms elevado que el de otras especies del gnero. Detectamos diferencias interanuales en algunos de los parmetros reproductivos, todas correspondientes a 1998, un ao con una extrema sequa. Las prdidas de huevos representaron un 20% durante el perodo 1990-1999 y fueron causadas por fallos en la eclosin, depredacin y perturbaciones humanas. El 49% de los pichones se perdieron, principalmente por la extraccin ilegal. El nmero promedio de volantones por pareja reproductiva fue 1.27  1.61, y este valor tambin vari considerablemente a travs de los aos. Esto indica que, en relacin con el tamao promedio de la nidada, cada pareja perdi en promedio el 62% de su inversin reproductiva inicial. 
10.2307/1367500| The reproductive performance of Lesser Snow Geese (Anser caerulescens caerulescens) at La Prouse Bay was examined in individuals retaining and in those changing their mate of the previous breeding season. Females retaining their mate had on average a slightly higher clutch size than those which did not. Other measures of reproductive success did not differ significantly between the two groups. The phenomenon of larger clutch size was not detectable in samples of older females. Females breeding for the second time, whether they changed mates or not, had a smaller clutch than did older birds, and clutch size was found to increase with age and/or experience, at least up to the third breeding attempt. We conclude that there is no causative relationship between mate loss and lowered clutch size. Nevertheless, females who breed for the first time are more likely to lose their mates and to have a lower-than-average clutch size as second-time breeders. In addition, first-time breeders were less co-ordinated in nest defense than more experienced birds. 
40072353|Molecular measures of parentage provide important insights into the opportunity for sexual selection; in birds, such studies have been conducted almost exclusively on pair-bonded passerines. Here I employ a multitiered parentage analysis involving 10-locus microsatellite genotypes to characterize the genetic mating system of a population of Wild Turkeys (
10.1525/cond.2011.100162|In many species of birds, periods of incubation of eggs within a clutch depend on the order in which the eggs were laid and determine whether the eggs hatch asynchronously or on the same day. Magellanic Penguins (
1370605| The Screaming Cowbird (Molothrus rufoaxillaris) is a specialized brood parasite that primarily parasitizes the Bay-winged Cowbird, (Agelaioides badius; Screaming Cowbirds parasitize 80-100% of this species' nests). In contrast, the Shiny Cowbird (M. bonariensis) parasitizes more than 200 hosts. According to the differential reproductive success hypothesis, we expect that Screaming Cowbirds would have a lower reproductive success than Shiny Cowbirds when parasitizing other hosts. We assessed the breeding success of the Screaming Cowbird using an alternative host, the Brown-and-yellow Marshbird (Pseudoleistes virescens). This species is a common host of the Shiny Cowbird with 60-70% of nests parasitized, and is also regularly parasitized by the Screaming Cowbird but with lower frequency (6-20% of the nests). We compared the breeding success of Screaming and Shiny Cowbirds parasitizing this host species. No differences were found in the number of fledglings produced per egg laid between cowbird species. About 8-10% of cowbird eggs produced fledglings. The daily survival rate of Screaming Cowbird eggs was higher than daily survival rates for Shiny Cowbird eggs, but no differences were detected in the nestling daily survival rates. Moreover, we could not detect any difference in the hatching success (nestlings per egg), fledging success (fledglings per nestling), or growth rates of the two parasitic cowbird chicks. Furthermore, breeding success and growth rates of Screaming Cowbird chicks were similar to those previously reported while parasitizing the Bay-winged Cowbird. Our results are not consistent with the differential reproductive success hypothesis proposed as an explanation for the specialized parasitism of Screaming Cowbirds. /// Molothrus rufoaxillaris es un parsito de cra especialista que parasita principalmente a Agelaioides badius (80-100% de los nidos son parasitados). Contrariamente, Molothrus bonariensis parasita ms de 200 especies. Basndonos en la hiptesis del xito reproductivo diferencial, esperamos que M. rufoaxillaris tenga un menor xito reproductivo que M. bonariensis al parasitar a otros hospedadores. En este trabajo evaluamos el xito reproductivo de M. rufoaxillaris parasitando un hospedador alternativo, Pseudoleistes virescens. Esta especie es un hospedador comn de M. bonariensis con 60-70% de los nidos parasitados, y es tambin regularmente parasitado por M. rufoaxillaris pero con menor frecuencia (6-20% de los nidos). Comparamos el xito reproductivo de M. rufoaxillaris y M. bonariensis parasitando esta especie. No encontramos diferencias en el nmero de volantones producidos por huevo puesto entre ambos parsitos. Alrededor del 8-10% de los huevos puestos por los Molothrus produjeron volantones. La tasa de supervivencia diaria de los huevos de M. rufoaxillaris fue ms alta que la de huevos de M. bonariensis. Tampoco encontramos diferencias en el xito de eclosin (pichn por huevo), xito de emplumamiento (volantn por pichn), ni en las tasas de crecimiento de los pichones de Molothrus. Adems, el xito reproductivo de M. rufoaxillaris y las tasas de crecimiento de sus pichones fueron similares a las previamente descritas cuando parasita a A. badius. En consecuencia, nuestros resultados no avalan la hiptesis del xito reproductivo diferencial para explicar la especializacin en el parasitismo de M. rufoaxillaris. 
1369840| We quantified post-fledging pre-independence behavior and survival in Lark Buntings (Calamospiza melanocorys) using radio-telemetry. Brood division was recorded in six broods and was maintained throughout the observed fledgling care period. Chicks were capable of short flights (up to 25 m) by fledgling day 6 and longer flights (to 100 m) by fledgling day 13. During the first three weeks after fledging, juveniles moved as far as 800 m from nests. Nine of 23 (39%) monitored fledglings died within 15 days of fledging, primarily due to predation by raptors. Daily survival rates were 0.953  0.019 for fledgling days 0-9, 0.955  0.038 for fledgling days 10-20, and 0.953  0.015 for fledgling days 0-20. The probability of surviving fledgling days 0-20 was 0.367. More quantification of juvenile survival is clearly needed to understand the role of post-fledging mortality in source-sink dynamics. /// Cuantificamos la conducta y la supervivencia de volantones de Calamospiza melanocorys antes de independizarse de sus padres usando telemetra de radio. La divisin de la nidada se registr en seis nidadas y se mantuvo a travs del perodo del cuidado de los volantones. Tras seis das de haber abandonado el nido, los polluelos eran capaces de realizar vuelos cortos (de hasta 25 m) y para el da trece ya realizaban vuelos ms largos (a 100 m). Durante las primeras tres semanas despus de salir del nido, los juveniles se movieron hasta 800 m de los nidos. Nueve de 23 (39%) volantones se murieron en los primeros 15 das fuera del nido, principalmente debido a depredacin por aves rapaces. Las tasas diarias de supervivencia fueron de 0.953  0.019 para los das 0 a 9, 0.955  0.038 para los das 10 a 20, y 0.954  0.015 para das 0 a 20. La probabilidad de sobrevivir entre los das 0 y 20 fue de 0.367. Se necesita ms cuantificacion de la sobrevivencia en la etapa juvenil para entender el papel de la mortalidad tras la salida del nido en la dinmica de fuente-sumideros. 
10.2307/1370208| A common perception is that desert birds experience greater extremes of heat and aridity than their mammalian counterparts, in part, because birds do not use burrows as a refuge from the desert environment. We report observations of Dunn's Larks (Eremalauda dunni), Bar-tailed Desert Larks (Ammomanes cincturus), Black-crowned Finch Larks (Eremopterix nigriceps), and Hoopoe Larks (Alaemon alaudipes) using burrows of the large herbivorous lizard Uromastyx aegypticus as thermal refugia during hot summer days in the Arabian Desert. Continuous recordings of shade air temperature (T
10.2307/1369157|This study examined the autumnal stopover patterns of migratory passerines on Appledore Island, Maine, from 1983 to 1992. We recaptured 13.4% of migratory passerines at least one day after initial capture with species averages ranging from 2.8% in Eastern Wood-Peewee (Contopus virens) to 33.5% in Philadelphia Vireos (Vireo philadelphicus). Most observed stopovers were less than four days. Young birds were more prevalent than adults in all species studied. Among Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus), Black-and-white Warblers (Mniotilta varia), and Northern Waterthrushes (Seiurus noveboracensis) young birds were more likely to be recaptured than adults. Young Northern Waterthrushes had significantly longer stopovers than adults. No difference in recaptures was detected between the sexes in any species studied. Most of the birds captured were lean (fat class 0 or 0.5) at initial capture. In several species, young birds were significantly leaner both in terms of fat class and mass than adults. Most species studied experienced significant increases in fat class and mass during stopovers. We did not find significant differences in mass or fat increases between age groups or between the sexes in any species studied. Cape May Warblers (Dendroica tigrina), Black-and-white Warbiers, and American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) did not exhibit any differences in recaptures, stopover lengths, or mass increases among years. Northern Waterthrushes exhibited significant differences in recaptures and Red-eyed Vireos exhibited differences in recaptures and mass increases among years during this study.
10.1525/cond.2010.100146|The Rusty Blackbird (
10.2307/1367222|Many of the Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) that wintered on a saltwater estuary in South Carolina and on a freshwater marsh in Florida attempted to maintain areas of exclusive use. Interactions with individuals of other raptor species usually involved stooping and high-speed pursuit. Although harriers sometimes attempted to repel conspecific intruders in the same manner, most interactions with conspecifics involved escorting the bird out of the area. Harriers were robbed of their prey at both sites, and we suggest that the aggressive behavior that we observed acted to reduce the incidence of intra- and interspecific piracy.
10.2307/1368270|We describe the breeding biology of Brown Thrashers (Toxostoma rufum) in Kansas, and combine this with data from other temperate-zone breeding Mimidae to characterize reproductive patterns in this group. Brown Thrashers produced clutches of 3 to 6 eggs, but clutches of 4 predominated. Most pairs raised 2 broods per year. Incubation required between 13 and 14 days, and hatching was usually asynchronous. Though sample size was small, asynchrony appeared to increase in frequency towards the end of the breeding season. Nestlings grew rapidly, and in 10 days or less most pre-fledging growth was completed. Young fledged normally at 11 days of age at 65% of adult weight, but with the tarsi near adult size. Nestlings starved in 27% of nests, but predators were responsible for most nest failures. Overall nest success was 43%. Brown Thrashers are typical of other temperate-zone mimids. Modal clutch sizes are of either 3 or 4 eggs and all species are multi-brooded. Mimids from the southwestern United States and Mexico lay normally 3 egg clutches, but elsewhere 4 eggs are most common. Incubation length and nestling growth rate vary significantly with adult weight, but on average, incubation is 3 days shorter and nestlings grow 36% faster than predicted. Relative incubation length and relative fledging weight both declined significantly with adult weight, whereas daily nest mortality rate increased significantly with adult size. Although our data are consistent with the hypothesis that heavy nest predation has favored rapid nestling growth and completion of development outside of the nest, rapid growth may also function in brood reduction. Present data are insufficient to exclude conclusively either factor in the evolution of rapid development in mimids.
10.2307/1368999| Phylogenetic relationships of modern seaducks (Mergini) were investigated using a cladistic analysis of 137 morphological characters. The analysis produced a single tree (consistency index = 0.692, excluding autapomorphies) with complete resolution of the relationships among the 25 taxa recognized. Phylogenetic inferences include: (1) the eiders (Polysticta and Somateria) constitute a monophyletic group and are the sister-group of other Mergini; (2) the remaining generic groups of Mergini, sequenced in order of increasingly close relationship, are Histrionicus, Melanitta + Camptorhynchus, Clangula, Bucephala + Mergellus, Lophodytes, and Mergus; (3) Somateria is monophyletic with S. fischeri the sister-group of its congeners; (4) the black scoters (Melanitta nigra-group) are the sister-group of other scoters; (5) the Bufflehead (Bucephala albeola) is the sister-group of the goldeneyes (B. clangula and B. islandica); and (6) relationships among mergansers are as presented by Livezey (1989). Bootstrapping revealed that the placement of the Smew as the sister-group of the goldeneyes is only weakly supported, and ancillary analyses revealed that this placement is only one step shorter than its reduction to a trichotomy with the goldeneyes and mergansers (including Lophodytes). A phylogenetic classification of modern seaducks is presented. The Harlequin Duck (H. histrionicus), Long-tailed Duck (Clangula hyemalis), and Steller's Eider (Polysticta stelleri) are highly autapomorphic. Evolutionary patterns of selected ecomorphological characteristics--including body mass, sexual size dimorphism, clutch size, relative clutch mass, nest site, diet, diving method, formation of crches, and biogeography--are examined with respect to the phylogenetic hypothesis. 
1369681| Parent birds may adjust the onset of incubation to minimize periods of high risk of nest failure due to predation (the Nest Failure Hypothesis) or of mortality to adult birds (the Adult Predation Hypothesis). We examine temporal patterns of risk of nest failure and predation on adult females in a population of Green-rumped Parrotlets (Forpus passerinus) to determine whether those patterns explain observed patterns of incubation. Over one-third of nests (38.6%) failed completely, and an additional 2.2% failed after fledging one or more young. Most nests failed due to predation and infanticide. Because parrotlets begin incubation on the first egg, we examined a range of hypothetical failure rates for the period prior to the onset of incubation. Daily survival probabilities for nests were higher during the nestling stage than during incubation or fledging. Survival of adult females varied little through the nesting cycle, but was highest while attending nestlings. Model predictions were highly dependent on assumptions made about survival rates during the pre-incubation period. When empirically based values were used for this period, maximum productivity was achieved with first-egg incubation, consistent with observed patterns. Models were most sensitive to those parameters most difficult to estimate. This study represents the first test of the Nest Failure model with a nonpasserine or tropical species, and the first assessment of the Adult Predation model using field data. /// Los pjaros reproductores pueden ajustar el comienzo de la incubacin para minimar los perodos de alta riesgo del fracaso del nidado debido a depredacin (la hiptesis del Fracaso del Nido) o de la mortalidad a pjaros adultos (la hiptesis Depredacin de Adultos). Examinamos los patrones temporales del riesgo de fracaso del nidado y depredacin de las hembras adultas en una poblacin del periquito mastrantero (Forpus passerinus) para determinar si esos patrones explican los patrones de incubacin observados. Sobre un tercero de nidados (38.6%) fall completemente, y un adicional 2.2% fallaron despus de producir por lo menos un pichn. La mayora de los nidados fallaron a causa de depredacin o infanticidio. Ya que los periquitos comienzan incubar en el primer huevo, examinamos varios tasas de fracaso hipotticos por el perodo antes del comienzo de la incubacin. Las probabilidades diarias de sobrevivencia para nidados eran ms altas durante el perodo de pichones que durante la incubacin o el emplumamiento. La tasa del sobrevivencia para hembras adultas vari poco a lo largo del ciclo de nidificacin, pero era ms alto mientras que tienen pichones. Predicciones del modelo eran altamente dependientes en los asunciones hechas acerca de tasas del sobrevivencia antes de la incubacin. Cundo valores empricamente basados se usaron por este perodo, la productividad mxima se logr cuando incubacin comienz con el primer huevo, consistente con el patron observado. Los modeles eran muy sensibles a esos parmetros cuales eran lo ms difcil estimar. Este estudio representa la primera prueba del hiptesis del Fracaso del Nido con una especie no passeriform, o especie tropical. Tambin es la primera prueba del hiptesis del Depredacin de Adulto con datos del campo. 
40072397|Song Sparrows (
10.2307/1368193|From data in the literature, an allometric equation is compiled for hatchling resting metabolic rate and an attempt is made to explain residual variation in terms of hatchling type, yolk and water content, embryonic and postnatal growth rate, and environmental circumstances (latitudinal distribution). The body mass exponent for resting metabolism in hatchlings was 0.86 and, thus, substantially different from the values compiled for adult birds (0.67-0.75). Relatively high hatchling metabolic rates were found for birds exhibiting high embryonic and postnatal growth rates, as well as for those species that hatched at high latitudes. A functional explanation is postulated for the correlations between hatchling metabolism and these three variables.
1370116| The Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) is an interspecific brood parasite that mimics the eggs of its hosts. In this study we tested the resemblance between Cuckoo and host eggs in four host species breeding in sympatry: the Reed Warbler (Acrocephalus scirpaceus), Great Reed Warbler (A. arundinaceus), Sedge Warbler (A. schoenobaenus), and Marsh Warbler (A. palustris). According to the "gentes theory," individual Cuckoos lay eggs that mimic those of a single host species, and they parasitize only that species. We therefore expected the Cuckoo eggs to more closely resemble the eggs of their respective host species than eggs of sympatric hosts. However, analyses showed no such resemblance; test subjects were not able to distinguish Cuckoo eggs taken from nests of different host species. The most common Cuckoo egg type resembled the eggs of the Garden Warbler (Sylvia borin), a frequent European Cuckoo host which, however, has not been found parasitized in the study area. A possible evolutionary origin for this resemblance is discussed. Results from radio-tracking of Cuckoo females in the study area have shown that host preference does exist. This preference has not yet been manifested in the evolution of clear Cuckoo egg morphs adapted to the different host species. /// El cuco (Cuculus canorus) parasita los nidos de varias especies imitando los huevos de sus especies hospederas. En este estudio cotejamos la similitud entre los huevos de cucos y los huevos de cuatro especies hospederas que cran en simpatra: Acrocephalus scirpaceus, A. arundinaceus, A. schoenobaenus, A. palustris. De acuerdo a la "teora de gentes" los huevos que pone un individuo de cuco imitan slo a los huevos de una especie hospedera, y por lo tanto parasita slo a esa especie. Debido a esto esperbamos que los huevos de cucos fueran ms similares a los huevos de sus respectivas especies hospederas que a los huevos de las dems especies hospederas simptricas. Sin embargo, los anlisis no mostraron dicha similitud; los individuos testeados no fueron capaces de distinguir entre huevos de cucos tomados de nidos de diferentes especies hospederas. El tipo de huevo ms comn de cuco se asemeja a los huevos de Sylvia borin, una especie hospedera frecuente para los cucos europeos, la cual, sin embargo, no ha sido encontrada parasitada en el rea de estudio. Se discute el posible origen evolutivo de dicha similitud. Los resultados de telemetra de hembras de cucos en el rea de estudio han mostrado que la preferencia de hospedadores existe. Esta preferencia no se ha manifestado an en la evolucin del morfo claro de huevo de cuco adaptado a las diferentes especies hospederas. 
1370386| Among 90 independent pairings of Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in Tucson, Arizona, fewer adult-subadult pairings and more adult-adult and subadult-subadult pairings occurred than was expected. On average, hatching occurred at nests of adult pairs five days earlier than subadult male-adult female pairs, 12 days earlier than adult male-subadult female pairs, and 19 days earlier than subadult pairs. Brood sizes were largest among adult pairs, lower among mixed-age pairs, and smallest among subadult pairs. Adult female Cooper's Hawks nested earlier and had larger broods than subadult females, but brood size did not differ between subadult females paired with adult or subadult males. Adult pairs fledged significantly more young per year than mixed-age and subadult pairs. Differences in phenology between adult and subadult Cooper's Hawks may be associated with adults being preferred as mates. Differences in productivity, however, may be more closely associated with age-related constraints on reproductive physiology of females. /// Entre los 90 pares independientes de gavilanes de Cooper (Accipiter cooperii) localizados en Tucson, Arizona, ocurrieron menos cruzas de las esperadas entre juveniles con adultos y mas entre adultos con adultos y juveniles con juveniles. Eclosin en los nidos de parejas adultas ocurrio cinco das antes que en parejas compuestas por juveniles machos y hembras adultas, 12 das antes que en parejas compuestas de machos adultos y hembras juveniles y 19 das antes que en parejas de juveniles. El tamao de las nidadas fue ms grande entre parejas de adultos, medianas entre parejas de edades mixtas, y pequeas entre parejas de juveniles. Las hembras adultas empezaron la anidacion antes que las hembras juveniles y tuvieron nidadas mas grandes que las hembras juveniles, sin embargo, el tamao de la nidada no vari entre hembras juveniles pariadas con machos adultos o juveniles. Las parejas de adultos produjeron mas crias en edad del primer vuelo por ao que las parejas de edades mixtas y las parejas de juveniles. La preferencia por individuos adultos como pareja podra estar asociada con las diferencias en fenologa entre los gavilanes adultos y juveniles. Las diferencias en productividad, sin embargo, pudieran estar asociadas directamente con las limitaciones inherentes a la de edad y la fisiologa reproductiva de las hembras. 
10.1525/cond.2011.110027|Variation in the risk of predation to offspring can influence the expression of reproductive strategies both within and among species. Appropriate expression of reproductive strategies in environments that differ in predation risk can have clear advantages for fitness. Although adult-predation risk appears to influence glucocorticosteroid levels, leading to changes in behavioral and life-history strategies, the influence of offspring-predation risk on adult glucocorticosteroid levels remains unclear. We compared total baseline corticosterone concentrations in Gray-headed Juncos (
10.2307/1369433|I examined habitat selection by foraging 'Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis) in relatively undisturbed and human-altered forests in Hawaii at three hierarchically-nested scales by comparing birds with random sites. The fine scale was based on a sphere with a radius of 0.75 m, the intermediate scale used a cylinder from ground to canopy with a radius of 1.5 m, and the broad scale was based on the point-quarter method. At a fine scale, 'Elepaio in both forests selected foraging sites with high foliage density, large bark surface area, and many twigs and branches. 'Elepaio in disturbed areas compensated for lower available foliage density by being "hyperselective" toward high density sites. At an intermediate scale, 'Elepaio in both forests favored sites with above average foliage density at all heights. Birds in undisturbed habitat preferred sites with native ground cover and used sites with feral pig damage or exotic grasses less than expected, while birds in disturbed forest did not favor any ground cover type. At a broad scale, tree and shrub densities were much lower in disturbed areas, but 'Elepaio did not select sites with high tree or shrub density in either forest. 'Elepaio in both forests preferred 'Ohia, and used Koa less than expected. Disturbed areas may be lower quality foraging habitat because less space consists of sites with preferred high fine-scale foliage density. The broad scale is commonly used to measure habitat around nest sites and song perches, but it did not detect patterns of foraging site selection and may be too coarse for measuring foraging habitat of forest birds.
3247781| Biologists commonly use multistate capture-recapture models to estimate movement and survival rates of animals. Recent improvements to genetic and stable-isotope techniques have created the potential for making a posteriori determinations of an animal's location. Here, I present a new multistate model structure that incorporates captured animals' backdated locations. To provide data for this model, I developed a computer simulation in which birds moved between two geographic strata during three time periods. Birds were captured and assigned mortality, and multistate capture histories were recorded. I enhanced capture histories for birds using data from simulated stable-isotope analyses. I then used the modified multistate model to estimate survival, movement, and recapture probabilities. I evaluated the ability of stable-isotope data to more precisely estimate movement over a range of recapture and movement rates. In each of nine simulations, information from stable isotopes improved the precision of the movement estimate; estimates and precision of survival and recapture rates did not change. As real stable-isotope data sets become available, this estimation model may be useful to biologists interested in improving precision of movement rates among geographic strata. /// Los bilogos usan generalmente modelos multi-estado de captura-recaptura para estimar las tasas de movimiento y supervivencia de los animales. Las mejoras recientes de las tcnicas genticas y de istopos estables han creado el potencial de hacer determinaciones a posteriori de la localizacin de un animal. Aqu presento la estructura de un nuevo modelo multi-estado que incorpora las localidades pasadas de animales capturados. Para contar con datos para este modelo, desarroll una simulacin en computadora en la cual las aves se movieron entre dos estratos geogrficos durante tres perodos de tiempo. Las aves fueron capturadas y se les asign un valor de mortalidad, y se registraron las historias de capturas multi-estado. Potenci el uso de las historias de captura de las aves empleando datos simulados de anlisis de istopos estables. Luego us el modelo multi-estado modificado para estimar las probabilidades de supervivencia, de movimiento y de recaptura. Evalu la habilidad de los datos de istopos estables para estimar movimiento de modo ms preciso en un rango de tasas de recaptura y movimiento. En cada una de las nueve simulaciones, la informacin de los istopos estables mejor la precisin de la estimacin de movimiento; las estimaciones y la precisin de las tasas de supervivencia y recaptura no variaron. A medida que estn disponibles datos reales de istopos estables, este modelo de estimacin puede ser til para los bilogos interesados en mejorar la precisin de las tasas de movimiento entre estratos geogrficos. 
4500971| A recent taxonomic revision of the Malagasy Scops-Owl (Otus rutilus) recognized two distinct endemic species on the island based on plumage, vocal, and morphological characters: O. rutilus (sensu stricto) from eastern humid forest formations and O. madagascariensis from western dry forest areas. An evaluation of these characters calls into question their validity for taxonomic studies, as they may be ecologically linked. To independently assess the two-species hypothesis, we used sequence data from 1449 base pairs (bp) of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from 34 scops-owls obtained across the range of these two putative species. Nineteen haplotypes were detected, four of which were shared by more than one individual. Maximum sequence divergence was 0.6% (mean = 0.24%). While the most common haplotype was shared by 10 individuals originating from different eastern and western localities, 12 haplotypes were exclusive to O. rutilus and five to O. madagascariensis. An analysis of molecular variance showed significant partitioning of the genetic variability between O. rutilus and O. madagascariensis. The estimate of the divergence time between populations associated with the names O. rutilus and O. madagascariensis was 8070 years BP. Based on haplotype frequencies and sequence divergence, we conclude that there are two populations of Otus on Madagascar that started to diverge in recent geological time following an ecological parapatric model, perhaps associated with Quaternary climatic shifts. Using these results, it is inappropriate to recognize two species of Otus on Madagascar. /// Con base en caracteres del plumaje, vocales y morfolgicos, una revisin taxonmica reciente del bho Otus rutilus reconoce dos especies distintas endmicas de Madagascar: O. rutilus (sensu stricto), de las formaciones de bosque hmedo del este, y O. madagascariensis, de las reas de bosque seco del oeste. Una evaluacin de estos caracteres conduce a cuestionar su validez para estudios taxonmicos debido a que stos pueden estar ecolgicamente relacionados. Para comprobar de forma independiente la hiptesis de la existencia de dos especies, usamos datos de secuencias de 1449 pares de bases de ADN mitocondrial obtenidas para 34 individuos de Otus rutilus colectados a travs del rango de distribucin de las dos especies hipotticas. Se detectaron 19 haplotipos, de los cuales cuatro fueron compartidos entre individuos. La divergencia mxima entre secuencias fue del 0.6% (promedio = 0.24%). El haplotipo ms comn fue compartido por diez individuos originarios de localidades del este y del oeste, mientras que doce haplotipos se observaron exclusivamente en O. rutilus y cinco en O. madagascariensis. Un anlisis de varianza molecular mostr una particin significativa de la variabilidad gentica entre O. rutilus y O. madagascariensis. La estimacin del tiempo de divergencia entre las poblaciones asociadas con el nombre de O. rutilus y O. madagascariensis fue de 8070 aos antes del prsente. Con base en las frecuencias haplotpicas y la divergencia entre secuencias, concluimos que hay dos poblaciones de Otus en Madagascar que comenzaron a divergir en un tiempo geolgico reciente siguiendo un modelo paraptrico, quizs asociado con los cambios climticos del Cuaternario. Utilizando estos resultados, reconocer dos especies de Otus en Madagascar es inapropiado. 
10.2307/1367751|Dispersal in a declining population of Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) was studied over four years on Hardwicke Island, British Columbia, Canada, by radio-tracking 66 individuals and reobserving or recapturing 126 banded individuals. On a 464-ha main study area, numbers of territorial males decreased from 152 to 94, breeding females from 276 to 113, and young grouse alive in late summer from 847 to 224 during the period of study. Despite this, dispersal distances did not vary between years and bore no clear relationship with adult densities in spring or density of juveniles in the previous fall. Rates of survival and reproduction for long-dispersers (grouse moving greater than the median dispersal distance) and short dispersers (grouse moving less than the median dispersal distance) were similar. Similar results were noted for grouse that left the study area (dispersers) and those that remained on the study area (non-dispersers). Overall, there was little evidence that dispersers fared poorly or that dispersal was greatly influenced by population density.
10.1525/cond.2011.100120|Chickadees and tits excel at identifying and exploiting novel food sources. One such food source in western North America is the larvae of
10.1525/cond.2013.110150|From 1997 through 2010, in collaboration with the National Park Service, we released 84 captive-reared California Condors (
1370380| I conducted transect surveys of pigeon and dove (Columbidae) nests on Puerto Rico, Vieques, and Culebra islands. Nest detection probability and density differed between study areas in January-August 1991 and 1992. Nest detection probability and density did not differ between years or among species, so I used transect data from a larger study (1986-1999) to assess the relationships between nest density and rainfall, food abundance, food diversity, and predator abundance along transects. Food abundance was the most important predictor of annual changes in nest density on the surveyed transects in mesic and xeric habitats during May-June 1986-1999. Positive correlations of annual nest density estimates suggested parallel responses among columbid species to similar or covarying resources in mesic and xeric habitats. /// Efectu muestreos de nidos de palomas y trtolas (Columbidae) en transectos en las islas de Puerto Rico, Vieques, y Culebra. La probabilidad de deteccin y la densidad de los nidos difirieron entre las reas de estudio de enero a agosto en 1991 y 1992. La probabilidad de deteccin y la densidad de los nidos no difirieron entre los aos y las especies, as que us los datos de un estudio a largo plazo (1986-1999) para evaluar las relaciones entre la densidad de los nidos y la lluvia, la abundancia y la diversidad de la comida, y la abundancia de los depredadores en los transectos. La abundancia de la comida fue la variable que mejor predijo los cambios anuales en la densidad de los nidos en los transectos muestreados en hbitats xricos y msicos entre mayo y junio de 1986 a 1999. Las correlaciones positivas de los cambios anuales en la densidad de los nidos sugirieron respuestas paralelas entre las especies de colmbidos a recursos similares o covariables en los hbitats msicos y xricos. 
10.2307/3247729|We studied the effects of brood size and chick age on food provisioning rates to Pigeon Guillemot Cepphus columba nests, and differences in growth parameters between chicks in broods of one and broods of two. Provisioning rates increased with chick age in the first part of the nestling period, and then declined. This decline was steeper in 1985, when overall provisioning rates were higher. Per-chick provisioning rates were lower to broods of two, resulting in one of the chicks having a lower growth rate, and possibly a lower fledging mass, than its sibling. Growth parameters of the faster growing chick in broods of two did not differ significantly from those of solo chicks. The decline in provisioning rate late in the nestling period is probably not due to reduced food availability. It may be due to reduced energetic demands of the chicks or to a deliberate strategy on the parents' behalf to induce fledging. At present we lack the information to distinguish between these two hypotheses.
1369831| During the breeding season birds need increased amounts of dietary calcium during egg laying and nestling rearing. Passerines acquire calcium shortly before and during laying and do not store calcium for egg formation. Many passerines need to eat extraneous calcium in the form of snail shells or calcareous grit to acquire the element. However, very little is known about variation in the dependency of birds on extraneous calcium, and where this calcium is acquired. Using reports from volunteers who provided extraneous calcium sources at feeder sites across North America we documented that (1) the use of extraneous calcium varied during the breeding season; (2) the location in which species preferentially took the calcium varied with typical feeding location, aside from swallows which, somewhat surprisingly, favored calcium offered on the ground; (3) Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) did not visit calcium sites more often than other blackbirds; (4) calcium use varied among species with thrushes, wrens, and woodpeckers taking calcium only rarely, and swallows, pigeons, and corvids taking calcium frequently. The most surprising result perhaps was the very high frequency of calcium use in jays; Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) may hoard calcium in the fall. /// En la poca reproductiva, las aves necesitan incrementar la cantidad de calcio en la dieta durante el perodo de postura de huevos y cra de los pichones. Las aves paserinas adquieren calcio poco antes y durante la postura y no lo almacenan para la formacin de los huevos. Muchas aves paserinas necesitan ingerir calcio de fuentes externas como conchas de caracoles o cascajo calcreo para adquirir este elemento. Sin embargo, se sabe muy poco sobre la variacin en el grado de dependencia de las aves de calcio externo y sobre dnde adquieren este calcio. Con base en reportes de voluntarios que suministraron fuentes externas de calcio en comederos a travs de Norteamrica, documentamos que (1) el uso de calcio externo vari durante la poca reproductiva; (2) el sitio en donde las especies tomaron el calcio preferencialmente vari de acuerdo al sitio tpico de alimentacin, con excepcin de las golondrinas, que de manera algo sorprendente, prefirieron el calcio ofrecido en el suelo; (3) Molothrus ater no visit sitios con calcio con ms frecuencia que otros ictridos; (4) el uso de calcio vari entre especies: los trdidos, troglodtidos y carpinteros muy rara vez tomaron calcio, mientras que las golondrinas, palomas y crvidos lo hicieron frecuentemente. Quizs el resultado ms sorprendente fue la muy alta frecuencia de uso de calcio en Cyanocitta; C. cristata podra acumular calcio durante el otoo para uso futuro. 
10.2307/1368404| Movements, survivorship, covey size, roosting behavior, and habitat use of Montezuma Quail (Cyrtonyx montezumae) marked with radio transmitters were studied in the foothills of the Huachuca Mountains of southeastern Arizona from October 1986 through November 1987. Coveys used small areas (0.09-6 ha) and during midwinter, the same small area would be used for long periods. In late winter and early spring, coveys occupied much larger areas by sequentially spending 3-10 days on adjacent, nonoverlapping areas as large as 50 ha. Daily movements were small (15-60 m) for most of the year, and movements between days were often 100 m. Birds with radios persisted on the study site as long as 133 days, but most were followed for <30 days. Covey size varied seasonally, with pairs observed from April-May through September. Individually followed coveys of up to six to eight birds declined in numbers from September through April. Slope, aspect, basal vegetation cover, dominant plant species, and distance to the nearest oak tree was measured at each location or flush site. When compared to randomly selected points in the oak savanna habitat, quail preferred southeast-facing hillsides in tall grasses for night roosts. Day-use areas were selectively on north-facing hillsides. Areas used by quail during the day were generally on hillsides, about 16 m from the nearest oak tree and had grass cover intermediate between barren areas under oak trees and more dense grass cover farther away from the oaks. 
1370541| Maximum altitudes of soaring migration for White Pelicans (Pelecanus onocrotalus), White Storks (Ciconia ciconia), Lesser Spotted Eagles (Aquila pomarina), and Honey Buzzards (Pernis apivorus) were measured in central west Israel and compared to the upper boundary of thermal convection and thermal intensity as predicted by the convection model ALPTHERM. The model predictions of upper boundary of convection explained at least 20% of the variance in maximum altitudes of migration for each species studied. Each species used thermal convection differently. White Pelicans, with the largest wing loading, used 54% of the thermal boundary layer, as calculated by dividing the maximum flight altitude by the modeled thermal depth. White Storks and Lesser Spotted Eagles used 69% and 65%, respectively; Honey Buzzards, with the lowest wing loading, used 95% of the thermal boundary layer. Mean lift rate of convection had a stronger effect on maximum altitudes of flight or the proportion of the thermal boundary layer used by Lesser Spotted Eagles and Honey Buzzards, than it did on storks and pelicans. Honey Buzzards, which combine flapping with soaring flight, were not confined to the thermal boundary layer. Changes in migration altitudes within a species and differential use of thermal convection between species were related to a combination of upper boundary of thermal convection, average lift rate, migratory behavior, wing loading, topography, and additional local meteorological conditions. /// Se midieron las alturas mximas de planeo elevado durante la migracin al oeste de Israel central para Pelecanus onocrotalus, Ciconia ciconia, Aquila pomarina y Pernis apivorus, y se compararon con el lmite superior de la conveccin y la intensidad trmica predicho por el modelo de conveccin ALPTHERM. Las predicciones del lmite superior de conveccin del modelo explicaron al menos el 20% de la varianza en alturas mximas de migracin para cada especie estudiada. Cada especie utiliz la conveccin trmica de una forma diferente. Pelecanus onocrotalus, la especie con la mayor carga alar, utiliz el 54% de la capa trmica lmite, lo que se calcul dividiendo la altura mxima de vuelo por la profundidad trmica modelada. Ciconia ciconia y A. pomarina usaron el 69% y 65% de la capa trmica lmite, respectivamente; P. apivorus, la especie con menor carga alar, utiliz el 95%. La tasa promedio de fuerza ascensional de conveccin tuvo un efecto ms marcado en las alturas mximas de vuelo o la proporcin de la capa trmica utilizada en A. pomarina y P. apivorus que en P. onocrotalus y C. ciconia. Pernis apivorus, que combina el aleteo con el vuelo planeado, no estuvo confinada a la capa trmica lmite. Los cambios en las alturas de migracin dentro de una especie y el uso diferencial de la conveccin trmica entre especies estuvieron relacionados con una combinacin del lmite superior de la conveccin trmica, la tasa promedio de fuerza ascensional, el comportamiento migratorio, la carga alar, la topografa y condiciones meteorolgicas locales adicionales. 
10.2307/1367405|The contents of fresh eggs of altricial, semi-altricial, semi-precocial, and precocial birds were compared with values for yolk content gathered from the literature. The continuum of developmental maturity at hatching from altricial to precocial eggs is correlated with an increase in yolk, solids, and caloric contents (per gram wet mass) and a decrease in water content. The proportion of lipid in dry matter and caloric content per gram dry mass does not vary significantly among the four developmental groups. The progressively higher caloric content on a wet mass basis with increasing precocity is a result of a larger solid content and lower water content, rather than variation in caloric value of the dry matter itself. Comparison of values within the same developmental group discloses no significant correlation between relative yolk content and egg mass. The total amount of calories in eggs is more importantly determined by egg mass than by yolk content.
10.2307/1367261|While censusing coniferous forest birds in 30-m-radius circular plots, I suspected that frequent movement by birds into and out of the plots might be biasing my results. To quantify the extent of bias, I analyzed data from 142 censuses for three actively calling species that were unlikely to be missed if present on a plot for 5 min. Each census consisted of two consecutive 5-min counts. For the three species, 36 to 72% of all individuals detected were detected in only one of the two counts; thus at least that many moved across plot boundaries during a 10-min period. Density estimates based on a 10-min period were 22 to 56% higher than those based on a 5-min period. My estimates for fixed circular plots were thus biased because they were derived from cumulative rather than instantaneous counts. Movement poses similar problems for variable circular plot, strip transect, and line transect methods. It is difficult to reduce bias due to movement without increasing bias from other sources.
10.2307/1366790|In a population of Merlins nesting on the Canadian prairies, the eggs of females with large DDE burdens had significantly lower quality shells, disappeared more frequently, and hatched less frequently than normal. Few of the behavioral responses of such females to territorial intrusions appeared to be significantly altered. We conclude that the changes in nest site defense which accompany DDE contamination are of minor importance in the associated reproductive failure of falcons.
10.1525/cond.2013.120085|In many bird species, double brooding (producing a second brood after successfully rearing a first) is a common reproductive strategy that can greatly increase reproductive output. However, the proportion of breeding pairs that produce a second brood varies considerably from year to year. Here, we examine how environmental factors such as weather patterns and individual factors such as clutch size, the females body mass, and date of breeding affect the rate of double brooding in a population of the Western Bluebird (
10.1525/cond.2011.100135|More accurate estimates of survival after nestlings fledge are needed for population models to be parameterized and population dynamics to be understood during this vulnerable life stage. The period after fledging is the time when chicks learn to fly, forage, and hide from predators. We monitored postfledging survival, cause-specific mortality, and movements of Grasshopper Sparrows (
4500967| Although mesic tundra is a habitat commonly used by arctic-nesting geese, their feeding ecology in this habitat is little known compared to wetlands. Our objectives were to determine the diet and food selection of Greater Snow Goose (Chen caerulescens atlantica) goslings in relation to the nutritional quality of plants growing in mesic tundra habitats on Bylot Island, Nunavut, Canada. We used two different but complementary approaches: examination of esophageal contents of sacrificed wild goslings, and direct observation of the feeding activity of captive, human-imprinted goslings. The latter method was innovative and provided a reliable description of the diet, with results comparable to those obtained from wild goslings. Although mesic habitats have a more diverse floristic composition than wetlands and sparse graminoid cover, Gramineae were preferentially selected and dominated the diet (~50%). The rest of the diet consisted mainly of members of the Juncaceae, Polygonaceae, and Leguminosae families. The diet of very young goslings was diverse, but as they aged and gained efficiency, they concentrated on a few taxa. Goslings ate mostly leaves (~80%), but flowers (~20%) were also important. Food selection was influenced by nitrogen and total phenolic compounds content of plants, but the ratio of phenolic compounds to nitrogen in plant organs was most determinative of food choice. Neutral detergent fiber content of plants did not influence plant selection. Both plant nutritional quality and availability determined gosling diet across different mesic habitats and growing goslings appeared to maximize their intake of metabolizable proteins. /// Aunque la tundra hmeda es un ambiente usado comnmente por los gansos que nidifican en el rtico, la ecologa alimentaria en este ambiente es poco conocida en comparacin con la de los humedales. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar la dieta y la seleccin de alimentos de los polluelos de Chen caerulescens atlantica en relacin con la calidad nutricional de las plantas que crecen en los ambientes hmedos de la tundra en la Isla Bylot, Nunavut, Canad. Usamos dos enfoques diferentes pero complementarios: exmenes del contenido del esfago de polluelos silvestres sacrificados y observacin directa de la actividad de alimentacin de polluelos cautivos que se vieron sujetos a impronta por parte de humanos. El ltimo mtodo fue innovador y brind una descripcin confiable de la dieta, con resultados comparables a aquellos obtenidos para polluelos silvestres. Aunque los ambientes hmedos poseen una composicin florstica ms diversa que los humedales y que la cobertura rala de pastos, las gramneas fueron seleccionadas con preferencia y dominaron la dieta (~50%). El resto de la dieta estuvo constituida principalmente por elementos de las familias Juncaceae, Polygonaceae y Leguminosae. La dieta de los polluelos ms jvenes fue diversa, pero a medida que envejecieron y se tornaron ms eficientes, se concentraron en unos pocos taxones. Los polluelos comieron principalmente hojas (~80%), pero las flores (~20%) tambin fueron importantes. La seleccin de los alimentos estuvo influenciada por el contenido de nitrgeno y de compuestos fenlicos totales en las plantas, pero el cociente entre compuestos fenlicos y nitrgeno en los rganos de las plantas determin en gran medida la seleccin de los alimentos. El contenido de fibras neutras de detergente de las plantas no influenci la seleccin de las plantas. Tanto la calidad nutricional de las plantas como su disponibilidad determinaron la dieta de los polluelos a travs de los diferentes ambientes hmedos y los polluelos en crecimiento parecieron maximizar el consumo de protenas metabolizables. 
10.2307/1366890| We observed aerial activities of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) at three separate breeding colonies located at East Shoal Lake, Manitoba, Canada, in 1981 to 1983. The onset of flights over a colony occurred 36  2 days before the onset of hatching in the same colony. In each year, flights were concentrated over a single colony on any given day but differed between days. Newly arriving spring migrants were significantly more likely to be attracted to the particular colony over which most of the flights were occurring at the time of their arrival. Our results provide evidence that conspicuous flights serve to attract other pelicans to a currently active colony site, and may thereby facilitate the formation of highly synchronous breeding aggregations in this species. 
10.1525/cond.2012.100140|We explored the breeding biology of the Northern Pygmy-Owl (
10.2307/1370327|We monitored 259 nests of six Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) hosts within old-field habitat on James Island, South Carolina during the 1997 and 1998 breeding seasons to determine the effect of parasitism on three nest-survival parameters (clutch size, hatching rate, and number of fledglings). We determined daily predation and parasitism rates, and probability of nest abandonment after parasitism to derive an estimate of seasonal fecundity. Clutch size of parasitized nests was reduced in four host species. Brood parasitism did not affect hatching rate in any species, and reduced the number of fledglings from only Blue Grosbeak (Guiraca caerulea) nests. Despite brood reduction during the nesting cycle, cowbird parasitism had little impact on seasonal fecundity of these host species because of low parasitism intensity, double-brooding behavior, and hosts' ability to raise their own young with cowbird young.
10.1525/cond.2011.100100|For a single lineage of birds, the diversity of mating systems and parental care among shorebirds (Charadrii) is high, which has made them an important group for investigations of the evolution of social mating systems. From 2003 to 2007, we studied a population of the Upland Sandpiper (
10.2307/1367216|In order to determine the preferred dispersion of a population of breeding Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) in Ontario, we set up an abundant supply of nest boxes with a variety of distances between them. The 72 boxes were arranged in 12 equidistantly spaced spirals. Within a spiral, the distance between boxes was much smaller than between spirals. Over five breeding seasons, we observed the order and positions in which swallows settled in the spirals. Pairs of swallows usually settled in empty spirals before settling in spirals occupied by conspecifics, but they did not avoid nesting in spirals occupied by Eastern Blue-birds (Sialia sialis). Swallows did not show any spacing preferences when their nearest neighbors were in different spirals, and were therefore more than 36 m away. Within spirals, however, swallows nested as far as possible from each other when their nests were less than 14 days apart. Swallow nests in the same spiral also tended to be spaced out temporally. We conclude that, over the range of distances within a spiral, Tree Swallows prefer to space their nests as far from conspecifics as possible. The observed spacing pattern probably arises from territorial behavior that is directed toward defense of a nest site from intruders.
10.2307/1368396| Behavior of pairs of Cackling Canada Geese (Branta canadensis minima) was studied on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska, during the brood-rearing period in 1978 and 1979. Foraging time consisted of cycles of alert postures followed by periods of grazing, when individuals searched for, or consumed, food. Females had shorter alert periods (x = 5.58 sec) than males (x = 8.04 sec) during all four possible time periods (two time periods in each of 2 years), although differences were significant in only one of these periods. Females also had significantly longer grazing periods than males (x = 10.67 sec vs. 8.42 sec) during three of the four time periods. Females spent an average of 74% and 58% of foraging periods actually grazing prior to and during the molt, respectively, whereas males spent only 52% and 58% of foraging time grazing during these two time periods. Less vigilance by females relative to males resulted in females spending a greater percentage of their total time budget grazing, although the difference was significant only before the molt in 1979. The proportion of foraging periods in which adults were alert was positively related to the number of goslings in their broods for both sexes, but when pairs associated with no goslings were removed from the analyses, the relationship was no longer significant for females. These data support the hypothesis that long-term monogamy in geese is beneficial in part because males are able to assume greater responsibility for vigilance after hatching, allowing females to replace depleted protein and lipid reserves. The relationship between alert behavior and brood size does not support a recent model of parental investment which predicts no such relationship (Lazarus and Inglis 1986). 
10.2307/1368323| A cladistic analysis of 19 characters was used to investigate the phylogeny of the Schiffornis group, a monophyletic assemblage of six genera of suboscine passerines which are currently placed in three different tyrannoid families: Schiffornis (Pipridae, manakins), Laniisoma, Iodopleura (Cotingidae, cotingas), Laniocera, Xenopsaris, and Pachyramphus (Tyrannidae, tyrant flycatchers). The character systems analyzed include syringeal and cranial morphology, plumage, and nest architecture. Monophyly of the Schiffornis group was supported by two syringeal synapomorphies. Within the group, the phylogenetic relationships of five of the six genera were resolved; Schiffornis is the sister group to Laniisoma and Laniocera, and Xenopsaris is the sister group of Pachyramphus. The relationship of Iodopleura to these two corroborated clades was not resolved. The higher-level relationships of the Schiffornis group to other tyrannoids was not resolved. Results of two previous biochemical phylogenies of tyrannoids both corroborate and conflict with this morphological hypothesis. Comparative analysis of the evolution of breeding systems in tyrannoids indicates that polygyny may have developed independently within the group, resulting in the evolution of a novel form a male advertisement behavior without conspicuous sexual dimorphism and a distinct type of spatial dispersion of male territories. /// Un anlisis cladstico de 19 caractersticas se emplea para investigar las relacines filogenticas del grupo Schiffornis, un conjunto monofiltico de seis gneros, los cuales se ubican ahora en tres familias diferentes en la superfamilia Tyrannoidea: Schiffornis (Pipridae), Laniisoma, Iodopleura (Cotingidae), Laniocera, Xenopsaris, y Pachyramphus (Tyrannidae). Las caractersticas empleadas incluyen la morfologa de la siringe y del craneo, el plumaje, y la estructura del nido. La posicin del grupo Schiffornis en Tyrannoidea no se ha determinado. Dentro del grupo, las relacines de cinco de los seis gneros fueron resueltas por la hiptesis filogentica mas parsimoniosa, es decir, aquella que requiere el menor numero de caractersticas derivados. Schiffornis es ms cercano a un linaje que consiste de Laniisoma y Laniocera; y Xenopsaris es ms cercano a Pachyramphus. Las relacines de Iodopleura no eran resolvado. La comparacin de estos resultados con dos hipteses filogenticas bioqumicas resulta similitudes y conflictos. Un anlisis comparativo de la evolucin de los comportamientos reproductivos en Tyrannoidea indica que polygnia se ha desarollado independientemente en el grupo Schiffornis. Tambin en el groupo Schiffornis, se han desarollado nuevos tipos de dispersin territorial y anuncio nupcial de los machos sin dimorfismo sexual. 
1370568| Degradation, fragmentation, and loss of native sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) landscapes have imperiled these habitats and their associated avifauna. Historically, this vast piece of the Western landscape has been undervalued: even though more than 70% of all remaining sagebrush habitat in the United States is publicly owned, <3% of it is protected as federal reserves or national parks. We review the threats facing birds in sagebrush habitats to emphasize the urgency for conservation and research actions, and synthesize existing information that forms the foundation for recommended research directions. Management and conservation of birds in sagebrush habitats will require more research into four major topics: (1) identification of primary land-use practices and their influence on sagebrush habitats and birds, (2) better understanding of bird responses to habitat components and disturbance processes of sagebrush ecosystems, (3) improved hierarchical designs for surveying and monitoring programs, and (4) linking bird movements and population changes during migration and wintering periods to dynamics on the sagebrush breeding grounds. This research is essential because we already have seen that sagebrush habitats can be altered by land use, spread of invasive plants, and disrupted disturbance regimes beyond a threshold at which natural recovery is unlikely. Research on these issues should be instituted on lands managed by state or federal agencies because most lands still dominated by sagebrush are owned publicly. In addition to the challenge of understanding shrubsteppe bird-habitat dynamics, conservation of sagebrush landscapes depends on our ability to recognize and communicate their intrinsic value and on our resolve to conserve them. /// La degradacin, fragmentacin y prdida de paisajes nativos de matorrales de Artemisia spp. han puesto en peligro a estos ambientes y su avifauna asociada. Histricamente, esta vasta porcin del paisaje occidental ha sido subvalorada: aunque ms del 70% de todo el hbitat de matorral de Artemisia de los Estados Unidos es de propiedad pblica, <3% de ste es protegido por reservas federales o parques nacionales. En este artculo revisamos las amenazas a las que se enfrentan las aves de los matorrales de Artemisia para enfatizar la urgencia de emprender acciones de conservacin e investigacin, y sintetizamos la informacin existente que constituye la base para una serie de directrices de investigacin recomendadas. El manejo y conservacin de las aves de los matorrales de Artemisia necesitar ms investigacin en cuatro tpicos principales: (1) la identificacin de prcticas primarias de uso del suelo y su influencia sobre los ambientes y las aves de Artemisia, (2) un mejor entendimiento de las respuestas de las aves a componentes del hbitat y a procesos de disturbio de los ecosistemas de Artemisia, (3) el mejoramiento de diseos jerrquicos para programas de censos y monitoreos y (4) la conexin de los movimientos de las aves y los cambios poblacionales durante la migracin y en los perodos de invernada con la dinmica en las reas reproductivas de matorrales de Artemisia. Estas investigaciones son esenciales porque ya hemos visto que los ambientes de Artemisia pueden ser alterados por el uso del suelo, la diseminacin de plantas invasoras y la disrupcin de los regmenes de disturbio ms all de un umbral en el que la recuperacin natural es poco probable. La investigacin en estos asuntos debe instituirse en tierras manejadas por agencias estatales o federales porque la mayora de las tierras an dominadas por Artemisia son de propiedad pblica. Adems del desafo de entender la dinmica aves-hbitat en las estepas arbustivas, la conservacin de los paisajes de matorral de Artemisia depende de nuestra habilidad de reconocer y comunicar su valor intrnseco y de nuestra decisin para conservarlos. 
10.2307/1367603|We evaluated the reproductive performance of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) nesting on the periphery and in the center of a colony in northern Lake Superior in 1976 and 1977. The center and periphery of this colony were not subject to flooding, predation or differential human disturbance. Egg-laying, clutch size, hatching and fledging success, and nest attentiveness did not differ significantly between peripheral and central clutches. The colony population has increased in size during the last five years and become stabilized, whereby peripheral and central areas are now being occupied simultaneously. In this study, reproductive performance was related more to the timing than the location of nesting.
10.2307/1368883|Sooty Shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) migrate to waters of the North Pacific Ocean each spring after nesting on colonies in the South Pacific. Their numbers and habitat affinities off California were investigated during 60 aerial and 24 ship surveys in 1975 to 1978 and 1980 to 1983. Population densities computed monthly indicated arrival throughout California waters in late March and departure of most birds from southern California one to two months earlier than in waters to the north. Peak densities exceeded 10 birds km<sup>-2</sup> over the shelf and upper continental slope off central California for two to six months each year but reached these levels on only a few occasions in northern and southern California. Densities in all areas generally were highest in late spring and reached secondary peaks in mid- to late summer after variable declines from the spring peak. Populations are estimated to total 2.2 to 4.2 million birds in May, June, or July, depending on year and method of calculation. Population turnover may be rapid; total numbers of birds migrating through the area may be much higher than the "instantaneous" population. Shearwaters concentrated in relatively shallow, cool waters, especially where strong thermal gradients marked the edges of upwellings.
4151045| Reliable estimates of nest survival are essential for assessing strategies for avian conservation. We review the history of modifications and alternatives for estimating nest survival, with a focus on four techniques: apparent nest success, the Mayfield estimator, the Stanley method, and program MARK. The widely used Mayfield method avoids the known positive bias inherent in apparent nest success by estimating daily survival rates using the number of exposure days, eliminating the need to monitor nests from initiation. Concerns that some of Mayfield's assumptions were restrictive stimulated the development of new techniques. Stanley's method allows for calculation of stage-specific daily survival rates when transition and failure dates are unknown, and eliminates Mayfield's assumption that failure occurred midway through the nest-check interval. Program MARK obviates Mayfield's assumption of constant daily survival within nesting stages and evaluates variation in nest survival as a function of biologically relevant factors. These innovative methods facilitate the evaluation of nest survival using an information-theoretic approach. We illustrate use of these methods with Lark Bunting (Calamospiza melanocorys) nest data from the Pawnee National Grassland, Colorado. Nest survival estimates calculated using Mayfield, Stanley, and MARK methods were similar, but apparent nest success estimates ranged 1- 24 greater than the other estimates. MARK analysis revealed that survival of Lark Bunting nests differed between site-year groups, declined with both nest age and time in season, but did not vary with weather parameters. We encourage researchers to use these approaches to gain reliable and meaningful nest survival estimates. /// Es esencial contar con estimaciones confiables de la supervivencia de nidos para evaluar las estrategias de conservatin de las aves. Revisamos la historia de modificaciones y las alternativas para estimar la supervivencia de nidos, enfocndonos en cuatro tcnicas: xito aparente del nido, el estimador de Mayfield, el mtodo de Stanley y el programa MARK. El mtodo de Mayfield, ampliamente usado, evita el conocido sesgo positivo inherente al xito aparente del nido mediante la estimatin de tasas de supervivencia diaria usando el nmero de das de expositin, eliminando as la necesidad de monitorear los nidos desde el inicio. Las preocupaciones de que algunos de los supuestos del mtodo de Mayfield son restrictivos estimularon el desarrollo de nuevas tcnicas. El mtodo de Stanley permite el clculo de tasas de supervivencia diarias especficas para cada etapa cuando las fechas de transitin y fracaso son desconocidas, y elimina el supuesto del mtodo de Mayfield que sostiene que el fracaso ocurre en el medio del intervalo de monitoreo del nido. El programa MARK elimina el supuesto del mtodo de Mayfield sobre supervivencia diaria constante dentro de las etapas de nidificacin y evala la variatin en la supervivencia de nidos como funcin de factores biolgicamente relevantes. Estos mtodos innovadores facilitan la evaluation de la supervivencia de nidos usando un enfoque terico-informativo. Ilustramos el uso de estos mtodos con datos de nidos de Calamospiza melanocorys provenientes de Pawnee National Grassland, Colorado. Las estimaciones de supervivencia de los nidos calculadas usando los mtodos de Mayfield, Stanley y MARK fueron similares, pero las estimaciones del xito aparente de los nidos fueron entre 1-24% mayores que las otras estimaciones. Los anlisis con MARK revelaron que la supervivencia de los nidos de C. melanocorys difiri entre grupos de sitio-ao, disminuy con la edad del nido y el tiempo de la estacin, pero no vari con parmetros climticos. Estimulamos a los investigadores a usar estos enfoques para obtener estimaciones de supervivencia de nidos confiables y vlidas. 
10.2307/1370063|We studied the ecology of the Golden-cheeked Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) during three winter seasons, 1995-1998, in Honduras, Guatemala, and Mexico. Individuals of this species occurred almost exclusively as members of mixed-species flocks, occupying sites with greater densities of encino oak and ground cover and fewer pines than random sites. Most foraging observations were recorded in mid-story, encino oak. Commonly-observed foraging maneuvers were gleaning and sally-hovering. Eighty-three percent of foraging maneuvers were directed at the outermost portions of the oak foliage. Flocks in which Golden-cheeked Warblers occurred contained an average of 20.5 individuals and 12.9 species other than Golden-cheeked Warblers. The most frequently co-occurring species were Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla), Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens), Hermit Warbler (D. occidentalis), Townsend's Warbler (D. townsendi), and Blue-headed Vireo (Vireo solitarius). The ratio of males to females observed was not substantially different from 1:1, and there was little evidence of sexual differences in habitat use. Golden-cheeked Warblers appeared to be tolerant of moderate levels of logging and grazing, but understory clearing to promote grazing for cattle may pose a significant threat to winter habitat availability.
10.1525/cond.2011.100178|We used feathers from adult Gyrfalcons (
10.2307/1367373|Dispersal behavior of a color-marked population of the communal White-browed Sparrow Weaver (Plocepasser mahali) was studied over a three-year period in Zambia, Africa. Birds invaded communal groups having a higher occurrence of preferred feeding cover more than groups with low occurrence. Successful invasions were negatively correlated with the size of the group, perhaps because of group territorial defense. Movements that resulted in a bird staying in a group for at least six months or that resulted in a breeding attempt during this period were more frequent in smaller groups than larger groups. These movements, combined with female helpers who became breeders at their natal site, were used to approximate birth-to-breeding distances. The mean distance of this sample was 205 m, with a skewed distribution toward short distances. Excluding cases in which birds bred in the natal group, there was not significant difference in distances traveled by males and females. Cohorts from a group periodically invaded a neighboring group, frequently resulting in the disappearance of the invaded group's breeding female. Her replacement was by a member of the invading cohort. Individuals who dispersed relatively far appeared unable to breed as quickly as birds dispersing a short distance. Monitoring resources within the neighborhood while remaining at the natal site may be an adaptive habit for making a sedentary life style compatible with a successful dispersal phase.
10.2307/1369997|The copulatory behavior of the monogamous Montagu's Harrier (Circus pygargus) was studied between 1992 and 1995 near Madrid, Spain. Copulations started around 20 days before laying, and typically stopped at the end of the laying period. Copulation frequency peaked just before the start of the laying period, averaging 2.2 copulations day<sup>-1</sup>. Females copulated on average 39 times per brood. Copulation rates apparently were not related to food provisioning by males except in the early pre-laying period. At least 5 and up to 11 (4-8%) of the copulations observed were extra-pair copulations (EPCs), and all occurred within the fertile period. Montagu's Harriers increased their copulation rate in situations of increased EPC risk: solitary pairs copulated for a shorter period of time and at an overall lower frequency, whereas pairs nesting in clumps showed higher copulation rates with increasing number of neighboring pairs. This increase was most marked during the laying period, when there is a higher risk of EPCs producing extra-pair fertilizations.
10.2307/1370245|We investigated factors affecting incubation time and metabolic rates of Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) eggs incubated under constant environmental conditions. Time required to reach the star-pipped stage of hatch varied significantly among females, but not with laying sequence or egg size. Metabolic rate of eggs varied positively with position in the laying sequence and tended to vary among females. Metabolic rate did not vary with egg volume or incubation length. Our results indicate metabolic rate may act as one synchronization mechanism for hatch. The role of maternal effects in development time should be considered in subsequent studies of incubation time in ducks.
10.2307/1368533| Migrant American Kestrels (Falco sparverius sparverius) wintering in southcentral Florida showed marked segregation of the sexes due to differential habitat use. Females typically occupied territories in pastures, mowed hayfields, and recently planted citrus groves. Males were observed primarily along the margins of slash pine (Pinus elliotii) woodlots, eucalyptus (Eucalyptus spp.) plantations, and cypress (Taxodium distichum) sloughs, and within scrubby flatwoods, mature citrus groves, and residential areas. Although males were found in less open habitats, both sexes utilized the same type of hunting substrate: short grasses and weedy forbs <25 cm in height. Pellet analysis revealed that both sexes fed exclusively on arthropods. Male and female territories differed in the proportion of area covered by suitable hunting substrate (median values of 0.30 and 0.60, respectively). Additionally, the more numerous and larger trees or shrubs characteristic of male territories formed a visual barrier such that a smaller proportion of the available hunting substrate was visible from any one perch. Differential prey availability was evident from differences between male and female activity budgets; males allotted more time toward foraging and less time toward preening. In addition, males were more likely to attack novel prey items, and males experienced a greater loss of body mass during a period when ambient temperatures <0C reduced arthropod prey availability. The evidence supports the hypothesis that female territories were of superior foraging quality. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120073|Temporal stability in the acoustic structure of dialect songs is a critical variable for studies of cultural evolution in songbirds. Here we report that the structure of the flight whistle song of Brown-headed Cowbirds (
10.1525/cond.2012.110086|Polymorphisms of the juvenal plumage in birds have received little study in comparison to other plumages. We investigate a polymorphism in the juvenal plumage of the Yellow Warbler (
1370360| We used DNA fingerprinting to document serial polyandry in a double-brooded female Long-eared Owl (Asio otus) in western Montana. We also determined that an extra male that helped provision offspring at a nest was a close relative of the female parent. The nest had split paternity, and it is not clear whether the helper was the sire or brother of two of the four nestlings. These data constitute the first known cases of serial polyandry and alloparenting in Long-eared Owls and leave open the question of whether cooperative polyandry also occurs in this species. /// Empleamos huellas dactilares genticas (i.e., DNA fingerprinting) para documentar poliandra en serie en una hembra de Asio otus que present dos nidadas, en el oeste de Montana. Tambin determinamos que un macho extra-pareja que ayud a abastecer a los pichones en un nido era un pariente cercano de la madre. El nido present paternidad compartida y no est claro si el ave que ayudaba era el padre o el hermano de dos de los cuatro polluelos. Estos datos representan el primer caso conocido de poliandra en serie y alopaternidad en Asio otus, y deja abierta la pregunta si en esta especie tambin ocurre poliandra cooperativa. 
10.2307/1367443| Field and laboratory investigations were conducted to assess the effects of selected stressors on White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii and Z. l. pugetensis). Within a few minutes after capture during the non-breeding winter phase, the birds' plasma corticosterone increased, whereas their already low levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) and dihydrotesterone (DHT) declined further. In contrast, in the summer, or breeding phase, corticosterone levels increased much more slowly (sometimes not at all in females) during the first hour after capture. Plasma levels of LH in breeding birds were unaffected by capture and handling, as were levels of DHT in males and estrogen in females. In some cases, however, circulating levels of testosterone declined in males. In photostimulated, caged, male Z. l. gambelii circulating levels of corticosterone, LH, and DHT appeared to be unaffected by ambient temperatures between 5 and 32C, but the level of testosterone was significantly depressed at 32C. Capture, transport for 250 km, and subsequent caging of male and female Z. l. gambelii in autumn and winter within 24 h increased plasma corticosterone, and decreased LH and DHT. As the birds acclimated to captivity, a decrease in levels of corticosterone was followed by transient elevations of LH and DHT after which concentrations of these hormones stabilized at capture levels. Males transferred from outdoor aviaries and held one, two, or three per cage on short days also developed elevated concentrations of corticosterone and depressed levels of LH and DHT. Corticosterone decreased within two weeks in birds held one or two per cage, and within three weeks in those housed three per cage. As corticosterone levels decreased, transient increases occurred in LH and DHT, with the highest levels in birds held three per cage. 
10.2307/1366992|Aggressive behavior of six species of dabbling ducks was studied from November through February in 1978-1979 and 1979-1980, to investigate effects of dominance on distribution of sexes. Eighty-nine percent of aggressive interactions (n = 1,266) were intraspecific. Rate and intensity of aggression remained approximately stable throughout winter. Sex, pair status and aggressiveness influenced dominance rank. Individuals initiating conflicts usually won the encounters. In intraspecific interactions, males dominated females when both were either paired or unpaired, but paired individuals dominated unpaired individuals regardless of sex. Early pair-formation may be advantageous in wintering dabbling ducks because the resulting higher dominance may give better access to food. Sex ratios differed among the six species. Males predominated in all species; however, species that formed pair bonds early in the winter had less disparate sex ratios than species pairing later. Differences in sex ratios among species may have been in response to the influence that pair status had on dominance rank. Paired females were more dominant than unpaired females and were protected by their mates from engaging in aggressive encounters. Females of late-pairing species remained subordinate for a greater proportion of the fall and winter. We suggest that females of late-pairing species are more likely to be excluded from preferred feeding sites, which may necessitate moving to other areas. These results support the hypothesis that behavioral dominance influences differential distribution of males and females during the nonbreeding period.
10.2307/1368522|Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) in the southeastern United States decreased from 10,000 breeding pairs in 1960 to 2,500-5,000 pairs in the late 1970s. The number of breeding pairs appeared to increase to 5,000-6,000 by the mid-1980s. Since the mid-1970s, the center of breeding in the southeastern United States has shifted north. Fewer birds have nested in the traditional southern Florida colonies, while the number of pairs nesting in northern Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina has been increasing annually. Storks nesting in the northern colonies appear to be reproductively more successful than those in the south, which may explain the increase in total numbers.
10.2307/1368443|The relationship between breeding, molt, and migration of Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) was studied on the southwest coast of James Bay, Ontario from 1982 to 1984. Breeding chronology was similar in each year, with a mean fledging date of 11 to 12 July. Color-banded individuals regularly overlapped molt and care of fledglings. Known-breeding males began remigial molt 8.1 days after young fledged (range = 1-19 days), females 12.3 days (range = 9-15 days). The population mean date of molt onset was 17 July for males, and 22 July for females. Females molted significantly more rapidly than males, and both sexes completed molt on the mean date of 28 August. There were marked behavioral differences between the sexes during molt. Males typically remained on territories, advertising their presence with song. Females showed little site attachment, wandering over the study area or dispersing. Both sexes gained weight during the early and middle periods of molt, but lost weight prior to migration. Most birds began migrating during the final stages of remigial molt. Depletion of insect food and deteriorating weather in late summer appear to have selected for a rapid, intense molt of 35 to 45 days, during which some birds may become virtually flightless. The importance of maintaining thermoregulatory abilities and high rates of feeding may constrain further reduction in molt duration. The need for maintaining peak flight efficiency during fledgling care and migration may have partially determined the scheduling of molt in this population.
10.2307/1367075|Brown fat, the multilocular fat involved in non-shivering thermogenesis in many mammals, is generally believed to be absent in birds. Physiological data indicate that non-shivering thermogenesis does not occur in adult birds. Adipose tissues from a Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) and two Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) were found to show typical histological and ultrastructural features of mammalian brown fat. The cells of these tissues were polygonal with central nuclei, multiple lipid droplets and numerous well-developed mitochondria. An extensive capillary bed permeated the tissue. Although no direct demonstration of thermogenesis by this tissue was attempted, its remarkable similarity to mammalian brown fat suggests that non-shivering thermogenesis in birds should be reinvestigated.
4500964| The breeding ecology of south temperate bird species is less widely known than that of north temperate species, yet because they comprise a large portion of the world's avian diversity, knowledge of their breeding ecology can contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the geographic diversity of avian reproductive traits and life history strategies. We provide the first detailed examination of the reproductive strategies of 18 forest passerines of subtropical, northwestern Argentina. Mean clutch sizes were smaller and egg mass was greater than for north temperate birds, but differed among species and nest types, with cavity-nesters having larger clutches than species with open-cup and enclosed nests. Across all species, the average breeding season duration was 50 days; thus, the common perception that southern species have smaller clutch sizes because of longer breeding seasons is not supported in this community. Daily nest predation rates were influenced by nest type, cavity nests suffering the least from predation, as found in north temperate systems. Only females incubated eggs in all but one species, whereas both parents fed and cared for nestlings in all species. Mean nest attentiveness was low compared to north temperate passerines. Mean hourly nestling feeding rates differed among species and were negatively related to nest predation risk. In short, coexisting species in this subtropical forest varied in their life history strategies, in part correlated with variation in nest predation risk, but also differing from north temperate species. /// La biologa reproductiva de aves del hemisferio sur es menos conocida que la de las del hemisferio norte. Dado que las aves del hemisferio sur comprenden una gran parte de la diversidad de especies de aves, su conocimiento contribuye a entender mejor la diversidad geogrfica de su biologa reproductiva y de sus estrategias de historias de vida. Aqu brindamos el primer estudio detallado sobre las estrategias reproductivas de 18 especies de aves canoras del noroeste subtropical de Argentina. El tamao promedio de la nidada fue menor y el peso de los huevos fue mayor que el de las aves de las zonas templadas del hemisferio Norte. Estos parmetros tambin fueron diferentes entre especies y tipos de nido, siendo los nidos en cavidades los que presentaron nidadas ms grandes, en comparacin con los nidos en forma de taza abierta y cerrada. En promedio, para todas las especies de esta comunidad, la temporada reproductiva dur 50 das, lo cual debilita la percepcin comn de que las aves del sur tienen nidadas ms pequeas debido a temporadas reproductivas ms largas. La tasa de depredacin diaria estuvo influenciada por el tipo de nido, siendo los nidos en cavidades los que sufren la menor depredacin, al igual que en el hemisferio norte. Con excepcin a una especie, en todas las especies la hembra es la nica que incuba, mientras que ambos padres alimentan y cuidan a los polluelos. El promedio de atencin al nido fue bajo en comparacin con las aves canoras del hemisferio norte. La tasa promedio de alimentacin de polluelos por hora vari entre especies y estuvo negativamente correlacionada con el riesgo de depredacin. En conclusin, las especies que coexisten en este bosque subtropical varan en sus estrategias de historia de vida en correlacin con el riesgo de depredacin de los nidos, y tambin difieren de las especies de las zonas templadas del hemisferio Norte. 
1369687|We investigated whether woodpecker drums are exchanged interspecifically and attempted to ascertain the drum variables responsible for species recognition. Playback experiments were conducted on four woodpecker species (Nuttall's Picoides nuttallii, White-headed P. albolarvatus, Hairy P. villosus, and Downy P. pubescens Woodpeckers) comparing behavioral responses to sympatric hetero- and conspecific drums. There was a significant difference in behavioral responses to sympatric hetero- versus conspecific drums; individuals responded less intensely to drums of heterospecifics when drum cadences were dissimilar. Allopatric species drums with similar cadences were used to examine whether cadence was a variable that encodes species identity. There was no significant difference between responses to allopatric hetero- versus conspecific drums with a similar cadence, indicating that the drum's cadence encodes information for species recognition. Further playbacks eliminated drum duration and spectral properties as important variables for species recognition. Results suggest that if an individual drums at a similar cadence to a sympatric heterospecific, then their signal may elicit a conspecific response.
10.2307/1368393| We studied autumn foraging flocks of European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) foraging on grass lawns to determine how flock size (up to ca. 250 individuals) and position within the flock (edge vs. center) affect the birds' foraging behavior. The birds fed exclusively by probing their bills into the ground, gaping, and extracting beetle larvae or earthworms, which were directly observed by us. Neither flock size nor position affected the rate of prey capture. Edge birds, however, spent more time vigilant and probed less than center birds. Rates of agonistic interactions did not differ between flock positions; therefore, the percentage of time actually spent foraging (i.e., walking, searching, and probing) was lower for edge birds due to their higher level of vigilance. The only behaviors affected by flock size were percentage of time spent vigilant and percentage of time spent foraging, but only for edge birds in flocks of 20 individuals. The rate of agonistic interactions did not increase with increasing flock size for edge or center birds. Probe rate was not correlated with prey capture rate, placing caution on indiscriminate use of probe (or peck) rate as an index of prey capture rate. The likely nature of the dispersion pattern of the starling's prey is discussed in relation to our results. 
10.1525/cond.2012.100091|Ratios of stable isotopes in feathers have great potential for identifying the connectivity of bird migrations and the origin of harvested individuals of game species. In particular, the relationship between the hydrogen ratio due to latitudinal variation in precipitation (D
40072362|Open-ended learning of flight calls has been found consistently in the subfamily Carduelinae. Understanding call learning is especially important in Red Crossbills (
10.2307/1369727|We added artificial Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) eggs to Gray Kingbird (Tyrannus dominicensis) nests in the Bahamas, where Shiny Cowbirds were first recorded in 1993. Gray Kingbirds ejected 85% of artificial eggs within 48 hr of addition. Based upon the short time of contact between the two species, we suggest that egg ejection by Gray Kingbirds in the Bahamas is retention of ejection behavior from ancestral populations.
10.1525/cond.2013.120023|This study investigated seasonal differences in fat deposition and nutritional status of migrating passerine birds at an important stopover site on the south shore of Lake Ontario. Birds were captured during spring and autumn stopovers, and their plasma metabolites were measured as indicators of refueling rates (plasma triglyceride) and nutritional state (plasma uric acid).
10.2307/1368226|A method that detects leapfrog migration is described. It emphasizes the two-step process of leapfrog migration: the seasonal switching of latitudinal ranges and the latitudinal segregation of taxa. The method was used to make a systematic search for leapfrog migration patterns among the North American shorebirds (suborder: Charadrii). One case of intraspecific leapfrog migration, within the Rock Sandpiper Calidris ptilocnemis, and several cases of interspecific leapfrog migration, within Numenius, Limosa, Arenaria, Calidris, Charadriini, Numeniini, Calidridini, Scolopacidae, and Charadrii, were revealed. In most cases, smaller species leapfrog larger species.
90008455|In North America, grassland bird abundances have declined, likely as a result of loss and degradation of prairie habitat. Given the expense and limited opportunity to procure new grasslands, managers are increasingly focusing on ways to improve existing habitat for grassland birds, using techniques such as tree removal. To examine the potential for tree removal to benefit grassland birds, we conducted 446 point counts on 35 grassland habitat patches in the highly fragmented landscape of west-central Minnesota during 2009-2011. We modeled density of four grassland bird species in relation to habitat composition at multiple scales, focusing on covariates that described grass, woody vegetation (trees and large shrubs), or combinations of grass and woody vegetation. The best-supported models for all four grassland bird species incorporated variables measured at multiple scales, including local features such as grass height, litter depth, and local tree abundance, as well as landscape-level measures of grass and tree cover. Savannah Sparrows (
10.1525/cond.2012.110135|In temperate regions of the Southern Hemisphere, avian parental care is understudied, in particular for the neotropical family Furnariidae. We measured rates of nest building, mud carrying, incubation, brooding, feeding, and nest-sanitation behaviors of molecularly sexed Rufous Horneros (
10.2307/1368641|This report attempts to describe objectively the complete vocal repertoire and the vocal code of the Red Junglefowl (Gallus gallus), most probable wild ancestor of the domestic fowl. An unconfined color-banded flock was watched over a period of 6 years at the San Diego Zoo. The general behavior and vocalizations are essentially the same in Red Junglefowl and the domestic fowl. Different vocal signals can be recognized by their sonograms and by the common element in the various situations in which a signal is given. Twenty-four vocal signals are described but because of intergradation between some signals and between different situations no absolute size of vocal repertoire can be fixed. A spectrographic (structural) key to the vocal signals of the Red Junglefowl is given and with the sonograms should enable one to identify the typical calls. Different elements can be combined to produce specific vocal signals, in effect a code. Brief, soft repetitive notes of low frequency are attraction calls. Loud harsh sounds with high frequencies are alarm cries. Harsh sounds emphasizing low frequencies are threat sounds. These rules hold for many other birds. Junglefowl also have special calls that appear to indicate well-being, or mild disturbance and frustration. The evolution of the vocal signals of the Red Junglefowl is discussed in relation to Darwin's (1872) three principles of communication and to modern ethology.
4096493| We collected unincubated eggs from wild Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), Gadwall (A. strepera), Blue-winged Teal (A. discors), and Northern Shoveler (A. clypeata) nests and artificially incubated them at 37.5C. Average incubation lengths of Mallard, Gadwall, and Northern Shoveler eggs did not differ from their wild-nesting counterparts, but artificially incubated Blue-winged Teal eggs required an additional 1.7 days to hatch, suggesting that wild-nesting teal incubated more effectively. A small sample of Mallard, Gadwall, and Northern Shoveler eggs artificially incubated at 38.3C hatched 1 day sooner, indicating that incubation temperature affected incubation length. Mean incubation length of Blue-winged Teal declined by 1 day for each 11-day delay in nesting, but we found no such seasonal decline among Mallards, Gadwalls, or Northern Shovelers. There is no obvious explanation for the seasonal reduction in incubation length for Blue-winged Teal eggs incubated in a constant environment, and the phenomenon deserves further study. /// Recolectamos huevos no incubados de nidos de patos silvestres de las especies Anas platyrhynchos, A. strepera, A. discors y A. clypeata y los incubamos artificalmente a 37.5C. La duracin del perdo de incubacin de los huevos de A. platyrhynchos, A. strepera y A. clypeata no difiri de la observada en aves nidificantes silvestres, pero los huevos de A. discors incubados artificialmente tardaron 1.7 das adicionales en eclosionar, lo que sugiere que los individuos silvestres incubaron los huevos con mayor efectividad. Una muestra pequea de huevos de A. platyrhynchos, A. strepera y A. clypeata incubados artificialmente a 38.3C eclosionaron un da ms temprano, lo que indica que la temperatura afecta la duracin del perodo de incubacion. La duracin promedio de la incubacion de A. discors disminuy en un da por cada 11 dias de tardanza en la nidificacin, pero no encontramos disminuciones estacionales de este tipo en A. platyrhynchos, A. strepera y A. clypeata. No existe una explicacin obvia para la reduccion estacional en la duracin de la incubacin de huevos de A. discors incubados en un ambiente constante, un feomeno que requiere ser estudiado en mayor profundidad. 
10.2307/1366898|Body weights were obtained from 213 male American Woodcock (Scolopax minor) that displayed on their territories in coniferous forest in northeastern New Brunswick, 1977 to 1982. Weights were not different between yearling and adult males, between the first males removed and new birds moving into their territories, or between males on territories rated as high-activity vs. low-activity. Weights differed by time of season only in certain years. We conclude that body weight does not influence the ability of male woodcock to occupy a territory.
10.2307/1370431|We present behavioral observations and multilocus DNA fingerprinting data on Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) breeding in the sub-Arctic. We predicted that, where a large time/energy investment by males during incubation and chick-rearing is crucial for successful reproduction, both extra-pair copulation and fertilization rates would be low. Extra-pair copulations were infrequent (7% of total copulations), as were within pair copulations (0.44 hr
10.1525/cond.2010.090042|We report nest and chick survival and colony-site dynamics of the Least Tern (
4151078| Although polygyny can potentially increase male reproductive success, the benefits of this strategy could be offset by losses to extra-pair paternity or reduced offspring survival. We developed microsatellite markers to assess the influence of extrapair offspring (EPO) on reproductive success and paternity in monogamous and polygynous pairs of the facultatively polygynous Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus). Based on genotypes of 140 offspring from 56 clutches over six years, 14% of nestlings in our study population were extra-pair offspring, with 23% of all successful nests containing at least one EPO. We found that polygynous males produced 2.11  0.35 offspring per season, compared to 1.15  0.18 for monogamous males. This increased reproductive success was due primarily to the increased number of nests of polygynous males, as the number of offspring per pair did not differ between monogamous and polygynous males. Twenty of the 140 genotyped nestlings were extrapair offspring. Sires could be assigned to 16 of these; one polygynous male sired two EPO in one nest, two monogamous males sired eight EPO in two nests, and four nonterritorial males sired six EPO in four nests. Overall, these results indicate that in this population, females of polygynous males did not raise a disproportionate number of EPO as a result of the polygynous mating strategy of their mate, and that both territorial and nonterritorial males sired EPO. /// A pesar de que la poliginia puede potencialmente aumentar el xito reproductivo de los machos, el beneficio de esta estrategia puede ser contrarestado por prdidas ocasionadas por la paternidad extra pareja o por la reduccin de la supervivencia de la progenie. Desarrollamos marcadores microsatelitales para determinar la influencia de la progenie extra pareja (PEP) sobre el xito reproductivo y la paternidad en parejas mongamas y polginas de la especie facultativamente poligina Empidonax traillii extimus. Con base en genotipos de 140 cras provenientes de 56 nidadas en seis aos, determinamos que el 14% de los polluelos en nuestra poblacin de estudio fueron PEP y que el 23% de todos los nidos exitosos contuvo por lo menos una PEP. Encontramos que los machos polginos produjeron 2.11  0.35 cras por estacin, en comparacin con 1.15  0.18 cras producidas por machos mongamos. Este xito reproductive mayor se debi principalmente al mayor nmero de nidos de los machos polginos, ya que el nmero de cras por pareja no difiri entre machos mongamos y poliginos. De los 140 polluelos analizados genotpicamente, 20 fueron PEP. Los padres progenitores pudieron ser identificados para 16 de estos polluelos. Un macho polgino engendr dos PEP en un nido, dos machos mongamos engendraron ocho PEP en dos nidos y cuatro machos no territoriales engendraron seis PEP en cuatro nidos. En general, estos resultados indican que en esta poblacin las hembras de machos polginos no criaron un nmero desproporcionado de PEP como resultado de la estrategia de apareamiento polgina de sus parejas y que tanto los machos territoriales como los no territoriales engendraron PEP. 
10.2307/1370237| We compared the diurnal and nocturnal visual function in two tactile foraging waterbird species, the red subspecies of the American White Ibis (Eudocimus ruber ruber, formerly the Scarlet Ibis), which is known to feed exclusively during daytime, and the Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger), which forages primarily during darkness. Live birds were captured in coastal lagoons of northeastern Venezuela. Electroretinograms (ERGs) were obtained at different light intensities from anesthetized birds, and the retinae were subsequently processed for histological observations. The ERGs of the skimmer were of much larger amplitude than those of the ibis in scotopic (rod-mediated) conditions, but, in contrast, under photopic (cone-mediated) conditions, the amplitude of the ERGs always was significantly larger for the ibis than for the skimmer. The scotopic: photopic b-wave ratio, calculated with b-waves obtained at the highest flash luminance, was 6.82:1 for the skimmer and 0.89:1 for the ibis. The retina of the ibis contained, on the average, 18.8 rods/310 m and 56.6 cones/310 m, for a rod: cone ratio of 1:3. The retina of the skimmer contained 90.2 rods/310 m and 16.8 cones/310 m, for a ratio of 5:1. The higher density of rods in the skimmer is in some way counterbalanced by their thinness. Compared to the nocturnally active skimmer, the ibis has highly inferior rod function and, consequently, potentially inferior nocturnal visual capabilities. The latter would seem to explain the temporal differences observed in feeding behaviors of the two species. 
10.2307/1369253| Kleptoparasitism (the stealing of food) by the Magnificent Frigatebird (Fregata magnificens) was recorded over three breeding seasons at Isla Isabel, Nayarit, Mxico. Observation of chases on the principal target, the Blue-footed Booby (Sula nebouxii) were made in front of their joint breeding colonies. Most attacks were conducted by female and juvenile frigatebirds; male frigatebirds were not kleptoparasitic near their breeding colony. The proportion of chases provoking the target to regurgitate (success rate) was low (0.059) and only on 67% of those cases did the frigatebird get any food. Attacks were more frequent in the afternoon, when the boobies were returning to their breeding colony and were likely to be transporting food. In addition, frigatebirds may be evaluating the target's profitability in short chases, since longer chases provided a proportionately higher success. If so, the success reported above underestimates the profitability of these behaviors because it considers all chases equally. Group pursuits were three times more successful than those performed by single individuals. We did not find differences in the success and sexual bias in the kleptoparasitic tendencies between winter (frigatebirds' courtship and laying season) and spring (frigatebirds' feeding season) observations. 
1370530| In 1990 and 1991, we studied Swallow-tailed Kite (Elanoides forficatus yetapa) diets by recording food delivered to nests in northern Guatemala. Kites delivered primarily vertebrates to incubating mates. During the nestling period, 62% of 1496 prey deliveries were insects, 18% nestling birds, and 10% lizards; frogs and fruit were brought infrequently. Coleopterans and hymenopterans were the most frequent insects delivered. Birds comprised most of the biomass. Lizard deliveries were most frequent early in the nesting season, whereas insect prey were infrequent until after the first rains, in late May. Compared to E. f. forficatus in Florida, E. f. yetapa provided more insects and fewer frogs, and did not adjust feeding rates based on brood size. Swallow-tailed Kites delivered more vertebrates, particularly birds, than sympatric Plumbeous Kites (Ictinia plumbea), and used different foraging space and hunting techniques than sympatric Double-toothed Kites (Harpagus bidentata) and Gray-headed Kites (Leptodon cayanensis). /// En 1990 y 1991, estudiamos las dietas del milano Elanoides forficatus yetapa en el norte de Guatemala, registrando el tipo de alimento que fue llevado a los nidos. Los milanos llevaron principalmente vertebrados al miembro de la pareja que incubaba. Durante el perodo de crecimiento de los polluelos, 62% de las 1496 presas llevadas fueron insectos, 18% polluelos de otras especies de aves y 10% lagartijas; en raras ocasiones llevaron frutas y ranas. Los colepteros e himenpteros fueron los insectos ms comnmente utilizados. Las aves formaron la mayor parte de la biomasa. Los milanos llevaron largatijas ms frecuentemente al principio de la nidificacin, mientras que los insectos no fueron frecuentes sino hasta despus del inicio de las primeras lluvias en mayo. En comparacin con E. f. forficatus en Florida, E. f. yetapa llev ms insectos y menos ranas, y no ajust la tasa de alimentacin con relacin al tamao de la nidada. E. forficatus llev ms vertebrados, especialmente aves, que la especie simptrica Ictinia plumbea, y utiliz diferentes espacios de forrajeo y tcnicos de cacera que las especies simptricos Harpagus bidentata y Leptodon cayanensis. 
10.2307/1369116|We quantified the causes and rate of nest desertions in Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) during the egg stage at Punta Tombo, Argentina. Incubating Magellanic Penguins rarely deserted. The average desertion rate during seven years was 11% (SD = 9.2%). Desertions were poorly correlated with the length of the incubation spell and only 25% of the desertion could be accounted for by delayed nest relief. Body condition at the start of the incubation spell appears to be the most important factor in determining desertions. Penguins that deserted were lighter for their body size at the time of egg laying than penguins that did not desert. Desertion was significant and common during the first part of incubation, the time when females are present. Flooded nests were more likely to be deserted than nonflooded nests, but desertions from flooding were few. High temperatures did not increase desertion during incubation, thus it is unlikely that heat stress is an important cause of nest desertion. An individual's body condition appears to be the most important factor in explaining desertion but behavior of the mate and other factors can play a role.
10.2307/1367144|We described geographic variation in the syllabic structure of the song of White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) resident in coastal California. We identified six large and relatively homogeneous populations that differed discretely at one locus in the song, the complex syllable, and have called these "dialect" populations. Two "superdialects" were also identified on the basis of two other loci in the song, the introduction and the ending. Using another part of the song, the simple syllable locus, we also identified large-scale geographic clusters of similarity that were moderately concordant with dialect variation. From the patterns of geographic variation shown by the four song loci, we hypothesize that our study area was colonized by two ancestral populations. The existing song populations are therefore interpreted to be in secondary contact. Relatively narrow zones of "overlap" at dialect borders are identified and their widths estimated. Application of cline theory to the data suggests that 100-200 years have elapsed since secondary contact.
10.2307/1368386|Data from a 15-year study of breeding Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) indicate that body mass varies with sex, year, time of day, and breeding stage. The pattern of mass variation with breeding stage differs for the two sexes. Mean female mass is low during the prebreeding stage (50.3 g), but increases rapidly, reaching its highest level in the laying stage (57.4 g). It is reduced during the incubation (54.2 g) and feeding stages (51.1 g), rises again in the break between broods (53.6 g), but declines in the postbreeding period (50.7 g). Male mass is lowest in the prebreeding stage (46.5 g), but slightly higher in the laying period (48.0 g). It increases in the incubation period (49.4 g), then declines in the feeding (48.3 g) and break stages (47.2 g), but reaches its greatest level in the postbreeding period (49.9 g). Both sexes may be physiologically stressed during the feeding stage, but male stress is probably greater in the prebreeding and break stages.
1370557| We investigated factors influencing nest success in King Eiders (Somateria spectabilis) at Karrak Lake, Nunavut, Canada, during 1995-2001. Island-nesting King Eiders had higher nest success (range 30-89%) than that reported for mainland-nesting populations, and nested at much higher densities (46-198 nests km<sup>-2</sup>) than on mainland, where they were detected infrequently (usually <1 nest km<sup>-2</sup>). Predation was the main cause of nest failure, and King Eider nest success was greater on isolated islands (smaller islands, and larger islands farther from the mainland) that were presumably less accessible to mammalian predators. King Eiders did not derive protection from predators by nesting near gulls (Larus spp.) and Arctic Terns (Sterna paradisaea). /// Investigamos los factores que influencian el xito de nidificacin de Somateria spectabilis en Karrak Lake, Nunavut, Canada, durante 1995-2001. Los individuos que nidifican en las islas presentaron un mayor xito de nidificacin (entre 30-89%) que el reportado para las poblaciones que nidifican en el continente, y anidaron a una mayor densidad que en el continente, donde se detectaron infrecuentemente (usualmente <1 nido km<sup>-2</sup>). La depredacin fue la principal causa de fracaso, y el xito de nidificacin de S. spectabilis fue mayor en islas grandes y pequeas ms alejadas del continente, las que presumiblemente se encontraban menos accesibles a mamferos depredadores. Somateria spectabilis no obtuvo proteccin contra depredadores al nidificar cerca de gaviotas (Larus spp.) y gaviotines Sterna paradisaea. 
10.2307/1370462| We used electronic time-depth recorders to examine the synchronous foraging behavior of penguins both at the surface and underwater. During a daily foraging trip in the chick guarding stage, two females of the Northern Rockhopper Penguin Eudyptes chrysocome moseleyi dove in synchrony over seven consecutive hours during which they performed together 286 dives between 3 and 60 m, and fed on the same prey, the swarming euphausiid Thysanoessa gregaria. Most of the synchronous dives began (71%) and ended (59%) with a time interval of  4 sec between birds. Differences in the duration and maximum depth of dives were slight:  2 sec for 44% and  1 m for 62% of the dives. Indirect evidence suggests that the two birds were part of a larger flock of foraging penguins. One bird initiated and ended 70% of the dives first and consistently dove deeper (95% of the dives) during the deep dives. The close similarity of the two time-depth profiles indicates that the penguins were visually in contact during the dives and suggests a coordinated underwater behavior to search and catch prey. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100040|At night during the breeding season, Xantuss Murrelets (
10.2307/1369741|Broad-scale avian surveys have been attempted within North America with mixed results. Arid regions, such as the Great Basin, are often poorly sampled because of the vastness of the region, inaccessibility of sites, and few ornithologists. In addition, extreme variability in wetland habitat conditions present special problems for conducting censuses of species inhabiting these areas. We examined these issues in assessing multi-scale shorebird (order: Charadriiformes) censuses conducted in the western Great Basin from 1992-1997. On ground surveys, we recorded 31 species of shorebirds, but were unable to accurately estimate population size. Conversely, on aerial surveys we were able to estimate regional abundance of some shorebirds, but were unable to determine species diversity. Aerial surveys of three large alkali lakes in Oregon (Goose, Summer, and Abert Lakes) revealed > 300,000 shorebirds in one year of this study, of which 67% were American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) and 30% phalaropes (Phalaropus spp.). These lakes clearly meet Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network guidelines for designation as important shorebird sites. Based upon simulations of our monitoring effort and the magnitude and variation of numbers of American Avocets, detection of 5-10% negative declines in populations of these birds would take a minimum of 7-23 years of comparable effort. We conclude that a combination of ground and aerial surveys must be conducted at multiple sites and years and over a large region to obtain an accurate picture of the diversity, abundance, and trends of shorebirds in the western Great Basin.
10.2307/1369243|Yearling Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were monitored in captivity to determine individual annual fecundity, patterns of egg-laying, and clutch size. Twenty-five juvenile females were captured in the wild, placed in separate pens, and provided with nests containing eggs and/or mock eggs throughout the breeding season. These females produced a total of 361 eggs over a 68 day breeding period from 16 May to 22 July. Individual fecundity of productive females (n = 22) ranged from 1-40 eggs and averaged 16.4 eggs. Individual laying rates during the laying period ranged from 0.18-0.91 eggs/day and averaged 0.56 eggs/day. Laying patterns were highly variable; one female laid an egg each day for 32 consecutive days. Laying patterns of most females were not significantly different from random and gave no indication that eggs were produced in clutches or sets. The results indicate that Brown-headed Cowbirds are indeterminant layers capable of daily egg production over extended periods and that individual females are capable of producing over 30 eggs in their first breeding season. Given an adequate supply of suitable host nests in the wild, these reproductive traits have clear adaptive significance for an obligate brood parasite.
10.2307/1370225|The molt of adult Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus) on their breeding grounds was studied at three widely separated sites in northeastern North America: North Point, James Bay (NPJB), Ontario; Vermont Institute of Natural Science (VINS), Woodstock, Vermont; and Powdermill Nature Reserve (PNR), Rector, Pennsylvania. Unlike other North American vireos and most other North American passerines, adult Red-eyed Vireos undergo an incomplete molt on the breeding grounds. This molt typically replaces most or all of the body plumage, about half of the wing coverts, the tertials, and the central rectrices. Extent of molt did not differ among localities; however, timing of the molt was 1-2 weeks earlier and onset of molt occurred over a longer period at PNR than at VINS or NPJB. Based on examination of museum specimens, flight feathers not molted on the breeding grounds are replaced on the wintering grounds beginning in early January; average duration of primary molt on the wintering grounds is 78 days. It is unclear whether or not feathers molted on the breeding grounds are molted again at this time. This issue needs to be resolved before Humphrey-Parkes terminology can be applied to breeding and wintering ground molt episodes in this species. Selective advantages associated with a protracted nesting season and with early onset of migration both may have had a role in shaping the molt strategy of adult Red-eyed Vireos. Rapid onset of fall migration following nesting in this seasonally frugivorous species may have been influenced by the phenology of fruit availability and abundance en route to and especially on its Amazonian wintering grounds.
10.1525/cond.2010.080103|Understanding factors affecting space-use patterns can lead to improved knowledge of the ecology and habitat needs of a species. We radiotracked 37 male Swainson's Warblers (
10.2307/1369291|Functional appraisal of the differential survival pattern reported by Bumpus (1899) for House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) prompted this study of morphometric and energy relations of birds collected at a winter roost in Ann Arbor. There was no relation between overall size (mass or Principal Component I score) and total body length of males, but PC-I scores and body mass were correlated significantly in Ann Arbor males and females. Female Ann Arbor sparrows had higher proportionate energy reserves than males and, overall, were predicted to have greater fasting endurance. When body masses of Bumpus' male and female birds were evaluated as a function of their PC-I scores (based on six skeletal measures), survivors of a given gender had the same slope but significantly lower elevation than non-survivors. The consistently higher body mass of non-survivors for a given PC-I score in Bumpus' sample suggests that these birds died of exposure soon after the storm's onset and, consequently, used far less of their energy stores than their surviving counterparts. If the birds classed as survivors by Bumpus were fully representative of House Sparrows enduring the storm of 1898, then larger males and intermediate-sized females were more likely to secure and remain at protected roost sites during the 1898 storm than their less fortunate roostmates. On the other hand, because Bumpus' sample was collected by hand and had a disproportionately low female composition, conclusions about gender differences in pattern of selection in Bumpus' birds must be questioned.
10.1525/cond.2011.110004|Studies of seabird diets may reveal subtle ways in which sympatric species partition resources to facilitate co-existence. We studied the variability and partitioning of diets between the Herring (
10.2307/1368832|Two distinct and sympatric forms of Red Crossbill (Loxia curvirostra) from breeding populations in Virginia and North Carolina were resolved using multivariate analysis of vocalizations and morphology. Five characters were used to describe individually distinctive flight calls of 135 adults which were also measured for a set of nine bill and body size characters. Call notes were bimodal for two characters, and a principal components plot separated birds into two clusters based on call note shape. Univariate distributions of morphological data showed some weak bimodalities and higher coefficients of variation than other passerine bird populations. Distributions along multivariate first principal component axes from morphological data (sexes in separate analyses) were bimodal, dividing fully grown adults into two distinct bill and body size classes. The vocal and morphological multivariate clusterings of individuals were entirely congruent, but no univariate character in either data set could completely separate the two forms. The matrix correlations between vocal and morphological interindividual distances were 0.441 for males and 0.423 for females and were highly significant using Mantel tests. However, within each hypothetical cryptic species, vocal and morphological characteristics were uncorrelated, showing a lack of pattern in the sample beyond the division into two nonreducible clusters. Other vocal differences between the two forms are described, and observations of ecological differences are summarized. The type specimens representing the two names which have been applied to Appalachian crossbills, L. c. pusilla (Gloger 1834) and L. c. minor (Brehm 1845), were compared to birds of known vocalizations. The type of pusilla matched the larger Appalachian form, but the type of minor was smaller than all adult males in the sample. The taxonomic problem of L. curvirostra is discussed, and an argument is made in favor of the species level for the two Appalachian vocal and morphological forms.
10.2307/1368795|Timber harvest in western forests initially interrupts large expanses of old-growth forest with smaller clearcuts. Although the vegetation within the remaining old-growth is still present and intact, there is an increase in forest edges and a reduction in the continuity of the original forest. We compared avian species composition and abundance in four pairs of sites, each pair having an uncut site and one fragmented by small clearcuts in southeastern Wyoming. Fragmented stands were interrupted with strip or patch clearcuts. The abundance of species was also compared among the habitat configurations present on these sites such as forest interiors, meadow edges and clearcuts. Of 16 bird species, Brown Creepers (Certhia americana) and Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus) were the most negatively influenced by fragmentation; Pine Siskins (Carduelis pinus) were the most positively influenced by fragmentation. The distribution of birds among forest interiors and edges suggested the responses to fragmentation were not generally mirrored by preferences or avoidance of forest edges and interiors. The effect of fragmentation may result from the loss of resources from clearcutting or preferences for the type of habitat adjacent to the forest stand (meadows or clearcuts).
1370382| Latitudinal clines in sex ratio during the nonbreeding season occur in some shorebirds of the Scolopacidae. We compared populations of nonbreeding Dunlin (Calidris alpina pacifica) from two latitudes along the Pacific flyway: the Fraser River Delta, British Columbia, and Bolinas Lagoon, California, to determine whether, and to what degree, they exhibited sex ratios consistent with a latitudinal cline. Dunlin are plumage monomorphic, so we used a maximum likelihood model to estimate overall and monthly sex ratios for each population based on culmen length distributions. Sex ratios in the Fraser River Delta were corrected for sex differences in habitat use. Monthly sex ratios were similar at the two sites but varied throughout the winter, likely reflecting differences in seasonal movement patterns between the sexes. Both populations showed an overall bias toward males (Fraser = 61% males, Bolinas = 65% males). Since there is no evidence to support the possibility of a skew toward males in C. a. pacifica as a whole, our data are consistent with some form of latitudinal cline in the sex ratio of C. a. pacifica. However, additional data from the Oregon coast, southern California, and Mexico are required to resolve this question. We also tested the hypothesis that mean body size within each sex is larger at the higher-latitude site (Fraser River Delta), but this did not appear to be the case. /// Durante la poca no reproductiva, algunas aves playeras de la familia Scolopacidae muestran variaciones latitudinales de tipo clinal en la proporcin de sexos. Comparamos poblaciones no reproductivas de Calidris alpina pacifica de dos latitudes a lo largo del corredor de vuelo del Pacfico: (1) el delta del Ro Fraser, British Columbia y (2) la Laguna Bolinas, California para determinar si presentaban (y en qu grado) proporciones de sexos acordes con una clina latitudinal. Debido a que el plumaje en C. a. pacifica es monomrfico, utilizamos un modelo de mxima probabilidad para estimar la proporcin de sexos (general y mensual) de cada problacin con base en distribuciones de la longitud del culmen. Las proporciones de sexos para el delta del Ro Fraser fueron corregidas de acuerdo a diferencias entre sexos en el uso de hbitat. Las proporciones de sexos fueron similares entre los sitios mes a mes, pero variaron a lo largo del invierno, probablemente reflejando diferencias entre sexos en los patrones de movimientos estacionales. Ambas poblaciones presentaron un sesgo general hacia los machos (Fraser = 61% machos, Bolinas = 65% machos). En general, no existe evidencia que apoye la existencia de un sesgo hacia los machos en C. a. pacifica, de manera que nuestros datos son consistentes con alguna forma de variacin latitudinal de tipo clinal en la proporcin de sexos en estas aves. Sin embargo, para contestar esta pregunta son necesarios datos adicionales de la costa de Oregon, el sur de California y Mxico. Tambin pusimos a prueba la hiptesis de que el tamao corporal promedio de cada sexo es mayor en el sitio de mayor latitud (delta del Ro Fraser), pero esto no apareci ser cierto. 
40072366|Little is known about the role that hormones play in controlling the life cycles and behaviors of resident, tropical-forest passerines. In this study, we document levels of the sex hormones dihydroepiandosterone (DHEA), estradiol, luteinizing hormone (LH), progesterone, and testosterone in male and female Song Wrens (
10.2307/1367659|Annual changes in plasma levels of thyroxine (T
10.1525/cond.2013.120192|The chronology of birds' breeding has traditionally been thought to depend strongly on latitude, although it can be rather uneven among populations in close proximity. I estimated the extent of the breeding season in a population of the Red-necked Nightjar (
4123193| Analysis of Christmas Bird Count (CBC) data is complicated by the need to account for variation in effort on counts and to provide summaries over large geographic regions. We describe a hierarchical model for analysis of population change using CBC data that addresses these needs. The effect of effort is modeled parametrically, with parameter values varying among strata as identically distributed random effects. Year and site effects are modeled hierarchically, accommodating large regional variation in number of samples and precision of estimates. The resulting model is complex, but a Bayesian analysis can be conducted using Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques. We analyze CBC data for American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes), a species of considerable management interest that has historically been monitored using winter surveys. Over the interval 1966-2003, Black Duck populations showed distinct regional patterns of population change. The patterns shown by CBC data are similar to those shown by the Midwinter Waterfowl Inventory for the United States. /// El anlisis de los datos de los conteos navideos de aves es complicado por la necesidad de tener en cuenta la variacin en el esfuerzo en los conteos y de proveer resmenes a travs de regiones geogrficas amplias. En este estudio describimos un modelo jerrquico para analizar los cambios en las poblaciones usando datos de conteos navideos que suple esas necesidades. El efecto del esfuerzo es modelado paramtricamente, haciendo variar los valores de los parmetros entre estratos como efectos aleatorios distribuidos idnticamente. Los efectos del ao y del sitio son modelados jerrquicamente, teniendo en cuenta la amplia variacin regional en el nmero de muestras y la precisin de los estimados. El modelo resultante es complejo, pero es posible realizar un anlisis Bayesiano empleando tcnicas de cadenas de Markov Monte Carlo. Analizamos datos de conteos navideos para Anas rubripes, una especie de considerable inters desde el punto de vista de manejo que ha sido monitoreada histricamente por medio de censos durante el invierno. En el intervalo entre 1966 y 2003, las poblaciones de A. rubripes mostraron patrones marcados de cambio a nivel regional. Los patrones mostrados por los datos de los conteos navideos son similares a los que muestran los inventarios de aves acuticas de mitad del invierno realizados en los Estados Unidos. 
40072450|Many aspects of migration have been studied extensively, but little is known of how environmental conditions influence the behaviors displayed by migrants. Field studies suggest that such environmental factors as atmospheric conditions, nocturnal illumination, and food availability can affect migratory activity. We used 24 hr locomotor activity records and specific behaviors displayed by captive migrants to determine how nocturnal illumination and food restriction altered the migratory behavior of Gambel's White-crowned Sparrows (
10.2307/1370230|Fifteen yearling, male American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) were fed either intact day-old chicks (Gallus domesticus) (high-fat diet) or chicks with the yolk removed plus a piece of lean turkey meat approximately equivalent in volume to the yolk (low-fat diet). This was done for 33-37 days to determine the influence of dietary fat on the gastrointestinal gross anatomy and contractile activity of the kestrels. Fat content of the diet appeared to have little effect on either anatomy or contractions. Observations of contractile activity, via Image Intensification Radiology, revealed a unique reflux of duodenal contents associated with every duodenal flux in every gastroduodenal contraction cycle (approximately 3-4 min
40072462|The presence of blue-green egg pigmentation has puzzled naturalists for more than 100 years. One hypothesis on the function of this pigmentation proposes that blue-green egg chroma signals female quality and that males respond to this signal by increased provisioning to presumably higher-quality clutches. The hypothesized mechanism is that blue-green egg color signals female antioxidant capacity, because the eggshell pigment responsible for blue-green coloration, biliverdin, has antioxidant properties in the mother. Our study is the first to examine this mechanism, which is critical to this hypothesis. We found that female Gray Catbirds with higher total antioxidant capacity laid eggs with higher blue-green chroma. In addition, we found that males provided more care to nestlings from clutches with higher average blue-green egg chroma. This shows an intriguing potential link between female antioxidant capacity and blue-green egg chroma. Interpreting the variation in females' antioxidant capacity will require a better understanding of the relative importance of dietary intake of antioxidants, oxidative stress, and the cost of depositing biliverdin into eggs.
10.2307/1370066| The Kelp Gull (Larus dominicanus) is an abundant and widely distributed species in coastal Patagonia, and has increased in number at many locations during the last decade. We present comparative information on diet composition between locations and diet variation throughout the breeding cycle at three Provincial Wildlife Reserves (Punta Pirmide, Punta Len, and Punta Tombo), Chubut, Patagonia. We analyzed diet using regurgitated pellets. A total of 41 types of prey were identified at the three colonies. Kelp Gulls fed throughout the season mostly on intertidal invertebrates, although fish also was an important diet component, mainly during the chick stage. The diet also included garbage, insects, and other seabird offspring. Of all types of prey, 70.7% were common to the three locations, although the pattern of consumption of the main food categories differed among locations. The average consumption of garbage differed significantly among locations, with larger amounts of garbage in the diet the closer the colony to the nearest landfill. Kelp Gulls showed a marked seasonal variation in the consumption of the main food types. At Punta Tombo and Punta Len, there was a change from a mostly marine invertebrate diet during the pre-laying and incubation stages to a mainly fish diet during the chick stage. The consumption of the main food categories was significantly different between seasons at Punta Pirmide but was similar at the other two colonies. 
10.2307/1370194|We examined diurnal time-activity budgets of American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana), Long-billed Dowitchers (Limnodromus scolopaceus), Stilt Sandpipers (Calidris himantopus), Semipalmated Sandpipers (C. pusilla), and Least Sandpipers (C. minutilla) in the Prairie Pothole Region of northwestern North Dakota during spring and fall 1994 and 1995 to evaluate the importance of prairie pothole wetlands to a variety of shorebird guilds. Long-billed Dowitchers, and Stilt, Semipalmated, and Least Sandpipers spent most of their time feeding in spring and fall. American Avocets also used prairie potholes for feeding, but other activities like locomotion, body maintenance, and sleep consumed large proportions of time. Time spent in various behaviors was similar among three diurnal (early, midday, and late) time periods during spring and fall. Avocets and dowitchers slept more during midday than early or late periods. Flock size was smaller during spring than fall in both years for American Avocets, Long-billed Dowitchers, Semipalmated Sandpipers, and Least Sandpipers and in 1994 for Stilt Sandpipers. More than half of all aggressive encounters by American Avocets, Stilt Sandpipers, Semipalmated Sandpipers, and Least Sandpipers were intraspecific during feeding. Smaller flock sizes in spring may be related to avoidance of costly aggression in spring and/or the numbers of birds migrating through the region. The Prairie Pothole Region serves as a stopover for most shorebirds to acquire energy reserves during migration, and conservation efforts should focus on preserving and enhancing prairie potholes for foraging shorebirds.
10.2307/1370496|The Black-faced Sheathbill (Chionis minor) is a sedentary and polytypic species. Four allopatric subspecies are known, each breeding on one archipelago in the Southern Indian Ocean. To evaluate the degree of isolation of these four subspecies, morphometrics and vocalizations of adult birds of Iles Kerguelen and Crozet were compared with those of the other localities (Prince Edward and Heard Islands). Two groups were distinguished (Prince Edward-Crozet and Kerguelen-Heard) on geographic and morphological criteria. In the eastern group (Kerguelen-Heard), corresponding to higher latitudes, sheathbills were larger and heavier, following Bergmann's Rule. The sheathbills from Iles Kerguelen also had a lower-pitched voice than those from Iles Crozet, consistent with their larger body size. Moreover, the birds from the southernmost locality (Heard Island) had a shorter culmen, consistent with Allen's Rule, but longer tarsi and deeper sheaths. Within the western group (Prince Edward-Crozet), and at Iles Kerguelen, there also was variability on a microgeographical scale. Differences between subspecies of Black-faced Sheathbill therefore could be due not only to environmental correlates of latitude, but also to possible genetic drift. The four subspecies are allopatric and do not differ in their breeding schedule or in their general behavior and diet, suggesting that differentiation may be recent and mainly due to geographical isolation.
10.2307/1368941|We studied the foraging behavior of Sanderlings (Calidris alba) in the winter of 1986, 1988 and 1990 in Florida to determine whether the presence of people influenced foraging behavior, and whether foraging behavior varied as a function of time of day. We used a focal animal sampling approach. For all three years, the models explaining the greatest variation in seconds per minute devoted to feeding included the number of people within 100 m of foraging Sanderlings. Although the number of people within 10 m of foraging Sanderlings during the day did not increase from 1986 to 1990, the number of people within 100 m rose dramatically, and foraging time per minute decreased. Sanderlings continued to feed through dusk into night and the time devoted to foraging and to aggression was greater at night, while the time devoted to avoiding people was less at night than during daylight or dusk.
4096549| We studied the patterns of sexual dichromatism and seasonal variation in plumage color in the Diademed Tanager (Stephanophorus diadematus), a species previously considered devoid of variation in adult plumage. The general coloration of this species is dark blue-violet, with a white-blue and red crown. Plumage reflectance of seven body regions from 33 study skins belonging to adults of both sexes was measured. Reflectance values were used in a principal components analysis (PCA) and hue, short-wave chroma, and UV chroma were also measured directly on the spectra. Both PCA factor scores and these latter variables were subjected to two-way ANCOVAs with sex and season as main factors and the year of capture as a covariate. We found that crowns of males were significantly brighter than those of females. In addition, the nape, chest, and belly showed significant differences in spectral shape, with relatively greater short-wave reflectance and less long-wave reflectance in males than in females. Although sexes were alike in hue, they differed in chroma in almost all body regions. Brightness also differed between seasons, and contrary to our expectation nonbreeding birds were brighter than breeding ones. This result may be a consequence of the particular molt program of tanagers that includes only a complete post-reproductive molt. Despite finding seasonal differences in spectral shape in various body regions, no significant changes in hue, short-wave chroma, or UV chroma were evident. To our knowledge, this is the first report of variation in adult plumage color for the Diademed Tanager, and we suggest that dichromatism in tanagers may be even more pervasive than is currently recognized. /// Estudiamos los patrones de dicromatismo sexual y variacin estacional en la coloracin del plumaje de Stephanophorus diadematus, una especie previamente considerada carente de variacin en la coloracin del plumaje adulto. La coloracin general de esta especie es azul violceo oscuro, con una corona blanca azulada y roja. Se midi la reflectancia de siete regiones corporales en 33 pieles de estudio pertenecientes a adultos de ambos sexos. Los valores de reflectancia se utilizaron en un anlisis de componentes principales, y adems se midieron el tono (hue), la intensidad del color de onda corta y la intensidad del color de UV directamente sobre los espectros. Tanto los factores del anlisis de componentes principales como las variables mencionadas fueron sujetos a ANCOVAs de dos factores, considerando el sexo y la estacin como factores principales, y el ao de captura como covariable. Estos anlisis mostraron que la corona de los machos es significativamente ms brillante que la de las hembras. Adems, la nuca, el pecho y el vientre mostraron diferencias significativas en la forma espectral, presentando los machos mayor reflectancia en la zona de onda corta y menor en la zona de onda larga que las hembras. Si bien el tono no difiri entre sexos, la intensidad del color difiri en la mayora de las regiones corporales entre machos y hembras. El brillo tambien difiri entre temporadas y, contrariamente a nuestra expectativa, los individuos capturados en la temporada no reproductiva fueron ms brillantes que aquellos capturados en la temporada reproductiva. Este resultado podra deberse al programa de muda particular presente en Thraupidae, que incluye una nica muda post-reproductiva completa. Si bien encontramos diferencias entre estaciones en la forma espectral en varias regiones corporales, no se detectaron diferencias en el tono, la intensidad del color de onda corta ni la intensidad del color de UV. Este es, de acuerdo a nuestro conocimiento, el primer estudio que muestra variacin en la coloracin del plumaje adulto de S. diadematus. Sugerimos que el dicromatismo en Thraupidae podra ser ms comn de lo que actualmente se piensa. 
4151087| Endogenous stores of energy allow birds to survive periods of severe weather and food shortage during winter. We documented changes in lipid, protein, moisture, and ash in body tissues of adult female Pacific Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) and modeled the energetic costs of wintering. Birds were collected at the extremes of their winter range, in Alaska and Baja California, Mexico. Body lipids decreased over winter for birds in Alaska but increased for those in Baja California. Conversely, body protein increased over winter for Brant in Alaska and remained stable for birds in Baja California. Lipid stores likely fuel migration for Brant wintering in Baja California and ensure winter survival for those in Alaska. Increases in body protein may support earlier reproduction for Brant in Alaska. Predicted energy demands were similar between sites during late winter but avenues of expenditure were different. Birds in Baja California spent more energy on lipid synthesis while those in Alaska incurred higher thermoregulatory costs. Estimated daily intake rates of eelgrass were similar between sites in early winter; however, feeding time was more constrained in Alaska because of high tides and short photoperiods. Despite differences in energetic costs and foraging time, Brant wintering at both sites appeared to be in good condition. We suggest that wintering in Alaska may be more advantageous than long-distance migration if winter survival is similar between sites and constraints on foraging time do not impair body condition. /// Las reservas endgenas de energa permiten que las aves sobrevivan condiciones climticas adversas y de escasez de alimento durante el invierno. Documentamos los cambios en las proporciones de grasa, protena, agua, y ceniza en el tejido corporal de hembras adultas de Branta bernicla nigricans. Tambin modelamos los costos energticos de la invernada. Las aves fueron muestreadas en los extremos de su rango de invernada: Alaska y Baja California en Mxico. Las grasas corporales disminuyeron durante el invierno en las aves de Alaska pero aumentaron en las aves de Baja California. De manera contraria, las protenas corporales aumentaron durante el invierno en las aves de Alaska y permanecieron estables en las aves de Baja California. Las reservas de grasa probablemente aportan energa para la migracin de las aves que invernan en Baja California y aseguran la supervivencia de las aves en Alaska. Los aumentos de las protenas corporales podran permitir la reproduccin adelantada de B. b. nigricans en Alaska. Los requisitos energticos predichos fueron similares entre los dos sitios a fines del invierno pero las formas de gasto fueron diferentes. Las aves en Baja California gastaron ms energa en sintetizar grasas mientras que las aves en Alaska tuvieron mayores gastos en termorregulacin. Las tasas de ingestin diaria fueron similares entre los dos sitios a principios del invierno, pero la duracin del periodo de forrajeo fue ms restringida en Alaska debido a las mareas altas y a la reduccin de las horas de luz durante el da. A pesar de las diferencias en costos energticos y en tiempo de forrajeo, las aves que se encontraban invernando en ambos sitios parecieron estar en buenas condiciones. Sugerimos que invernar en Alaska podra ser ms ventajoso que la migracin de larga distancia si la supervivencia durante el invierno es parecida entre sitios y si las restricciones en el tiempo de forrajeo no afectan la condicin corporal. 
10.2307/1366812|Blood samples from 32 nestling Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) ranging in age from 1 to 41 days were collected at a nesting site near Vancouver, B.C. The hematocrit was positively correlated, the plasma sodium and chloride concentrations negatively correlated, and the plasma potassium and osmotic concentrations uncorrelated with age. Salt gland secretion was elicited in 23 young gulls by intravenous injection of 1 M NaCl. The concentration and the volume of secretion increased with age. Sodium secretion was positively correlated with the size of the salt gland. The secretion of potassium and minimum maintained concentrations of sodium were positively correlated with age. In the first hour of secretion, hatchlings eliminated 39% of the injected fluid containing 24% of the injected sodium; in contrast, the oldest nestlings removed 77% of the fluid and 55% of the sodium. Cloacal fluid voided by older salt-loaded birds was less concentrated than that of younger ones. Organ weights were determined in 20 nestlings. Kidney weight was 2-3% of the body weight regardless of age, but the relative weights of the Harderian, salt, and adrenal glands decreased with age.
1370372| We examined the effect of egg size on post-hatching development in the Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia), an Arctic seabird that lays a one-egg clutch, at a colony where food availability during chick-rearing was low (Digges Island, Nunavut, Canada). We compared our results to those of a previous study conducted at a colony where food availability was higher (Coats Island, Nunavut). To control for underlying phenotypic correlations between egg size and parental quality, we switched eggs at random among pairs. Egg size positively affected the rate of early wing-feather growth, but contrary to prediction, the advantage enjoyed by chicks from large eggs over those from small eggs at Digges Island (1.6 days' feather growth on average) was no greater than at Coats Island (2.0 days). Egg size had no effect on the rate at which chicks gained mass at Digges Island, but young from large eggs tended to remain heavier than those from small eggs. At Coats Island, this occurred only in a year in which chicks grew relatively slowly, offering some support for the hypothesis that a large egg confers greater advantage when feeding conditions are unfavorable. Adults at Digges Island invested heavily in provisioning their chicks, but there was no evidence of a trade-off between egg size and provisioning. As costs associated with large eggs have not been detected in Thick-billed Murres, the existence of considerable variation in egg size, beyond that associated with female age or experience, remains unexplained. /// Estudiamos el efecto del tamao de los huevos en el desarrollo posterior a la eclosin en Uria lomvia, un ave marina rtica que presenta una nidada de un solo huevo. Realizamos el estudio en una colonia donde la disponibilidad de alimento durante la cra de polluelos fue baja (Isla Digges, Nunavut, Canada). Comparamos nuestros resultados con los obtenidos en un estudio previo en una colonia en que la disponibilidad de alimento era mayor (Isla Coats, Nunavut). Para controlar la subyacente correlacin fenotpica entre el tamao de los huevos y calidad parental, los huevos fueron cambiados al azar entre parejas. El tamao del huevo afect positivamente la tasa de crecimiento temprano de plumas del ala. Contrariamente a las predicciones, en la Isla Digges la ventaja de los polluelos provenientes de huevos ms grandes sobre aquellos provenientes de huevos ms pequeos (media de 1.6 das para crecimiento de plumas) no fue mayor que en la Isla Coats (2.0 das). El tamao del huevo no tuvo efecto sobre la tasa a la cual los polluelos ganaron peso en la Isla Digges, sin embargo los polluelos provenientes de huevos grandes presentaron una tendencia a permanecer con mayor peso que aquellos provenientes de huevos ms pequeos. En la Isla Coats esto ocurri slo durante un ao en el cual los polluelos crecieron relativamente lento, apoyando la hiptesis que huevos grandes confieren una mayor ventaja cuando las condiciones de alimentacin son desfavorables. Los adultos en la Isla Digges invirtieron fuertemente en el aprovisionamiento de sus polluelos, pero no hubo evidencia de un compromiso entre el tamao de los huevos y el aprovisionamiento. Debido a que el costo asociado con huevos de mayor tamao no ha sido detectado en U. lomvia, la existencia de una gran variabilidad en el tamao de los huevos, mas all de la asociada a la edad o experiencia de la hembra, permanece inexplicada. 
10.2307/1368316|From May to August 1984 and April 1985 to April 1986, we collected 574 Common Raven (Corvus corax) pellets from five communal roosts in southwestern Idaho. Results of pellet analyses differed from those of previous studies of the Common Raven diet. Cereal grains were the principal pellet constituent, followed by small mammals, grass-hoppers, cattle carrion, and birds. Pellet composition differed significantly within years, between years, and among roosts. Insects were most numerous in summer and fall pellets, and cattle and bird remains were most abundant in spring pellets. Between years, amounts of insect and cattle remains differed significantly. Amounts of cattle remains also differed significantly among roosts. Our data suggest that the diet of Common Ravens in southwestern Idaho is closely associated with agricultural activities. We recommend intensive, year-round sampling from both raven nest sites and roosts to adequately describe the raven diet in a given area.
10.2307/1367748|Aspects of the breeding ecology of the Bronzed Cowbird (Molothrus aeneus) were studied from early April to mid-July or August 1980 to 1982 at the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge in southern Texas. Female Bronzed Cowbirds, similar to Brown-headed (M. ater) and Shiny (M. bonariensis) cowbirds, are generalists in their egg laying. Of five common host species on the refuge, all were equally and usually repeatedly parasitized. Of these, only the Green Jay (Cyanocorax yncas) and Long-billed Thrasher (Toxostoma longirostre) are larger than the cowbirds in body size and are better host choices based on their relative success as fosterers. Experimental parasitism of Couch's Kingbirds (Tyrannus melancholicus), Curve-billed Thrashers (Toxostoma curvirostre), and Great-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus mexicanus) showed that they eject cowbird eggs from the nest. Female Bronzed Cowbirds, like Shiny Cowbirds, pierce both host eggs and previously laid cowbird eggs. Approximately twice as many host eggs were pierced compared to cowbird eggs. In some parasitized nests, more than one cowbird laid eggs and final host clutch size was greatly reduced. The vocal reaction of host species to cowbird intrusion probably provided clues on nest location to nest-searching female cowbirds who were drawn to such stimuli. Like the other four parasitic cowbird species, Bronzed Cowbird nestlings possess no apparent special adaptation for brood parasitism. Their vocal nature, however, appears to give them a competitive edge against less vocal host nestmates.
10.2307/1367944|Using univariate and multivariate techniques, we evaluated sexual dimorphism in four external and 51 skeletal measures taken from 66 California Gulls (Larus californicus). Based on analyses of variance, all characters showed statistically significant sexual dimorphism. Skeletal measures of head and pectoral regions were closely correlated but--with elimination of geographic, temporal, and ontogenetic influences--we noted considerable independent variation among characters. Differences between sexes were greatest in the head region (average of 8.03%), with mandible depth being the most dimorphic head character. Differences in the wing region were somewhat less (averaging 6.98%), although still greater than the overall size difference between sexes (i.e., 6.10%; based on the cube root of body weight). Principal components analysis of skeletal characters standardized on the basis of pooled, within-sex standard deviations provided complete separation of males and females. Four skeletal measures (i.e., skull width, mandible length, keel depth, and minimum synsacral width), when used in combination in a stepwise discriminant function, correctly identified to sex all specimens that we used and, it is expected, will do so for most other specimens of this species. Classification functions were developed from the total suite of characters to assign unknown specimens to one or the other sex. Most males and females could also be separated by using combinations of characteristics taken from only one of the five body regions studied (i.e., head, pectoral, wing, pelvic, and leg regions), indicating the widespread nature of sexual dimorphism in California Gulls.
4096489| Survival of young in waterfowl is poorly understood, particularly in regions outside of the traditional prairie breeding areas. Further, traditional methods of survival estimation lack the ability to statistically characterize between the extremes of random and catastrophic mortality events. We estimated Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) duckling survival rates for 121 broods at nine study sites across the Great Lakes region from 2001-2003, using a novel statistical method that allows for the partitioning of random and correlated mortality processes. Results indicated that survival increased rapidly with age, did not change with hatching dates, did not differ among years, but varied across site-by-year replicates. Rates of random mortality were found to vary among site-years, while rates of correlated mortality varied little across site-years. In contrast to most studies of Mallard duckling survival, seasonal increases in duckling survival were not detected. We speculate that the observed patterns in survival rates with hatching date are related to productivity in Great Lakes brood-rearing wetlands and temperate regional climate. /// La supervivencia de juveniles en las aves acuticas es pobremente entendida, particularmente en las regiones que se encuentran fuera de las areas de praderas de reproduccion. Adems, los mtodos tradicionales de estimacin de supervivencia carecen de la habilidad de caracterizar estadfsticamente entre los extremeos de los eventos de mortalidad causados por azar o por catstrofes. Estimamos las tasas de supervivencia de polluelos de Anas platyrhynchos de 121 nidadas en nueve sitios de estudio en la regin de los Grandes Lagos entre 2001 y 2003, utilizando un nuevo mtodo estadstico que permite discriminar procesos de mortalidad azarosos de procesos correlacionados. Los resultados indican que la supervivencia aument rpidamente con la edad, no vari con la fecha de eclosin, ni entre aos, pero si vari entre las rplicas de los sitios en diferentes aos. Las tasas de mortalidad azarosa variaron entre los sitios en diferentes aos, mientras que las tasas de mortalidad correlacionada variaron muy poco a travs de los sitios en los diferentes aos. De manera contrastante con la mayora de los estudios sobre la supervivencia de polluelos de A. platyrhynchos, no detectamos aumentos estacionales en la supervivencia de los polluelos. Especulamos que los patrones observados de las tasas de supervivencia con la fecha de eclosin se relacionan con la productividad de los humedales utilizados durante la cra en la regin de los Grandes Lagos y con el clima templado regional. 
10.2307/1368427|Carcass composition of Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) was measured to assess the size and variation of energy reserves during winter in North Park, Colorado. Fat content ranged from 0.8 to 8.4%. Adults had higher (P = 0.001) fat content than yearlings (4.7 vs. 2.9%); birds collected in 1982 had more (P < 0.05) fat than birds collected in 1981. Estimated fat content was higher (P < 0.05) when diethyl ether, rather than petroleum ether, was used as a solvent (4.0 vs. 3.6%). Fat comprised 85 to 93% of estimated energy reserves which equaled 9.6, 5.1, 7.0, and 5.3 times standard metabolic rate for adult and yearling males and adult and yearling females, respectively. All age and sex classes gained or maintained weight and fat over winter. Relatively small energy reserves of Sage Grouse are probably most important during breeding and nesting activities.
10.2307/1367827| Metabolic rates and body temperatures of four captive Anhingas (Anhinga anhinga) were measured over a range of ambient temperatures. In addition, Anhingas were observed in the field in an attempt to correlate the frequency of behaviors, such as wing-spreading, with environmental conditions, such as the intensity of solar radiation and ambient temperature. Anhingas have low basal metabolic rates and high thermal conductances for their mass. The frequency of spread-winged behavior increases at higher solar intensities and is inversely correlated with ambient temperature. Anhingas assuming spread-winged postures orient with their backs to the sun, maximizing the surface area exposed to insolation and maintaining an angle of incidence of approximately 90. In contrast, birds engaged in gular flutter face into the sun, thereby minimizing the surface area exposed to insolation and increasing the angle of incidence. Anhingas spread their wings to dry the plumage and to absorb solar energy during cool weather. They thereby supplement their low metabolic rates, compensate for their high thermal conductances, and replace heat lost via evaporation and convection due to wetting of the plumage. 
4122529| We modeled the relationship between egg flotation and age of a developing embryo for 24 species of shorebirds. For 21 species, we used regression analyses to estimate hatching date by modeling egg angle and float height, measured as continuous variables, against embryo age. For eggs early in incubation, we used linear regression analyses to predict hatching date from logit-transformed egg angles only. For late incubation, we used multiple regression analyses to predict hatching date from both egg angles and float heights. In 30 of 36 cases, these equations estimated hatching date to within four days of the true hatching date for each species. After controlling for incubation duration and egg size, flotation patterns did not differ between shorebirds grouped by mass (100 g or <100g) or taxonomy (Scolopacidae versus Charadriidae). Flotation progressed more rapidly in species in which both adults incubate the clutch versus species in which only one adult incubates the clutch, although this did not affect prediction accuracy. We also pooled all continuous data and created a generalized regression equation that can be applied to all shorebird species. For the remaining three species, we estimated hatching date using five float categories. Estimates of hatching date using categorical data were, overall, less accurate than those generated using continuous data (by 3%-5% of a given incubation period). Our equations were less accurate than results reported in similar studies; data collected by multiple observers and at multiple sites, as well as low sample sizes for some species, likely increased measurement error. To minimize flotation method prediction error, we recommend sampling in early incubation, collecting both egg angle and float height data in late incubation, and developing site- and species-specific regression models where possible. /// Modelamos la relacin entre la flotacin del huevo y la edad de un embrin en desarrollo para 24 especies de aves playeras. Para 21 especies, usamos anlisis de regresin para estimar la fecha de eclosin modelando el ngulo del huevo y la altura de flotacin, medidos como variables continuas, contra la edad del embrin. Para huevos al inicio del periodo de incubacin, usamos anlisis de regresin lineal para predecir la fecha de eclosin slo a partir de la transformacin logit de los ngulos de los huevos. Para la parte final del perodo de incubacin, usamos anlisis de regresin mltiple para predecir la fecha de eclosin a partir de los ngulos de los huevos y de la altura de flotacin. En 30 de los 36 casos, estas ecuaciones estimaron la fecha de eclosin con una exactitud de cuatro das alrededor de la verdadera fecha de eclosin para cada una de las especies consideradas. Luego de ajustar los modelos considerando la duracin de la incubacin y el tamao del huevo, los patrones de flotacin no difirieron entre las aves playeras agrupadas por peso (100 g  <100 g) o taxonoma (Scolopacidae versus Charadriidae). La flotatin avanz ms rpidamente en las especies en las cuales ambos adultos incuban la nidada, que en las que slo un adulto incub la nidada, aunque esto no afect la exactitud de la prediccin. Tambin combinamos todos los datos continuos y creamos una ecuacin de regresin generalizada que puede ser aplicada a todas las especies de aves playeras. Para las tres especies restantes, estimamos la fecha de eclosin usando cinco categoras de flotacin. En trminos generales, las estimaciones de la fecha de eclosin usando datos categricos fueron menos exactas que aquellas generadas usando datos continuos (de 3% a 5% para un perodo de incubacin dado). Nuestras ecuaciones fueron menos exactas que los resultados presentados por otros estudios. Los datos recolectados por mltiples observadores y en mltiples sitios, y el tamao de muestra reducido para algunas especies, probablemente incrementaron el error de medicin. Para minimizar el error de prediccin del mtodo de flotacin, recomendamos muestrear en el perodo temprano de incubacin, recolectar datos del ngulo del huevo y de la altura de flotacin al final de la incubacin y desarrollar modelos de regresin especficos para los sitios y las especies cuando sea posible. 
10.2307/1369391|I examined the influence of environmental factors (exposed intertidal habitat, river volume and invertebrate abundance) on nonbreeding shorebird communities in the Mad River, California, an estuary in which intertidal habitats are affected by seasonal variation in river discharge. The shorebird community exhibited the following temporal (July-April) variation: (1) species composition exhibited a 50% turnover between October and November; (2) species richness peaked in summer, declined in winter and increased in spring; (3) shorebird abundance peaked in summer, when most birds foraged in cobble habitats; and (4) during winter a large percentage of birds roosted, and a small proportion fed in low numbers in aquatic habitats. Exposed intertidal habitat explained significant variation in both community patterns and the abundance of five species; these species were characterized by use of exposed intertidal habitats. Compared with other studies, the relatively weak associations between environmental variables and variation in the shorebird assemblage suggests that shorebirds occupying seasonally dynamic estuaries may exhibit space use and activity patterns different from those reported for birds occupying coastal estuaries where habitat availability and food resources are more predictable.
10.2307/1367437|In this paper we describe and illustrate the pair-formation displays of the Western Grebe (Aechmophorus occidentalis), examining their structural variation, social contexts, and probable evolutionary origins and functions. Most displays are performed mutually by two or more individuals and occur in elaborate and predictable sequences or "ceremonies." One of these, the "Rushing Ceremony" is performed by either two males, a male and a female, or several males and a female. The "Weed Ceremony," on the other hand, occurs later in the pairing sequence and always involves a male and a female. Finally, the "Greeting Ceremony," used by pairs coming together after being separated, appears to be an abbreviation of the above two ceremonies with the energetic, core displays left out. We examine the temporal and spatial coordination between individuals involved in each of these ceremonies. Most displays and ceremonies of Western Grebes differ greatly from those described for other grebe species, which supports morphological evidence for retaining the Western Grebe in a separate genus. The similarity of the Weed Ceremony to that of some species of Podiceps supports morphological evidence for considering the Western Grebe more closely related to that genus than to any other.
10.2307/1368426|The biological species concept (BSC) has been generally accepted by ornithologists in theory and practice for half a century. The concept has been considered useful both from evolutionary and taxonomic viewpoints. Criticisms of the BSC, largely by nonornithologists, have not led to substantial modification of the concept in ornithology. We discuss the concepts of grouping individuals into taxa and ranking these taxa as biological species, defined as reproductively isolated groups. The dimensionality of species is discussed, and we suggest that the problems in extending the BSC from nondimensional (sympatric) to multidimensional (polytypic species) situations are too serious to ignore. Reproductive isolation has no consistent genotypic or phenotypic correlates that can serve as predictors of reproductive compatibility of allopatric groups. Thus, many biological species are inappropriate groups for comparative biology or analyses of evolutionary history, as they are frequently conglomerates of several independent, not necessarily monophyletic groups. We discuss why hybrid zones do not necessarily contribute to clarification of species limits. The theoretical and practical limitations of the BSC lead us to advocate a phylogenetic species concept (PSC) (sensu Cracraft 1983), in which taxa are monophyletic, diagnosable clusters of individuals and species are the smallest diagnosable clusters. Diagnostic characters are considered to flag independent evolutionary histories and are used to delineate species boundaries. Phylogenetic species are therefore basal evolutionary units that should be the units used in phylogeny reconstruction, speciation analysis, and biogeography. We discuss the potential use of subspecies names, and recommend that they not be used. Problems with the PSC are discussed, such as its apparent neglect of important biological information, its use of seemingly trivial characters to delimit species, its apparent typological nature, and resulting unwieldy classifications. Implementation of the PSC is discussed with reference to practical problems in determining the statistical limits of phylogenetic species.
10.2307/1369285|We examined habitat use patterns at two spatial scales among six radio-tagged California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) in the Sierra Nevada. Foraging owls selected macrohabitats composed of larger trees (>52 cm dbh) with canopy closures of 40% and greater. Owls used forests composed of medium trees (28-52 cm dbh) and habitats with less than 40% canopy closure, which is less frequently than expected. Fewer than 2% of telemetry locations occurred in clearcut/shrub/plantation habitat which represented 30% of available habitat. Foraging owls used microhabitats that were characterized by multiple vegetative strata, large tree size classes, high tree basal areas and woody debris. The median 100% minimum convex polygon home-range was 1,439 ha (n = 5, June to December, 1987). Telemetry locations were statistically independent when separated by five days. Estimates of minimum convex polygon and modified minimum convex polygon size based on statistically independent telemetry data were significantly smaller than estimates based on continuous and single-observation monitoring.
10.2307/1367036| Core body temperatures of Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus) were monitored by telemetry at intervals throughout the winter and summer. The mean body temperature of the hawks over a 24-h period was 41.1C, compared to 39.5C for the owls. Body temperature of both species fluctuated daily in association with periods of activity and rest. In the hawks, however, the difference between active and inactive body temperature increased in cold weather and in response to food deprivation because the birds maintained a lower nocturnal (inactive) body temperature. Hawks that were fasted in the winter kept their body temperatures 3.2C lower at night than during the day, which may result in a substantial savings of energy for this species at night. Body temperatures of Great Horned Owls were not influenced by cold, but were lower during inactive periods in response to food deprivation. Thus, owls may also reduce metabolic expenses during periods of food shortage by physiological adjustments. 
10.2307/1367307|The arrangement of nesting territories of Larus occidentalis livens on beaches is commonly linear, and most territories are adjacent to water. This arrangement differs from clustered colonies typical of most gulls. Two hypotheses are advanced to explain this unusual nest arrangement: it may provide access to the intertidal zone for foraging or access to water for thermoregulation. Foraging activity in the intertidal zone is of only modest or secondary importance. In contrast, thermal stress is great and access to water for thermoregulation appears to be essential. Due to the organization of the nesting colony, adults can leave their nests and go to the water during long incubation and brooding bouts and still return quickly to prevent nest predation by ravens or other gulls. The linear arrangement of nests is less pronounced on broad beaches or peninsulas, although close proximity to the water persists. The absence of gulls as breeding species on most tropical islands, which may be related to heat stress and associated problems of predation or overexposure of eggs to the sun, rather than to shortage of food, is discussed. Adaptations by which some species may avoid the heat stress/predation dilemma in any thermally stressful environment are listed.
10.2307/1366781|Bird communities in forests of Alnus rubra in Washington were studied by analyzing the number and composition of bird species, and their foraging behaviors, along a successional gradient. A model for territorial birds acting as central-place foragers was developed, and it was found that birds respond differently to heterogeneous versus homogeneous changes in vegetation structure. Birds responding to homogeneous vertical increases in vegetation during succession had territories which became more spherical. These changes were accompanied by a decreased use of total leaf area. Energy gain from reduced travel by central-place foragers may account for smaller territories. These changes were not found for birds responding to heterogeneous vegetation change. Additions and subtractions of birds with different methods of foraging are analyzed with respect to specific changes in vegetation structure during succession. It is concluded that such changes alone can account for the addition of bird species and individuals.
4151049| Anthropogenic resource subsidies have contributed to the dramatic increase in the abundance of Common Ravens (Corvus corax) in the western Mojave Desert, California, during the past 30 years. To better understand the effects of these subsidies on raven demography, we examined whether survival to juvenile departure from the natal territory could be predicted by a set of environmental and morphological variables, such as nest proximity to anthropogenic resources and juvenile condition. We captured 240 juvenile ravens over 2 years and marked them prior to fledging. Nest proximity to anthropogenic resources and earlier fledging dates significantly predicted raven juvenile survival to departure from the natal territory. The best-fitting mark-recapture models predicted postdeparture survival as a function of time since fledging, nest proximity to anthropogenic resources, and year hatched. The positive effect of nest proximity to anthropogenic resources influenced postdeparture survival for at least 9 months after fledging, as revealed by the mark-recapture analysis. Annual survival was 47% for first-year, 81% for second-year, and 83% for third-year birds. Our results support the hypothesis that anthropogenic resources contribute to increasing raven numbers via increased juvenile survival to departure as well as increased postdeparture survival. We expect raven numbers to grow in concert with the growing human presence in the Mojave Desert unless raven access to anthropogenic resources is diminished. /// Los subsidios de recursos antropognicos han contribuido al aumento dramtico de la abundancia del cuervo Corvus cor ax en el occidente del desierto de Mojave durante los ltimos 30 aos. Para entender los efectos de estos subsidios en la demografa del cuervo, examinamos si la sobrevivencia hasta la salida de los juveniles del territorio natal podra ser predicha por un conjunto de variables morfolgicas y ambientales, tales como su cercana a los recursos antropognicos y la condicin de los juveniles. En dos aos capturamos 240 cuervos juveniles y los marcamos antes que desarollaran plumas de vuelo. La cercana del nido al punto de subsidio ms cercano y las fechas tempranas de emplumamiento predijeron significativamente la sobrevivencia de los juveniles hasta su salida del teritorio natal. Los modelos de marcaje y recaptura ms adecuados predijeron la sobrevivencia posterior a la salida del territorio como una funcin del tiempo desde el momento de emplumamiento, la cercana al punto ms cercano de subsidio y el ao de nacimiento. Segn el anlisis de marcaje y recaptura, el efecto positivo de la cercana a subsidios antropognicos influye en la sobrevivencia despus de la salida del territorio hasta por lo menos 9 meses despus del emplumamiento. La sobrevivencia anual fue de 47% en el primer ao, de 81% en el segundo ao y de 83% para aves en su tercer ao. Nuestros resultados apoyan la hiptesis de que los recursos antropognicos contribuyen al crecimiento de los nmeros de cuervos aumentando la sobrevivencia juvenil antes y despus de su salida de los territorios natales. Esperamos que los nmeros de cuervos aumenten en relacin con la presencia humana en el desierto de Mojave a menos que su acceso a los recursos antropognicos sea disminuido. 
10.2307/1368763|Thirteen territorial male Anna's Hummingbirds, Calypte anna, were observed during the 1981 and 1982 breeding seasons. Breeding territories were large, but size was not determined by energy availability. When a food source (sucrose solution in feeders) was present, the degree to which it was defended was a function of food quality. If a high-quality food source was absent, males did not exhibit the behaviors associated with defending a food source, but breeding territoriality remained intact. Territories were maintained for the entire breeding season even when food quality was varied. The lack of a relationship between the number of chases involving females and dive displays with variations in food quality, along with observations of long territory tenure, suggest that the primary function of the territory is reproductive and that an internal food source is not necessary for its maintenance.
10.1525/cond.2012.110064|We re-evaluate the plausibility that five species of birds that breed in late summer in northwestern Mexico are migratory double breeders that first bred earlier in the same season to the north. We use data aggregated from scientific collections to generate abundance indices that adjust counts of specimens in collections by collecting effort, which we measure as the number of passerines collected in the same region and time period as the species of interest. Our abundance indices generally show displaced phenologies, such that presumed double breeders arrive and breed early in the north, then later in northwestern Mexico. We also compare breeding records for these regions, but these records could not be corrected for effort. Our phenologies suggest that the breeding populations of the Yellow-billed Cuckoo (
10.2307/1367894|In the Southern California Bight (SCB), Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis californicus) breeding populations were apparently historically stable. They are again increasing after pollution-related declines in the late 1960's and early 1970's. This increase has been bolstered by recruitment into the breeding population of pelicans fledged outside the SCB area, but populations did not increase significantly until after improvements in reproduction of the SCB population itself. Nesting chronology is apparently related to food availability. Early-nesting, whether at Anacapa Island or Islas Los Coronados, usually confers a reproductive advantage. This advantage varies at each location; breeding populations reassort each year, apparently in response to variable food supplies. Shifting between two major breeding colonies in the SCB is apparently a response to a changing food supply distribution. Annual variations in normal (as opposed to pollution-affected) breeding population size result partly from changing proportions of the available adult population that actually breeds.
40306203|Resource availability in a heterogeneous environment and density-dependent processes may influence the spatial distribution of individuals among habitats. The distribution of nests of secondary cavity nesters is rarely clumped because the birds are constrained by the distribution of existing cavities as nest resources. In this study, to evaluate the interplay of environmental and behavioral processes in the spacing of parrot nests, we compared the spatial distribution of active Lilac-crowned Parrot (
10.2307/1368122|We investigated the vocalizations of the Ancient Murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus), a seabird of the North Pacific, to determine how the size and structure of their vocal repertoire relates to their nocturnal activity at breeding colonies. Nine distinct vocal displays were found, a repertoire of similar size to that of two other alcid species and several passerines. Most vocalizations consisted of broad band sounds with rapid frequency and amplitude modulation. The chirrup call, a short (0.5 sec) vocalization performed in many situations, did not differ in use or structure between the sexes. Chirrups had great individual stereotypy in structure, important in individual recognition of parents by young and possibly between mates. Song, a complex vocal display performed by males, was usually given from perches high in trees in the colony. Song may function in courtship and mate attraction, but apparently not for defense of long-lasting territories. Several song variants were recorded, at least one of which appeared to function as an agonistic signal to other males. Ancient Murrelet vocalizations have simple 'combinatorial' properties in that they consist of a few acoustic elements combined in various sequences to produce vocal displays with different functions. Although there was little evidence that the Ancient Murrelet repertoire was larger than those of other alcids, the vocalizations were structurally more complex and include the song-like male advertising display. This likely relates to the nocturnal timing of social behavior of this species, which must restrict the usefulness of visual displays. We conclude that Ancient Murrelet vocal signals exhibit a number of adaptations to the unusual habits of this nocturnal, forest-nesting seabird.
10.2307/1370144| Productivity of Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) was studied in north-central Washington during 1992-1996. Nest timing and success, clutch size, probability of nesting and renesting, and variation associated with age and year were examined for 84 females monitored with the aid of radio telemetry. Although date of nest initiation varied annually, yearling females (hatched in previous year) consistently nested later than adults; mean date of initiation of incubation was 22 April overall. The average nest contained 9.1 eggs and was incubated for 27 days. Clutch size was smaller for renests than for first nests; clutch size also varied annually. Although the overall rate of nest success was only 36.7%, all females apparently nested at least once, and at least 87.0% of females renested following predation of their first nests. As a result of renesting, annual breeding success was estimated as 61.3%. Percent of all females that produced a brood at least 50 days old was 49.5%; at least 33.4% of 515 chicks survived  50 days following hatch. Although the rates of nesting and renesting appear to have been under-estimated in other studied populations, Sage Grouse in north-central Washington display more reproductive effort overall; they lay more eggs and are more likely to nest and renest. 
10.2307/1368942|Distribution and abundance of large sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis tabida, Greater Sandhill Crane, and Grus canadensis rowani, Canadian Sandhill Crane) were studied in California's Central Valley during October-February 1983-1984 and 1984-1985. We estimated that the population contained 6,000-6,800 cranes which were concentrated at eight geographic locations from Chico to Pixley National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) near Delano. Ninety-five percent of the population occurred in the Sacramento Valley and the northeastern Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta (S-SJ Delta); portions of the winter range varied seasonally in their importance to the population in both winters. More than half the population used the Butte Sink region in the Sacramento Valley during October-November. From December through January the Thornton and Cosumnes regions on the S-SJ Delta hosted 56-76% of the population. Sightings and locations of 157 color-marked and 10 radiotagged Greater Sandhill Cranes confirmed the movements of the population among different portions of the winter range. Most wintering sites were in private ownership, and the majority of the nocturnal roosting sites were privately owned waterfowl hunting areas. Present population estimates range from 2.5 to 2.9 times the estimates of the late 1960s and mid-1970s; differences are largely explained by variation in the effort between this and earlier studies, and the increased concentration of cranes at wintering sites in the 1980s. More than half of the wintering population may originate in coastal and interior British Columbia. Cranes originating in Canada may belong to different breeding populations than those originating in Oregon and California, although they are sympatric during the winter. Studies of the cranes from British Columbia are needed to clarify the status of the large sandhill cranes wintering in California's Central Valley.
4122510| We marked 136 female Emperor Geese (Chen canagica) in western Alaska with VHF or satellite (PTT) transmitters from 1999 to 2003 to monitor their spring arrival and nest initiation dates on the Yukon Delta, and to estimate prelaying interval lengths once at the nesting area. Ninety-two females with functional transmitters returned to the Yukon Delta in the spring after they were marked, and we located the nests of 35 of these individuals. Prelaying intervals were influenced by when snow melted in the spring and individual arrival dates on the Yukon Delta. The median prelaying interval was 15 days (range = 12-19 days) in a year when snow melted relatively late, and 11 days (range = 4-16 days) in two warmer years when snow melted earlier. In years when snow melted earlier, prelaying intervals of <12 days for 11 of 15 females suggested they initiated rapid follicle development on spring staging areas. The prelaying interval declined by approximately 0.4 days and nest initiation date increased approximately 0.5 days for each day a female delayed her arrival. Thus, females that arrived first on the Yukon Delta had prelaying intervals up to four days longer, yet they nested up to five days earlier, than females that arrived last. The proximity of spring staging areas on the Alaska Peninsula to nesting areas on the Yukon Delta may enable Emperor Geese to alter timing of follicle development depending on annual conditions, and to invest nutrients acquired from both areas in eggs during their formation. Plasticity in timing of follicle development is likely advantageous in a variable environment where melting of snow cover in the spring can vary by 2-3 weeks annually. /// Entre 1999 y 2003, marcamos 136 hembras de Chen canagica en el oeste de Alaska con transmisores VHF o satelitales (PTT) para monitorear su arrivo durante la primavera y las fechas de iniciacin de nidos en el delta del Yukon, y para estimar la duracin de los intervalos previos a la postura una vez que llegaron a las reas de nidificacin. Un total de 92 hembras con transmisores funcionales regresaron al delta del Yukon en la primavera posterior al momento en que fueron marcadas, y localizamos los nidos de 35 de esos individuos. Los intervalos previos a la postura fueron influenciados por el momento en que se derriti la nieve en la primavera y las fechas individuales de arribo al delta. La mediana del intervalo fue de 15 das (rango = 12-19 das) en un ao en que la nieve se derriti relativamente tarde, y de 11 dias (rango = 4-16 das) en dos aos ms clidos en los que la nieve se derriti ms temprano. En aos en los que la nieve se derriti ms temprano, los intervalos previos a la postura menores que 12 das para 11 de 15 hembras sugirieron que stas iniciaron un desarrollo rpido de los folculos en las reas de descanso durante la primavera. La duracin del intervalo disminuy en aproximadamente 0.4 das y la fecha de iniciacin de los nidos increment en cerca de 0.5 das por cada da que una hembra retras su llegada. As, las hembras que llegaron primero al delta del Yukon presentaron intervalos previos a la postura de hasta cuatro das ms largos, pero anidaron hasta cinco das ms temprano que las hembras que arribaron ltimas. La proximidad de las reas de escala de primavera en la Pennsula de Alaska a las reas de nidificacin en el delta del Yukon podran permitirle a estas aves alterar el desarrollo de los folculos dependiendo de las condiciones anuales, e invertir los nutrientes adquiridos en ambas reas en la formatin de huevos. La plasticidad en cuanto al momento en que se desarrollan los folculos probablemente resulta ventajosa en un ambiente variable en donde el momento en que se derrite la cobertura de nieve en la primavera puede variar anualmente entre 2 y 3 semanas. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090229|Nesting structures are important for successful reproduction in most birds, and, because of this, geographic variation in nest morphology and composition are usually interpreted as adaptations to breeding in different environments. We compared the structure of nests of Yellow Warblers (
10.2307/1367026|Silver Gulls (Larus novaehollandiae) stole fish from Crested Terns (Sterna bergii) at One Tree Island, Great Barrier Reef, Australia. They attempted to steal larger fish of several kinds more often than smaller ones up to a point, but did not try to steal the largest fish most frequently. Silver Gulls preferred disclike fish 8-10 cm long and cone-like fish 14-16 cm long. The likelihood that gulls would try to steal a fish was influenced by such factors as its length, weight, shape, and availability, of which weight appeared to be particularly important. Robbing success differed significantly with length in only three of the 11 types of prey available. Gulls robbed in various ways, the success of which depended on a tern's maneuverability, method of evasion, and speed of reaction to pirates.
10.2307/1368303|Lipid reserves of 116 adult (>1 year of age) male Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) were evaluated in two Colorado populations during lek attendance between 1983 and 1986. Lipid reserves following winters (November-March) with snowfalls <124 cm were larger (P < 0.001) than reserves following winters with snowfalls >160 cm. Lipid reserves during early courtship were larger than reserves during late courtship (P < 0.001). Males catabolized lipids during courtship but did not use breast muscle protein. Catabolism of lipids likely provides <5% of male energetic requirements during courtship. An adaptive advantage to fat deposition before breeding may exist if males primarily mobilize lipids during the peak period of female lek attendance when male reproductive success is determined, or during periods when thermoregulatory costs are high due to low ambient temperatures or wind.
10.2307/1369779| Natal dispersal is a key life-history component that may be influenced by the fitness consequences of inbreeding. We studied natal dispersal and inbreeding within a large population of cooperatively breeding, endangered Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis). We assessed the costs of close inbreeding, the spatial distribution of related males and its relationship to dispersal distance of females, and the change in dispersal behavior of females in the presence of closely related males. Close inbreeding resulted in a significant loss of fitness, through two separate effects: closely related pairs (kinship coefficient  0.125) exhibited lowered hatching rates and lowered survival and recruitment of fledglings relative to unrelated pairs. Despite a highly predictable spatial clustering of closely related males near the female's natal territory, natal dispersal distance of females was not sufficient to avoid these males as mates. Females changed dispersal behavior in the presence of closely related males on the natal territory: female fledglings were significantly more likely to disperse from natal territories if there were closely related males breeding there in the following year. Females did not change dispersal behavior in the presence of related males that were not on the natal territory. We suggest that dispersal behavior is a trade-off between benefits of short-distance dispersal, e.g., an advantage in competing for scarce breeding vacancies, and the substantial cost of close inbreeding. 
10.2307/1367495|Two of the three recognized subspecies of the Western Gull (Larus occidentalis) breed along the west coast of the United States and Baja California and closely resemble each other (L. o. occidentalis and L. o. wymani). The third subspecies (L. o. livens), endemic to the Gulf of California, differs in several characteristics, including voice. I compared eight vocalizations of L. o. occidentalis with L. o. livens, and compared Long Calls of all L. occidentalis subspecies to species breeding to the north (L. glaucescens) and south (L. dominicanus). Vocalizations of livens are distinctive and further support its classification as a separate species. Long Calls of livens are low pitched, presumably adapted for long distance propagation in a relatively quiet environment; occidentalis/wymani Long Calls have features that may facilitate their localization by receivers.
10.1525/cond.2009.090004|Little is known about the movements and habitat selection of California Black Rails (
10.2307/1370446|Cavity-nesting birds are important components of the avifauna in Pacific Northwest forests and are of special concern to land managers because of their reliance upon snags for nesting habitat. Because most research and management has focused on nesting habitat of cavity-nesting birds, the foraging ecology of cavity-nesting birds has generally been neglected. We studied the foraging ecology of the Chestnut-backed Chickadee (Poecile rufescens), Red-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta canadensis), Brown Creeper (Certhia americana), and Hairy Woodpecker (Picoides villosus) in 30- to 45-year-old, Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) forests of the Coast Range of Oregon. All four species were selective in their use of foraging substrates. Hardwoods were selected over conifers by Chestnut-backed Chickadees and Hairy Woodpeckers. In relation to randomly chosen live trees, Chestnut-backed Chickadees, Red-breasted Nuthatches, and Hairy Woodpeckers selected trees that were larger in diameter, and Brown Creepers selected trees with deeper furrows in the bark. Large diameter, heavily decayed snags and logs were selected for foraging by the Hairy Woodpecker. Foraging needs should be taken into account when managing habitat for cavity-nesting birds.
10.2307/1369794|We examined the influence of vegetation and predator community on nesting success of songbirds in the grasslands of eastern North Dakota, USA. Each year, eight sites were chosen: four were subject to predator removal, and four were non-removal sites. On each site, nests of grassland songbirds were monitored, and simulated nests were used to examine how vegetation characteristics at nests affect nest success. Vegetative characteristics at simulated nests did not differ from those at natural nests, but successful natural nests had greater forb and lesser grass cover than unsuccessful nests, whereas no differences in vegetation were detected between successful and depredated simulated nests. On non-removal sites, small mammals and ground squirrels (Spermophilus sp.) depredated nests in taller and denser cover when compared to nests destroyed by medium-sized mammals and birds. On removal sites, we found no difference in vegetation characteristics of nests depredated by different predator types. However, each group of mammalian predators depredated simulated nests with different vegetation characteristics on removal versus non-removal sites. On sites where predators were removed, small mammals and ground squirrels preyed on simulated nests in shorter vegetation containing fewer forbs, ground squirrels preyed on nests with higher grass cover and lower vertical density, and medium-sized carnivores preyed on nests in taller vegetation. These results support the hypothesis that high predator diversity may reduce the chance of "safe" nest sites, and suggest that the behavior of low-level predators may change when top-level predators are removed.
10.2307/1368445| We observed the underwater behavior of captive Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria), Lesser Scaups (A. affinis), and Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) while they foraged on a variety of food items in a large aquarium. Canvasbacks probed into the substrate with the bill and body oriented perpendicular to the bottom. Lesser Scaups and Ruddy Ducks strained food items from the substrate surface by moving their bills in short, lateral arcs while rapidly opening and closing their mandibles; their bills and bodies were oriented at a 35 to 45 angle to the substrate. Scaup also fed by grasping prey in the water column, where they appeared to locate prey visually. Ruddy Ducks did not appear to select prey visually. The species also differed in their underwater locomotory behavior and postures; these differences probably are related to the prey and conditions typically encountered by each. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090162|The choices animals make in dispersal are of interest because they describe in part how populations adjust to a changing environment. We investigated which factors influence whether adult Florida Scrub-Jays delay breeding within their natal territories or disperse to breed. Factors considered included those pertaining to individuals (sex, age, parents), breeding opportunities (territory densities, deaths of breeders, potential mates, competitors [nonbreeders of the same sex]), and habitat (quality, suburb versus conservation area). We compared models that included each of these factors or combinations of them. We used nomograms to evaluate effect sizes and post hoc analyses to explore nonlinear effects of variables and their relative importance. Models that included only one or a few variables had little support. Models with the greatest support included parents, deaths of breeders, age, sex, and potential mates. Increased deaths of breeders greatly decreased the probabilities of delayed dispersal. Dispersal was most delayed if both parents or just the father remained breeders. One-year-olds and males delayed dispersal more than older nonbreeders and females. Post hoc analyses revealed that the probability of delayed breeding was lowest at intermediate densities of potential mates, suggesting that at low densities Florida Scrub-Jays delay breeding because they can't find mates and at high densities because of high competition to fill vacancies left by breeders' deaths. Our results are important because they suggest that no single factor explains delayed breeding adequately and that factors important for population recovery and minimizing extinction risk are also important for maintaining cooperative breeding behavior.
4151088| We combined Breeding Bird Survey point count protocol and distance sampling to survey spring migrant and breeding birds in Vicksburg National Military Park on 33 days between March and June of 2003 and 2004. For 26 of 106 detected species, we used program DISTANCE to estimate detection probabilities and densities from 660 3-min point counts in which detections were recorded within four distance annuli. For most species, estimates of detection probability, and thereby density estimates, were improved through incorporation of the proportion of forest cover at point count locations as a covariate. Our results suggest Breeding Bird Surveys would benefit from the use of distance sampling and a quantitative characterization of habitat at point count locations. During spring migration, we estimated that the most common migrant species accounted for a population of 5000-9000 birds in Vicksburg National Military Park (636 ha). Species with average populations of >300 individuals during migration were: Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea), Cedar Waxwing (Bombycilla cedrorum), White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus), Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea), and Ruby-crowned Kinglet (Regulus calendula). Of 56 species that bred in Vicksburg National Military Park, we estimated that the most common 18 species accounted for >8150 individuals. The six most abundant breeding species, Blue-gray Gnatcatcher, White-eyed Vireo, Summer Tanager (Piranga rubra), Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), Carolina Wren (Thryothorusludovicianus), and Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), accounted for >5800 individuals. /// Combinamos datos de censos de aves reproductivas realizados mediante un protocolo de conteos por punto con muestreos en que se registra la distancia para censar las aves migratorias de primavera y las residentes en Vicksburg National Military Park durante 33 das entre marzo y junio de 2003 y 2004. Para 26 de las 106 especies detectadas, empleamos el progama DISTANCE para estimar las probabilidades de deteccin y las densidades a partir de 660 conteos por punto de 3 minutos de duracin, en los que las detecciones fueron registradas en cuatro rangos de distancia alrededor de los puntos de conteo. Para la mayora de las especies, los estimados de la probabilidad de deteccin (y por lo tanto de la densidad) se mejoraron mediante la incorporacin de la proporcin de cobertura boscosa en el sitio de conteo como una covariable. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los censos de aves reproductivas se beneficiaran del uso de muestreos con distancia y de caracterizaciones cuantitativas del hbitat en los puntos de conteo. Durante la migracin de primavera, estimamos que las especies de migrantes ms comunes representaron una poblacin de 5000 a 9000 aves en Vicksburg National Military Park (636 ha). Las especies con tamaos poblacionales promedio mayores que 300 individuos durante la migracin fueron Polioptila caerulea, Bombycilla cedrorum, Vireo griseus, Passerina cyanea y Regulus calendula. Estimamos que ms de 8150 de los individuos correspondieron a las 18 especies ms comunes entre las 56 que se reprodujeron en el rea de estudio. Ms de 5800 individuos pertenecieron a las seis especies reproductivas ms abundantes: P. cerulea, V. griseus, Piranga rubra, Cardinalis cardinalis, Thryothorus ludovicianus y Molothrus ater. 
10.2307/1368695| We describe a new intergeneric hybrid hummingbird, Heliodoxa leadbeateri  Heliangelus amethysticollis, from the Eastern Cordillera of the Colombian Andes based on external characteristics. A hypothesis of parentage based on external characteristics is supported by cranial features. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100035|We studied environmental and maternal factors explaining bacterial loads on eggshells in a population of a hole-nesting passerine, the Pied Flycatcher (
10.2307/1369639| We examined sources of variation in incubation patterns among female Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa), and investigated the effect of female nest attentiveness on incubation period. Data were collected from 44 females (n = 911 days) using temperature data loggers to monitor nest attendance throughout incubation. Mean ( SE) incubation constancy was 86.9  0.6% and incubation period averaged 30.9  0.2 days. Females took an average of two bimodally-distributed recesses per day. Duration of recesses averaged 98.6  3.4 min, but were shorter in the morning than in mid-day or late afternoon. Body mass of incubating females declined 0.68  0.2 g day<sup>-1</sup>, but there was no relationship between constancy and early incubation body mass or weight change of females. Incubation constancy was not correlated with length of the incubation period. For most females, incubation constancy and recess frequency did not change as incubation progressed. The fact that incubating females only lost an average of 3% of body mass, and constancy was not related to either body mass or length of the incubation period, suggests that females were not constrained energetically. Finally, we propose that the combination of reduced predation risk and the need of neonates to be more functionally mature at hatching has selected for longer incubation periods in Wood Ducks and other cavity-nesting waterfowl. 
10.2307/1368441| Predation pressure on nests of ground-nesting birds was examined experimentally by offering predators artificial nests with small, white chicken eggs in three adjacent habitats: marsh, wet meadow, and upland thicket. In each habitat, 40 nests with eggs were distributed in three 80-  80-m quadrats according to random, uniform, and clumped distribution patterns and nests were examined for predation on days 5 and 10. In three sets of experiments during which each quadrat in each habitat received all nest distribution treatments, predation rates were highest in the upland thicket, intermediate in the wet meadow, and generally low in the marsh. The pattern of nest distribution consistently affected predation rates in the upland thicket only, where the uniform distribution resulted in lower predation. In the upland thicket many predators were responsible for high predation and unpredictable predation patterns which presumably favor spacing out (uniform nest distribution) in this habitat. In contrast, low predation in the marsh, resulting from exclusion of many predators, appears to be unimportant in determining spatial distribution of marsh-nesting birds. 
10.2307/1368615|We calculated the energy budget of nestling Yellow-eyed Juncos (Junco phaeonotus) from measurements of their growth, field metabolic rate (FMR), and resting metabolic rate (RMR). We used the doubly labeled water technique to measure the FMR of 69 nestlings that ranged in mass from 4.1 to 15.3 g. We calculated RMR of fed nestlings during the day and fasted nestlings at night from measurements of their O<sub>2</sub> consumption. Nestling FMR (kJ/hr) increased linearly with mass (m, grams) according to the relation: FMR = -0.44 + 0.14m. RMR (kJ/hr) = -0.11 + 0.08m for fed nestlings during the day, and RMR = -0.10 + 0.06m for fasted nestlings at night. The growth of 75 nestling juncos was best described by the logistic equation m = 18.53/(1 + (6.5e<sup>-0.471t</sup>)); where t is age in days and m is mass in grams. The growth constant (k = 0.471) is not significantly different from that predicted allometrically for an altricial species with an asymptotic mass of 18.5 g. Total metabolized energy of nestlings averaged 322 to 483 kJ/bird over the 9 to 12 day nestling period (depending on age at fledging). Of the total energy metabolized, RMR comprised 46-48%, whereas activity and thermoregulation combined accounted for 30-33%. The energy accumulated in tissue was estimated to be 84-95 kJ, or 20-26% of the total metabolized energy.
10.2307/1369783| I documented the use by nesting birds and availability of arboreal termite nests (termitaria) in the Peruvian Amazon. Birds occupy about 1% of the termitaria annually, suggesting that termitarium availability does not limit reproductive output. Birds choose termitaria that are larger and higher than average, and the three most common termitarium-nesting species differ in their use of termitaria. Two species of Brotogeris parakeets use termitaria with similar characteristics, but Tui Parakeets (B. sanctithomae) nest in young forests and edge habitats whereas Cobalt-winged Parakeets (B. cyanoptera) use mature forests. Termitaria used by Black-tailed Trogons (Trogon melanurus) are larger and lower than those used by the two Brotogeris species. The contention that birds usually nest in termitaria still occupied by termites was upheld, but the presence or absence of termites did not explain a significant proportion of the difference between used and available termitaria after removing the effects of height, volume, and substrate type. Birds choose to nest in termitaria inhabited by both termites and aggressive biting ants (Dolichoderus sp.). These ants may be protecting the birds' nests by attacking predators or by providing a sort of "olfactory camouflage." /// En el presente estudio se documenta el uso de termiteros arbreos por tres especies de aves (Brotogeris cyanoptera, B. sanctithomae, y Trogon melanurus) y su disponibilidad en un bosque no intervenido en la Amazona Peruana. Los resultados revelaron que las aves estudiadas anidaron en 1% de los termiteros encontrados anualmente, lo cual sugiere que la disponibilidad de termiteros no est limitando la reproduccin. Las aves seleccionaron los termiteros que, en altitud sobre el nivel del suelo y volumen, sobre pasan los valores promedios. Las tres especies de aves ms comunes que anidan en termiteros presentan diferentes nichos de anidificacin. Las dos especies de pericos B. cyanoptera y B. sanctithomae usan termiteros con caractersticas similares. Sin embargo, B. sanctithomae anida en bosques sucesionales tempranos y hbitats de borde, mientras que B. cyanoptera usa termiteros en bosque maduro. Los termiteros usados por Trogon melanurus son ms grandes y bajos en altitud que los usados por las dos especies de Brotogeris. Se ha confirmado que las aves normalmente anidan en termiteros an ocupados por termites (activos), sin embargo la presencia de termites no explica una parte significativa de la variancia entre termiteros usados y no usados despus de sacar los efectos de altura, volumen y tipo de substrato. Las aves seleccionan los termiteros que estn ocupados por termites y hormigas agresivas del gnero Dolichoderus. Se presume que estas hormigas estaran protegiendo los nidos de ataques por parte de depredadores. Se sugiere que olores intensos caractersticas en este tipo de hormigas podran estar sirviendo como  camuflaje olfatorio a los nidos. 
90008527|Habitat Conservation Plans (HCPs) are a mechanism used for conserving land and often have an umbrella species associated with them. We conducted occupancy surveys for an umbrella species, the Coastal California Gnatcatcher (
4122509| We studied the growth and survival of Spectacled Eider (Somateria fischeri) ducklings to 30 days of age along the lower Kashunuk River on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta from 1995 to 2000. We replicated this study at a second site, Kigigak Island, in 1999 and 2000. Age-adjusted estimates of duckling mass and survival at 30 days posthatching were highly variable. Duckling survival was consistently higher on Kigigak Island in 1999 and 2000, averaging 67%, while survival on the Kashunuk River averaged 45% during the same time period. Duckling survival was negatively related to hatching date. At the Kashunuk River site our data supported models that indicated age-adjusted mass varied with habitat type and declined with hatching date. Ducklings from Kashunuk River were heavier in 1999, while ducklings from Kigigak Island were heavier in 2000. However, we found a positive correlation between 30-day duckling survival and age-adjusted mass, suggesting a localized environmental effect on both parameters. We conclude that predation may be the proximate mechanism of mortality, but habitat conditions are likely the ultimate factors influencing duckling survival. Geographic variation in rates of duckling survival and apparent growth suggest that spatial heterogeneity in population vital rates is occurring at multiple levels. /// Estudiamos el crecimiento y la supervivencia de los polluelos de Somateria fischeri hasta los 30 das de edad a lo largo de la cuenca baja del Ro Kashunuk, en el Delta de Yukon-Kuskokwim, desde 1995 hasta 2000. Replicamos este estudio en otro sitio, la Isla Kigigak, en 1999 y 2000. Los estimados de la masa y la supervivencia de los polluelos ajustados por la edad, posteriores a los 30 das de la eclosin, fueron altamente variables. La supervivencia de los polluelos promedi el 67% y fue consistentemente mayor en la Isla Kigigak en 1999 y 2000, mientras que la supervivencia en el Ro Kashunuk promedi el 45% durante el mismo periodo de tiempo. La supervivencia de los polluelos se relacion negativamente con la fecha de eclosin. Nuestros datos del sitio del Ro Kashunuk apoyan los modelos que indican que la masa ajustada por la edad vara con el tipo de ambiente y declina con la fecha de eclosin. Los polluelos del Ro Kashunuk fueron ms pesados en 1999, mientras que los polluelos de la Isla Kigigak fueron ms pesados en 2000. Sin embargo, encontramos una correlatin positiva entre la supervivencia de los polluelos a los 30 das y la masa ajustada por la edad, sugiriendo un efecto ambiental localizado en ambos parmetros. Concluimos que la depredatin puede ser el mecanismo prximo que cause la mortalidad, pero que las condiciones del ambiente son probablemente los factores ltimos que influencian la supervivencia de los polluelos. La variatin geogrfica en la tasa de supervivencia de los polluelos y el crecimiento aparente sugieren que la heterogeneidad espacial en las tasas poblacionales vitales ocurre a mltiples niveles. 
1370655| Controversy has sometimes arisen over whether there is a need to accommodate the limitations of survey design in estimating population change from the count data collected in bird surveys. Analyses of surveys such as the North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) can be quite complex; it is natural to ask if the complexity is necessary, or whether the statisticians have run amok. Bart et al. (2003) propose a very simple analysis involving nothing more complicated than simple linear regression, and contrast their approach with model-based procedures. We review the assumptions implicit to their proposed method, and document that these assumptions are unlikely to be valid for surveys such as the BBS. One fundamental limitation of a purely design-based approach is the absence of controls for factors that influence detection of birds at survey sites. We show that failure to model observer effects in survey data leads to substantial bias in estimation of population trends from BBS data for the 20 species that Bart et al. (2003) used as the basis of their simulations. Finally, we note that the simulations presented in Bart et al. (2003) do not provide a useful evaluation of their proposed method, nor do they provide a valid comparison to the estimating-equations alternative they consider. /// A veces ha surgido controversia sobre la necesidad de considerar las limitantes del diseo de muestreo al estimar cambios poblacionales a partir de datos de conteos de aves. Los anlisis de muestreos como el Muestreo de Aves Reproductivas de Amrica del Norte (North American Breeding Bird Survey [BBS]) pueden ser bastante complejos; es natural preguntarse si esta complejidad es necesaria, o si los anlisis estadsticos son desmedidos. Bart et al. (2003) proponen un anlisis muy simple que slo involucra regresin lineal simple, y contrastan su enfoque con los procedimientos basados en modelos. Nosotros revisamos los supuestos implcitos en el mtodo que ellos proponen y documentamos que estos supuestos no son probablemente vlidos para muestreos tales como el BBS. Una limitante fundamental de un enfoque basado exclusivamente en el diseo es la ausencia de controles para factores que influencian la deteccin de aves en los sitios de muestreo. Mostramos que el hecho de no modelar los efectos del observador en los datos de muestreo lleva a sesgos substanciales en las estimaciones de las tendencias poblacionales de las 20 especies que Bart et al. (2003) usaron como la base de sus simulaciones a partir de datos del BBS. Finalmente, notamos que las simulaciones presentadas en Bart et al. (2003) no brindan una evaluacin til del mtodo que proponen ni tampoco ofrecen una comparacin vlida para la alternativa de estimacin de ecuaciones que ellos consideran. 
10.2307/1368142|We investigated geographical and temporal variation in clutch size, brood size, and fledging success in three common passerine species in shrubsteppe habitats of the northern Great Basin of western North America. Over a 2-year period we surveyed three vegetationally similar sites spanning a latitudinal gradient of 650 km (the geographical component), one of which we sampled for five consecutive years (the temporal component). Clutch sizes of Sage (Amphispiza belli) and Brewer's (Spizella breweri) sparrows did not differ significantly among sites, but brood sizes and (for Brewer's Sparrow) fledging success did. These geographical differences were associated with site-specific variation in nest-predation rates and were attributed to differences in the abundances of snakes. Nests at a site in central Oregon that lacked snakes suffered virtually no predation during the 2-year geographical sampling, whereas nests in southeastern Washington and northern Nevada suffered significantly higher rates (40% and 93%, respectively). During the 5-year temporal sampling at the central Oregon site, all measured reproductive parameters of Sage and Brewer's sparrows and clutch size in Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) varied significantly. Although the region experienced extremes of precipitation during this period, in Sage Sparrows only brood size was significantly correlated with rainfall during the previous winter. The principal source of variation in Sage Sparrow final reproductive success was predation, which peaked during an outbreak of Townsend's ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendi) in 1979. This ground squirrel irruption appeared to be triggered by a pattern of a drought year followed by two relatively wet years, beginning in winter 1976-1977. Although Brewer's Sparrows also experienced considerable predation pressure in 1979, clutch size, brood size, and fledging success were significantly correlated with winter precipitation. No component of Sage Thrasher reproduction was associated with climatic variation. The relationship between avian reproductive success and precipitation in arid regions is more complex than the traditional view of desert birds responding directly to increased primary and secondary productivity; such relationships are indirectly influenced by the effects of rainfall on predator populations, and are further complicated by time lags (up to 2 years) in predator response.
10.2307/1369516|We analyzed the population dynamics of Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus) breeding at the Palomarin Field Station of the Point Reyes Bird Observatory using 15 years (1980-1994) of long-term, standardized mist-net data. The capture rates of adults and hatching-year birds provided indices of adult abundance and productivity respectively. Annual variation of these indices was high, and linear regression analysis revealed no long-term trends. However, numbers of new and total adults captured in a given year were significantly dependent on the number of hatching-year birds caught the previous year. In addition, per capita productivity was inversely density-dependent and may partially regulate adult abundance. These results suggest that Swainson's Thrushes at Palomarin are most limited by the production of young on the breeding grounds. Return rates of hatching-year birds were exceptionally high compared to other species (18.3%). Strong habitat specificity on the breeding grounds may elevate this return rate and strengthen the link between productivity and adult abundance in this population.
1370651| At Boundary Bay, British Columbia, Canada, Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) captured 94 Dunlins (Calidris alpina) in 652 hunts. The two main hunting methods were open attacks on flying Dunlins (62%) and stealth attacks on roosting or foraging Dunlins (35%). Peregrines hunted throughout the day, yet the kill rate per observation hour dropped 1-2 hr before high tide and peaked 1-2 hr after high tide. The drop in kill rate coincided with the departure of the mass of Dunlins for over-ocean flights lasting 2-4 hr. The peak in kill rate occurred just after the tide began to ebb and the Dunlins returned to forage in the shore zone. The hypothesis that closeness to shoreline vegetation is dangerous for Dunlins is supported by three converging lines of evidence: (1) the high success rate (44%) of peregrine hunts over the shore zone compared to the rate (11%) over tide flats and ocean; (2) the high kill rate per observation hour at high tide; and (3) the positive correlation of kill rate with the height of the tides. Seven of 13 Dunlins killed by Merlins (Falco columbarius) and all five Dunlins killed by Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) were also captured in the shore zone. /// En la Baha Boundary, Columbia Britnica, Canad, halcones Falco peregrinus capturaron 94 ejemplares de Calidris alpina en 652 horas. Los dos mtodos principales de caza fueron ataques abiertos sobre individuos que estaban volando (62%) y ataques encubiertos sobre individuos que estaban posados o forrajeando (35%). F. peregrinus caz a lo largo del da, pero la tasa de matanza por hora de observacin disminuy 1-2 hr antes de la pleamar y alcanz un mximo 1-2 hr despus de la pleamar. La cada en la tasa de matanza coincidi con la partida en masa de C. alpina para realizar vuelos sobre el ocano que duraron 2-4 hr. El pico en la tasa de matanza ocurri justo despus de que la marea comenz a menguar y de que los individuos de C. alpina regresaron a forrajear a la zona de playa. La hiptesis de que la cercana de la vegetacin a la lnea de playa es peligrosa para C. alpina es apoyada por tres lneas convergentes de evidencia: (1) la alta tasa de xito (44%) de las caceras de F. peregrinus sobre la zona de playa comparada con la tasa (11%) de las caceras sobre los planos de la marea y el ocano; (2) la alta tasa de matanza por hora de observacin durante la pleamar; y (3) la correlacin positiva de la tasa de matanza con la altura de las mareas. Siete de 13 individuos de C. alpina cazados por F. columbarius y todos 5 individuos de C. alpina cazados por Circus cyaneus tambin fueron atrapados en la zona de playa. 
10.2307/1367347| I examined colony site tenacity, turnover rates, and causes of reproductive failure in Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) nesting in coastal New Jersey from 1976 through 1982. During this period Least Terns used 44 colony sites, although only 17-29 (mean = 22) sites were used in any one year. Population levels ranged from 942 to 2,469 birds (mean = 1,817, SD = 513). The number of breeding terns increased significantly during the study period. Annual turnover rates varied from 0.16 to 0.30 (mean = 0.22, SD = 0.05), and were intermediate to low compared to those for other coastal-nesting terns, gulls (Larus spp.), and Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger). Reproductive success for the Least Tern colonies in New Jersey averaged 0.48 young per pair (SD = 0.22). The causes of reproductive failure were similar among colonies, except that colonies with over 80 birds suffered higher losses due to predators than colonies with fewer than 80 birds. I suggest that the large, mainland colonies are more vulnerable to predators because they are more stable (making their presence known to predators) and predators have easy access. Human disturbance accounted for over half of the reproductive failures of Least Tern colonies. The low turnover rate and high loss to human activity suggest that reproductive success can be improved by increased protection. 
10.2307/1369903|We collected boluses and food remains of adult Glaucous Gulls (Larus hyperboreus) at or near nests and chicks, and digestive tracts from adults at three sites on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska that differed in proximity to marine and terrestrial foods. We observed both geographic and temporal variation in diet; gulls consumed proportionately more terrestrial prey after peak hatch in late June, and gulls near the coast consumed proportionately more marine prey than gulls at two inland areas. Goslings occurred in > 60% of all samples from these inland areas. We compared these data to those from a previous study in western Alaska and found no marked differences. Evidence for similar patterns of geographic and temporal variation in diet was found using measurements of stable-carbon and nitrogen isotopes in gull and prey tissues. Stable isotope analysis further revealed that adult gulls consumed proportionately more marine prey (saffron cod, Eleginus gracilis) than they fed to their young. Using isotopic models, we estimated that 7-22% and 10-23% of the diet of adult and juvenile Glaucous Gulls, respectively, was comprised of terrestrial species. In addition to significant age-related variation, dietary estimates varied among geographic areas and between pre- and post-hatch periods. Overall, our isotopic estimates of the contribution of terrestrial prey to the diet of Glaucous Gulls was less than what may be inferred from conventional methods of diet analysis. Our study emphasizes the benefit of combining stable-isotope and conventional analyses to infer temporal and geographic changes in diet of wild birds and other organisms.
10.1525/cond.2013.120153|In long-lived animals, survival rate is a key demographic parameter affecting population dynamics. The objective of this study was to estimate the apparent survival rate of adult Long-tailed Jaegers (
10.1525/cond.2012.100181|We studied the responses of the Brown Creeper (
1370546| We studied time budgets of precocial chicks of American Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis dominica) on the tundra near Churchill, Manitoba, Canada, to assess how time budgets are influenced by environmental and body temperatures. Foraging time per day increased with increasing ambient temperatures and levels of solar radiation, as well as with age. This increase was due to an increase in the length of foraging bouts (i.e., the period of time in between two brooding bouts). The length of brooding bouts averaged 12 min, independent of ambient conditions or age. Body temperatures were lower under colder environmental conditions and increased as the chicks grew older. Based on measurements of cooling rates of penned chicks, we determined that at the end of a foraging bout, body temperature never fell below 35.5C, which is high for a precocial chick. We suggest that in Churchill, American Golden-Plover chicks are not limited in their foraging time by ambient conditions, and they can collect sufficient food in the short periods of foraging that are available to them to sustain normal growth. By minimizing foraging bout length in favor of parental brooding, chicks may increase their digestive efficiency as well as save energy that would otherwise be expended on thermoregulation and locomotion. /// Se estudi el presupuesto de tiempo de polluelos precociales de Pluvialis dominica en la tundra ubicada en las cercanas de Churchill, Manitoba, Canad, para evaluar de qu manera el presupuesto de tiempo est influenciado por las temperaturas ambiental y corporal. El tiempo de forrajeo increment con el aumento de la temperatura ambiental, con los niveles de radiacin solar y con la edad. Esto se debi a un incremento de la duracin de las sesiones de forrajeo (es decir, el periodo de tiempo entre dos sesiones de empollamiento). La duracin de las sesiones de empollamiento tuvo una media de 12 min, independientemente de las condiciones ambientales o de la edad. Las temperaturas corporales fueron inferiores bajo condiciones ambientales ms fras, y aumentaron conforme a la edad de los polluelos. En base a medidas de la tasa de enfriamiento de pollos cautivos, es posible precisar que al final de una sesin de forrajeo, la temperatura corporal nunca es menor de 35.5C, el cual es un valor elevado para un polluelo precocial. Sugerimos que en Churchill, el tiempo de forrajeo de los polluelos de P. dominica no est limitado por las condiciones ambientales y que los polluelos pueden acopiar suficiente alimento durante las cortas sesiones de forrajeo que disponen para mantener un crecimiento normal. La disminucin de la duracin de la sesin de forrajeo en favor de la incubacin, les permite aumentar su eficacia digestiva y ahorrar energa, la que de otro modo podra emplearse en termorregulacin o locomocin. 
40072419|Mountain Plover (
10.2307/1368882|Elegant Terns (Sterna elegans) at San Diego had high reproductive success in 1980 and 1981; 86% of incubated eggs hatched, and over 97% of hatched chicks fledged. Tern chicks were most frequently fed northern anchovy (Engraulis mordax). Age compositions of anchovy samples taken from the commercial fishery and of those fed to chicks overlapped extensively, suggesting potential for competition for anchovies between nesting Elegant Terns and the fishery. Elegant Tern production was strongly correlated with anchovy abundance for 1979 to 1983.
10.1525/cond.2011.090226|The tamarisk beetle (
10.2307/1368144|Feral pigeons (Columba livia) showed two sorts of nonrandom mating: size-based assortative mating and plumage-based disassortative mating. Size-based mating was evident in that individuals of like sizes were paired; such mating was presumably based on perception of size or a size-correlated variable, such as social dominance rank, by both sexes. Plumage-based pairing was evident in that individuals of unlike plumages were bonded; this was based on perception of unlike plumage patterns, probably by females. Both size-based and plumage-based pairing influenced reproductive output.
10.2307/1367375|Fifty Bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus) were randomly divided into two equal-size coveys at six weeks of age. At 12 weeks the separation ("hoy-poo") call was recorded from birds in both coveys. Duration and frequency characters were measured and subjected to discriminant analysis. This analysis indicated that each covey could be segregated mainly on the difference in duration between the "hoy" and "poo" parts of the call. Another duration character and one frequency character also contributed to segregation of the call types of the two coveys. The differences in the separation call that occurred between coveys most likely resulted from within-covey learning, where those birds associated with each other developed similarities in their calls in the form of an accent or covey dialect.
10.1525/cond.2010.080071|The energy expenditure associated with breeding may have detrimental effects on the breeder's physiology. Some studies have focused on the relationship between breeding performance and health status, but information on the link with biochemical variables reflecting susceptibility to oxidative stress is scarce. Over two years (2005 and 2006), using several morphological, biochemical and hematological variables, we measured the association between several measures of breeding (laying date, clutch size, mean egg weight, brood size, number of fledglings, and mean weight before fledging) and health in the Great Tit (
1370515| We investigated the relationship between foraging woodpeckers and the decomposition of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) snags in the central and southern Cascades of Oregon and northern California. Our main objectives were (1) to compare the relative sapwood density of 4-year-old pine snags receiving varying levels of woodpecker foraging; and (2) to determine if woodpeckers were carriers of wood-inhabiting fungi. Snags used as foraging sites by woodpeckers had lower wood densities than snags that did not exhibit foraging sign. Additionally, wood-inhabiting fungi were recovered in significantly greater frequencies from the bills of woodpeckers than a comparison of non-cavity-nesting species. These results suggest that woodpeckers may contribute to the mechanical degradation of wood through foraging activities and the dispersal of a collection of fungi that likely participate in the process of decay for ponderosa pine snags. The complexity of these ecological interactions should be considered when planning snag management in coniferous forests. /// Investigamos la relacin entre las actividades de forrajeo de los carpinteros y la descomposicin de tocones de Pinus ponderosa en el centro y sur de las Cascades de Oregon y el norte de California. Nuestros objetivos principales fueron (1) comparar la densidad relativa de la albura de tocones de pino de 4 aos de edad afectados por distintos niveles de forrajeo por parte de los carpinteros; y (2) determinar si los carpinteros transportaron hongos de la madera. Los tocones usados como sitios de forrajeo por los carpinteros tuvieron densidades de madera menores que los tocones que no presentaron seales de forrajeo. Adicionalmente, los hongos de la madera fueron encontrados con mayor frecuencia en los picos de los carpinteros que en especies que no nidifican en cavidades. Estos resultados sugieren que los carpinteros pueden contribuir a la degradacin mecnica de la madera mediante las actividades de forrajeo y la dispersin de una variedad de hongos que probablemente participan en el proceso de descomposicin de los tocones de P. ponderosa. La complejidad de estas interacciones ecolgicas debera ser considerada a la hora de planear el manejo de los tocones en los bosques de conferas. 
10.2307/1368071|We report the results of a biometric study of adult Brown Noddies (Anous stolidus) nesting within the Culebra National Wildlife Refuge, Puerto Rico in 1985-1988. The body mass of adults varied significantly between years, but linear measurements did not. Males were significantly larger than females in all body measurements. This difference also was reflected within pairs. A discriminant function using head-bill and wing length successfully predicted the sex of 90% of birds. Measurements of male and female partners indicated that they were not paired at random with respect to body mass and showed positive assortative mating for this character. The causes and consequences of this relationship are discussed.
10.2307/1369726|Molt-breeding overlap and the extent of molt of primary feathers were studied in the Southern Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialoides) in relation to breeding status, sex, breeding experience, and age. Primary molt was observed among breeders and nonbreeders during the incubation period. Nonbreeders renew more feathers than breeders. In breeding individuals, males and females renew the same number of feathers. No difference in primary molt score was found between inexperienced and experienced breeders. However, the extent of primary molt was significantly related to age among breeders; older birds had less new feathers than younger birds. These results suggest that primary molt-breeding overlap in Southern Fulmars is a consequence of high food availability during the short summer and a reallocation of energy into molt during incubation. Possible reasons for differences in molt extent owing to age and breeding status are discussed.
10.2307/1370471|The Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens) and the Western Gull (L. occidentalis occidentalis) hybridize along the Pacific Coast from Cape Flattery, Washington, south through central Oregon. A hybrid index, based on plumage and soft part colors, was used to study the distribution of morphotypes (e.g., pure and hybrid birds), mating patterns and reproductive performance at eight sympatric and two allopatric colonies. Mate choice appears to be weakly positive-assortative. In 1989 in the hybrid zone, L. o. occidentalis experienced significantly greater reproductive performance, measured as clutch size and egg volume difference, than either L. glaucescens or mixed pairs containing at least one hybrid individual. Although the hybrid zone has expanded somewhat in recent times, the midpoint of the zone and the relative proportion of morphotypes has remained stable. The hybrid zone is situated on a marine-ecotone. Within the hybrid zone, relative reproductive performance of L. o. occidentalis and hybrids may shift between years, whereas L. glaucescens may experience poor reproductive performance in all years. The selection-hybridization balance hypothesis may best explain the L. glaucescens-occidentalis hybrid zone.
10.2307/1370178|We examined the vocal and behavioral responses of free-living male Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) to playbacks of flight whistles (FWs) from local, near-foreign, and distant-foreign dialects. Full, partial, and reverse FWs were broadcast to solitary males. Test males responded with their own FWs and approached playbacks of FWs significantly more than playbacks of control heterospecific vocalizations. This suggests that all three dialects were recognized as conspecific. The strongest responses were elicited by playbacks of local FWs, and there was little behavioral evidence that males distinguished between the near-foreign and distant-foreign dialects. Males responded to playbacks of partial or complete local FWs primarily with the next or missing part of the FW. That is, they avoided matching the playback. The FW responses to playbacks of near-foreign and distant-foreign FWs were not consistent. Males presumably use matching-avoidance within a FW dialect to initiate social interactions with particular conspecific males.
10.2307/1369572|We determined the flocking propensity of 48 species of birds occurring in native pine forest in the Cordillera Central of the Dominican Republic, and the species composition of 180 mixed-species flocks. Flocks were unusually ubiquitous, with 46 species occurring in at least one flock, 11 species regularly present, and all insectivorous species and all migrant species participating. Most birds encountered were permanent residents, but winter residents (Nearctic migrants) were an important component of the flocks and, as a group, had the highest flocking propensity. Flocks were cohesive and the resident insectivore, the Black-crowned Palm Tanager (Phaenicophilus palmarum) often served as the nuclear species. Censuses suggest species richness within flocks reflects the species present in the habitat, but agonistic interactions indicate that intraspecific aggression may limit the number of individuals of a species in these flocks. Species co-occurrence data indicate that species do not occur independently of one another in flocks. Positive associations were far more common than negative co-occurrences, suggesting mutual habitat dependencies or species interactions within flocks. A non-random association of nearest neighbors also indicated that species may be gaining feeding benefits from flocking by associating as close neighbors with an individual of another species, but we were not able to rule out the possibility that predation is an important selective agent. Intraspecific comparisons of foraging behavior between flocking and solitary birds provides some evidence that individuals modify foraging locations and foraging tactics upon joining mixed-species flocks, and that their foraging behavior tends to converge with the feeding behavior of the nuclear species. An increase in the feeding rate was recorded for one species. These data suggest that at least some species may accrue feeding advantages as flock participants.
10.2307/1370266| We used small boats to survey Marbled, Brachyramphus marmoratus, and Kittlitz's Murrelets, B. brevirostris (Brachyramphus murrelets) in Lower Cook Inlet, Prince William Sound, and Southeast Alaska. We estimated ( 95% CI) that there were 58,227  16,058 (4.2 birds km<sup>-2</sup>) murrelets in Lower Cook Inlet in summer and 11,627  7,410 (3.1 birds km<sup>-2</sup>) murrelets in the eastern half during winter. We estimated a mean of 113,652  25,900 (12.7 birds km<sup>-2</sup>) murrelets in Prince William Sound in four summers and a mean of 24,979  11,710 (2.8 birds km<sup>-2</sup>) murrelets in four winters. An estimated 687,061  201,162 (19.4 birds km<sup>-2</sup>) murrelets were in Southeast Alaska in summer 1994. The summer population of all three areas was estimated to be between 655,482 and 1,062,398 murrelets. Winter abundance for the eastern portion of Lower Cook Inlet and Prince William Sound ranged from 22,646 to 50,164. Brachyramphus murrelets were distributed in low densities throughout each of the three study areas, although abundance was not uniform; there were areas of high densities within each study area. The largest densities were found in Southeast Alaska. 
3247749| Populations of the Bar-tailed Godwit (Limosa lapponica; Scolopacidae) embark on some of the longest migrations known among birds. The baueri race breeds in western Alaska and spends the nonbreeding season a hemisphere away in New Zealand and eastern Australia; the menzbieri race breeds in Siberia and migrates to western and northern Australia. Although the Siberian birds are known to follow the coast of Asia during both migrations, the southern pathway followed by the Alaska breeders has remained unknown. Two questions have particular ecological importance: (1) do Alaska godwits migrate directly across the Pacific, a distance of 11 000 km? and (2) are they capable of doing this in a single flight without stopping to rest or refuel? We explored six lines of evidence to answer these questions. The distribution of resightings of marked birds of the baueri and menzbieri races was significantly different between northward and southward flights with virtually no marked baueri resighted along the Asian mainland during southward migration. The timing of southward migration of the two races further indicates the absence of a coastal Asia route by baueri with peak passage of godwits in general occurring there a month prior to the departure of most birds from Alaska. The use of a direct route across the Pacific is also supported by significantly more records of godwits reported from within a direct migration corridor than elsewhere in Oceania, and during the September to November period than at other times of the year. The annual but rare occurrence of Hudsonian Godwits (L. haemastica) in New Zealand and the absence of their records along the Asian mainland also support a direct flight and are best explained by Hudsonian Godwits accompanying Bar-tailed Godwits from known communal staging areas in Alaska. Flight simulation models, extreme fat loads, and the apparent evolution of a wind-selected migration from Alaska further support a direct, nonstop flight. /// Las poblaciones de Limosa lapponica (Scolopacidae) se embarcan en una de las migraciones ms largas conocidas para aves. La raza baueri cra en el oeste de Alaska y pasa la estacin no reproductiva a un hemisferio de distancia en Nueva Zelanda y el este de Australia; la raza menzbieri cra en Siberia y migra hacia el oeste y el norte de Australia. Aunque se sabe que las aves de Siberia siguen la costa de Asia durante ambas migraciones, la ruta meridional que siguen las aves reproductivas de Alaska ha permanecido desconocida. Dos preguntas tienen particular importancia ecolgica: (1) las aves de Alaska migran directamente a travs de Pacfico, a lo largo de 11 000 km? y (2) son capaces de hacerlo en un nico vuelo sin parar a descansar y reabastecerse? Exploramos seis lneas de evidencia para responder a estas preguntas. La distribucin de avistamientos de aves marcadas de las razas baueri y menzbieri fue significativamente diferente entre vuelos hacia el norte y el sur, sin que hubiera prcticamente un solo avistamiento de individuos marcados de baueri a lo largo del continente asitico durante la migracin hacia el sur. El perodo de la migracin hacia el sur de ambas razas indica la ausencia de una ruta costera asitica para baueri, con un pico en el paso de las aves ocurriendo all un mes antes de la partida de la mayora de las aves desde Alaska. El uso de una ruta directa a travs del Pacfico tambin est avalado por un nmero significativamente mayor de aves reportadas para un corredor migratorio directo que para cualquier otro lugar de Oceana, y para el perodo entre septiembre y noviembre que para otros momentos del ao. La presencia anual, aunque rara, de L. haemastica en Nueva Zelanda y la ausencia de registros a lo largo del continente asitico tambin avalan la posibilidad de un vuelo directo y se explican mejor por el hecho de que L. haemastica acompaa a L. lapponica desde reas de escala comunes en Alaska. Evidencia complementaria de un vuelo directo sin escalas est dada por modelos de simulacin de vuelo, la gran acumulacin de grasa en las aves y la aparente evolucin de una migracin seleccionada por el viento. 
10.2307/1370207|We analyzed growth in length and width of bill in Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), Pekin (Anas platyrhynchos f. domestica) and Muscovy (Cairina moschata f. domestica) Ducks with growth curve analysis. Bill growth is characterized by a relatively high proportion of growth realized prehatching and early posthatching points of inflection. Individual variability of bill measurements limits its value for estimating age. Bill width is already further developed at hatching than length, a difference that is maintained throughout the posthatching period. Consequently, bill width has a lower allometric exponent than length. This delay in development of length vs. width probably reflects overall development of the skull. Skull development is in turn closely related to brain growth, thus bill dimensions correlated with brain mass with coefficients of determination of ca. 0.9.
1369844| Peterson (2001) used Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP) models to predict distribution patterns from Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) data. Evaluations of these models should consider inherent limitations of BBS data: (1) BBS methods may not sample species and habitats equally; (2) using BBS data for both model development and testing may overlook poor fit of some models; and (3) BBS data may not provide the desired spatial resolution or capture temporal changes in species distributions. The predictive value of GARP models requires additional study, especially comparisons with distribution patterns from independent data sets. When employed at appropriate temporal and geographic scales, GARP models show considerable promise for conservation biology applications but provide limited inferences concerning processes responsible for the observed patterns. /// Peterson (2001) us Modelos de Algoritmos Genticos para la Prediccin de Reglas (GARP) para predecir los patrones de distribucin de los datos del Censo de Aves Nidificantes (BBS). Las evaluaciones de estos modelos deberan considerar las limitaciones propias de los datos del BBS: (1) los mtodos del BBS pueden meustrear especies y hbitats de modo diferente; (2) usar los datos del BBS tanto para desarrollar los modelos como para probarlos puede evadir el pobre desempeo de algunos modelos; y (3) los datos del BBS pueden no proveer la resolucin espacial deseada y capturar los cambios temporales en la distribucin de especies. El valor predictivo de los modelos GARP requiere estudios adicionales, especialmente comparaciones con patrones de distribucin obtenidos de bases de datos independientes. Cuando los modelos GARP son empleados a las escalas temporales y geogrficas apropiadas muestran aplicaciones promisorias para biologa de la conservacin, pero proveen inferencias limiadas sobre los procesos responsables de los patrones obervados. 
40306198|The use of hydrogen isotopes to delineate origins of migratory birds relies on predictable relationships between levels of deuterium (D) in tissue and those predicted from long-term precipitation (D
10.2307/1370480|Many species of Nearctic landbirds exhibit behavioral plasticity during migration, presumably to compensate for energetic demands of migratory flight. At Block Island, Rhode Island, a northern temperate site, I quantified the extent of one form of behavioral plasticity in Nearctic landbirds: dietary expansion from breeding season insectivory to high levels of frugivory during autumn. I also measured changes in energetic condition of migrants using recapture methods and diurnal regressions of mass change. Based on analyses of 1,568 fecal samples collected from 1993-1995, frugivory during migration was frequent within many species, extensive within individual birds, and widespread among taxa. Migratory species ranged from strict insectivory in the Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes) to 96% fruit by volume in the fecal samples of Rose-breasted Grosbeaks (Pheucticus ludovicianus). Nine of 17 recaptured species demonstrated mass gains between first and last recapture. Only the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus) gained significant mass within a single day, suggesting that the site was suitable for migratory mass gain if a species remained longer than one day. Highly omnivorous species, with greater than one-third of the diet as fruit, gained significantly more mass while on Block Island than did strict insectivores, i.e., species with less than one-third of the diet as fruit. Insectivorous species on average declined in energetic condition during stopover. The extent of frugivory for a species was positively correlated with average change in energetic condition and fat score per day, suggesting that frugivory allowed species to gain mass more efficiently and extensively than exclusive insectivory. I conclude that frugivory in Nearctic landbirds is far more extensive during migration than previously thought, and that dietary plasticity may be an adaptation to energetic demands of migratory flights.
10.2307/1367476|Biases associated with the ligature technique of sampling food from nestlings were quantified for the Gray Catbird and Brown Thrasher. Food samples collected after a one-hour interval did not accurately represent the diet because nestlings with ligatures gaped less intensely, gasped when trying to gape, and disgorged food from their throats. Food samples collected from ligatured nestlings after one-hour intervals were compared with samples obtained after each feeding trip and with observations of nestlings without ligatures. Biases in the former method were demonstrated by three different analyses: average volume of food delivered/nestling/h, size of individual food items, and number of nestlings fed/h. Ligatures did not seem to affect appreciably diet composition.
1370585| We studied within-season mate switching in House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) from 1998 to 2000. Males initiated mate switching, but mate switching was not related to the male's paternity in the first brood, his body condition, or his breeding experience. Males were more likely to switch mates when unmated females were nearby. Males that switched mates sired a similar number of young as males that stayed with the same mate, and, thus, males did not appear to benefit directly from switching mates. In contrast, half of the females that were deserted did not find a second mate during the breeding season, and, thus, incurred a reproductive cost. /// Estudiamos el cambio de pareja dentro de una misma estacin reproductiva en Troglodytes aedon entre 1998 y 2000. Los machos iniciaron el cambio de pareja, pero este cambio no estuvo relacionado con la paternidad del macho en la primera nidada, ni con su condicin corporal, ni con su experiencia de cra previa. Los machos presentaron una mayor probabilidad de cambiar de pareja cuando se encontraban hembras no apareadas en las cercanas. Los machos que cambiaron de pareja engendraron un nmero similar de cras al de los machos que permanecieron con la misma pareja, por lo que los machos no parecieron beneficiarse directamente con el cambio de pareja. En contraste, la mitad de las hembras que fueron abandonadas no encontraron una segunda pareja durante el periodo reproductivo, y por lo tanto incurrieron en un costo reproductivo. 
1370535| Howell et al. (2003) argue that the Humphrey-Parkes (H-P) system of molt terminology is flawed because it requires using traditional first prebasic molt as the starting point for plumage succession that results in noncorrespondence between nomenclature and presumed homology in first basic plumages. However, the H-P system does not require this. Second, they argue that plumage color can be a misleading criterion for evaluating plumage homologies. I show, however, that the timing and extent of molts, and thus their homologies, can de documented more accurately by using plumage color than by not doing so. Howell et al. (2003) propose a revised H-P system. To follow their system, one must accept their notion that no first-cycle molts are homologous with prebasic molts in subsequent molt cycles. However, this is not so as many species have a molt in their first cycle that is homologous to definitive prebasic molt. In addition, Howell et al.'s (2003) system does not offer any new or better criteria for identifying homologies than those suggested by Humphrey and Parkes (1959) and, thus, is not an improvement on the H-P system. First-cycle molts and plumages of most birds are poorly known. Therefore, we will not have sufficient data to determine whether new molts have been evolutionarily added to the first cycle, as suggested by Howell et al. (2003), until the molts of many more species of birds are studied. Further, these studies must be done on closely related species, not phylogenetically distant ones as proposed by Howell et al. (2003). /// Howell et al. (2003) aducen que el sistema Humphrey-Parkes (H-P) de terminologa para la muda es errneo porque requiere utilizar la primera muda prebsica como el punto de partida para la sucesin del plumaje, lo que resulta en falta de correspondencia entre la nomenclatura y las presuntas homologas en los primeros plumajes bsicos. Sin embargo, el sistema H-P no requiere esto. Segundo, ellos argumentan que el color de plumaje puede ser un criterio engaoso para evaluar las homologas del plumaje, pero yo demuestro que el momento y la extensin de las mudas, y por tanto sus homologas, pueden documentarse con mayor exactitud utilizando el color del plumaje que no hacindolo. Howell et al. (2003) proponen un sistema H-P revisado que implica aceptar su nocin de que ninguna de las mudas del primer ciclo es homloga con mudas prebsicas de ciclos de muda subsiguientes. Sin embargo, esto no es as, pues muchas especies tienen una muda en su primer ciclo que es homloga a la muda prebsica definitiva. Adicionalmente, el sistema de Howell et al. (2003) no ofrece criterios nuevos o mejores para identificar las homologas que aquellos sugeridos por Humphrey and Parkes (1959), por lo que no representa un mejoramiento del sistema H-P. Las mudas y los plumajes del primer ciclo de la mayora de las aves son poco conocidos. Por lo tanto, hasta que no se estudie la muda en muchas ms especies de aves, no tendremos suficientes datos para determinar si nuevas mudas se han adicionado evolutivamente al primer ciclo como Howell et al. (2003) sugirieron. Ms an, dichos estudios deben hacerse en especies estrechamente relacionadas, no en aquellas filogenticamente distantes como Howell et al. (2003) propusieron. 
10.2307/1370142|The nutrient limitation hypothesis postulates that variation in nutrient reserves during egg laying and incubation are important predictors of future reproductive success of female waterfowl. We tested one component of this hypothesis in two European diving ducks, Common Pochard (Aythya ferina) and Tufted Duck (Aythya fuligula), relating body masses of incubating females to subsequent nest success, and to duckling and adult survival. We based our analyses on 3,224 Common Pochards and 1,812 Tufted Ducks captured and weighed during the last two weeks before ducklings hatched at Engure Marsh, Latvia, in 1978-1993. Adult (ASY) females from successful nests weighed significantly more than those from abandoned nests, but differences in body masses between two categories of nest fates were negligible for yearlings (SY). For both species, survival (measured as apparent return rate) of females (SY + ASY) was unrelated to their body masses. Duckling recruitment was independent of adult female body mass for both species, but yearling Common Pochards that provided recruits weighed more than those that produced none. Results of our study support the nutrient limitation hypothesis and we conclude that nutrient reserve levels may be important determinants of nest success in female ducks in general, especially for species that rely heavily on endogenous reserves during incubation.
1370731| Among hypotheses explaining nest-site selection, the potential-prey-site hypothesis predicts that birds place nests in areas with many potential nest sites, while the nest-concealment hypothesis predicts nest placement in sites with greater surrounding vegetation. We examined these hypotheses by comparing habitat attributes between Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri) nest sites and random sites, successful and unsuccessful nests, and nests depredated by birds versus mammals. Nesting success was 28% (n = 167), and predation was the most important cause of nest failure (96%) during the study (1998-2000) at our site in northeastern California. We identified 28 nest predators using surveillance cameras. Sciurid mammals were the most common predators (17 of 28, 61%), with Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii; 25%), small owls (11%), and Steller's Jays (Cyanocitta stelleri; 3%) accounting for the rest. Raptors preyed on nestlings more frequently than on eggs, while small mammals depredated nestlings and eggs in proportion to their availability. Dusky Flycatchers nested in larger shrub patches with greater shrub cover than at random sites, supporting the potential-prey-site hypothesis. Successful nests were in larger shrub patches surrounded by fewer seedlings and saplings compared to depredated nests, providing equivocal support for the potential-prey-site hypothesis. Nests depredated by birds were less concealed, located in smaller shrub patches, surrounded by fewer seedlings and saplings, and were closer to the shrub edge than nests depredated by mammals. Our results, strengthened by identification of nest predators, suggest that differences in search strategies among predators may constrain the ability of Dusky Flycatchers to optimize nest-site selection. /// Entre las hiptesis que explican la seleccin de sitios de anidacin, la de "presa potencial" predice que las aves ubican sus nidos en lugares con muchos sitios de anidacin, mientras que la de "ocultacin del nido" predice la ubicacin de nidos en sitios con mayor vegetacin circundante. Nosotros examinamos estas hiptesis comparando caractersticas del hbitat entre sitios de anidacin del mosquerito Empidonax oberholseri y sitios aleatorios, entre nidos exitosos y no exitosos, y entre nidos depredados por aves y por mamferos. Entre 1998 y 2000 en un rea del noreste de California, el xito de anidacin fue del 28% (n = 167) y la depredacin fue la causa ms importante del fracaso de los nidos (96%). Identificamos 28 depredadores de nidos utilizando cmaras. Los mamferos sciridos fueron los depredadores ms comunes (17 de 28, 61%), mientras que los dems nidos fueron depredados por Accipter cooperii (25%), bhos pequeos (11%) y Cyanocitta stelleri (3%). Las aves rapaces se alimentaron con mayor frecuencia de pichones que de huevos, mientras que los mamferos pequeos depredaron pichones y huevos en proporcin a su disponibilidad. Los mosqueritos anidaron en parches con mayor cobertura de arbustos que sitios aleatorios, lo cual apoya la hiptesis de presa potencial. Los nidos exitosos se ubicaron en parches de arbustos ms grandes rodeados por menos plntulas y renovales en comparacin con los nidos depredados, lo que apoya equvocamente la hiptesis de presa potencial. Los nidos depredados por aves estuvieron menos ocultos, ubicados en parches de arbustos ms pequeos, rodeados por menos plntulas y renovales, y estuvieron ms cerca del borde del matorral que los nidos depredados por mamferos. Nuestros resultados, fortalecidos por la identificacin de los depredadores, sugieren que las diferencias en las estrategias de bsqueda entre depredadores pueden limitar la habilidad de los mosqueritos para optimizar la seleccin de sitios de anidacin. 
1369826| The central-periphery distribution model of nest dispersion suggests that nests located in the center of a colony are less accessible to predators and that birds breeding in the central area are of better physical quality and have greater reproductive success. Another hypothesis, the central-satellite distribution model, suggests that low-quality birds build their nests near those of high-quality pairs, which do not necessarily settle in the colony's center. Advantages of this type of association include increasing the opportunity for extra-pair copulation by low-quality females and increasing the potential for low-quality individuals to obtain a better breeding site or partner in the following season. Here we test these hypotheses on two colonies (Portelo and Faro) of the European Shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) on the Ces Islands, Galicia, northwest Spain. Spatial distribution of pairs differing in quality was analyzed using residuals of reproductive success, eliminating the effect of physical quality of the nest site. A negative autocorrelation of these residuals between nests at short distances was detected for the Portelo colony. In Faro there was no evidence that nest distribution differed from a random distribution. Occupation of nest sites (measured as new nest or reoccupied nest) showed negative autocorrelation at short distances, implying that there was an association between new and reoccupied sites. These results demonstrate that nest distribution of European Shag colonies does not fit the central-periphery model, but rather corresponds to either the central-satellite model or to a random distribution. /// La distribucin de los nidos en aves coloniales puede ser explicada por dos modelos. El modelo centro-periferia implica que las aves que cran en el centro de una colonia son menos accesibles a los depredadores, poseen una mejor condicin y tienen un mayor xito reproductivo. En cambio, el modelo centro-satlite sugiere que aves de baja calidad construyen sus nidos cerca de parejas de alta calidad para obtener ventajas como un mayor nmero de cpulas extrapareja por parte de hembras de baja calidad o un mejor sitio de cra o pareja en la siguiente estacin de cra. En el presente estudio, nosotros contrastamos estos modelos con la distribucin de la calidad de las parejas de Phalacrocorax aristotelis en dos colonias (Portelo y Faro) de las Islas Ces situadas en Galicia, noroeste de Espaa. Hemos utilizado como indicador de la calidad de la pareja los residuales del xito reproductor, eliminando el efecto de la calidad del sitio de nido. En la colonia del Portelo se observ una correlacin negativa entre la calidad de las parejas a una distancia menor de 4 m; en el Faro, en cambio, no hubo evidencias de una distribucin diferente al azar. Adems, se encontr una correlacin espacial negativa entre los sitios de nido en los que se construy un nido por primera vez y los sitios que fueron reocupados. En global, estos resultados muestran que la distribucin de las colonias del P. aristotelis no corresponde al modelo centro-periferia, sino ms bien al modelo centro-satlite o en todo caso, a una distribucin al azar. 
10.2307/1369177|During each breeding season between 1988 and 1992, nests and daytime roosts were located for most territorial members of a contiguous population of Northern Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) in northwestern California. Using Landsat imagery, we compared the amount of five land cover types, mature and old-growth forest fragmentation, and seral stage heterogeneity within 800 m (200 ha) circular plots around nest, roost, and random sites. This plot size was based on the observed spatial distribution of owl sites (one-half the average nearest-neighbor distance between territory centers) within the study area. Nest and roost sites were characterized by lower amounts of nonvegetated and herbaceous land cover, and greater amounts of mature and old-growth coniferous forest which was less fragmented than random sites. Mean amounts of mature and old-growth forest within 200 ha radius plots were 94.1 ha, 92.0 ha, and 71.8 for nest, roost, and random sites, respectively. The area of other land cover types was similar between owl and random sites. All habitat variables were similar at nest and roost sites. To evaluate the influence of spatial scale, habitat variables around nest and random sites also were estimated within eight concentric circular plots ranging from 800 to 3,600 m radii. Differences between nest and random sites in the amount and fragmentation of mature and old-growth forest were significant (P < 0.01) out to 1,200 m. Differences in the amount of nonvegetated and herbaceous, and seral stage heterogeneity were significant (P < 0.05) out to 1,200 m and 800 m, respectively. These results indicate that spatial scale of sampling is important and will affect analytical results. Our findings from the Klamath Physiographic Province of California were similar to results from comparable studies in Oregon and Washington.
10.1525/cond.2013.120194|California oak savanna is a habitat of sparse tree canopy that extends from northern Baja California to southern British Columbia and is under threat from land-use pressures such as conversion to agriculture, overgrazing, urban development, and fire suppression. Bird-conservation plans have been drafted for the region's oak woodlands. Yet it is unclear whether birds use California oak savanna at different frequencies than they do neighboring oak habitats. In the foothills of the central and northern Sierra Nevada, California, we explored patterns of avian community structure and habitat occupancy in four habitats: blue oak (
4151024| We assessed dietary preference of 14 captive Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristatd) for different food types under different conditions of availability. In four separate feeding trials, we provisioned jays with the following: Trial 1, two nuts each of white oak (Quercus alba), pin oak (Q. palustris), black oak (Q. velutina), northern red oak (Q. rubra), and shagbark hickory (Carya ovata); Trial 2, two small and two large red oak acorns; Trial 3, two germinating and two nongerminating white oak acorns; and Trial 4, one large red oak acorn, one large white oak acorn, and one shagbark hickory nut. We used discrete choice models to describe selection under conditions of changing choice sets. Blue Jays displayed a clear preference for pin oak and strong avoidance of red oak acorns when alternative foods were available. White oak and black oak acorns were selected intermediately. Shagbark hickory nuts were never used. Correlation coefficients suggested that preference was inversely related to seed size and the proportion of seed consisting of hard seed coat. In the absence of alternative food items, small red oak acorns were readily taken, whereas large red oak acorns were mostly avoided but still used by some birds. These results highlight the importance of considering food availability when making conclusions about preference, and lend support to the hypothesis that Blue Jays can be important dispersers of even less-preferred oak species. We discuss the potential as well as the limitations for Blue Jays to act as seed dispersers, with respect to postglacial range expansion of fagaceous tree species, and in the context of present-day dispersal in regions where forests are highly fragmented. /// Determinamos las preferencias de dieta en condiciones de cautiverio para 14 individuos de la especie Cyanocitta cristata para cuatro tipos de alimento bajo diferentes condiciones de disponibilidad. En cuatro pruebas de alimentacin, ofrecimos a las ayes las siguientes combinaciones: Prueba 1, dos bellotas de Quercus alba, Q. palustris, Q. velutina, Q. rubra y Carya ovata; Prueba 2, dos bellotas grandes y dos pequeas de Q. rubra; Prueba 3, dos bellotas germinadas y dos no germinadas de Q. alba y Prueba 4, una bellota grande de Q. rubra, una bellota grande de Q. alba y una bellota de C. ovata. Utilizamos modelos discretos de eleccin para describir la seleccin bajo condiciones cambiantes de los grupos de alimento ofrecidos. Las ayes mostraron una clara preferencia por bellotas de Q. palustris y un fuerte rechazo por bellotas de Q. rubra cuando exista disponibilidad de alimentos alternativos. Las bellotas de Q. alba y Q. velutina fueron seleccionadas de manera intemedia. Las bellotas de C. ovata nunca fueron utilizadas. Los coeficientes de correlacin sugirieron que la preferencia est inversamente correlacionada con el tamaiio de la semilla y con la proporcin de la semilla que representa su cubierta dura. En la ausencia de Items alimenticios alternativos, las bellotas de Q. rubra de pequeo tamao fueron ingeridas frecuentemente, mientras que las semillas de Q. rubra de gran tamao fueron evitadas en la mayoria de los casos, aunque fueron utilizadas por algunos individuos. Estos resultados resaltan la importancia de considerar la disponibilidad de alimento al sacar conclusiones sobre las preferencias alimenticias, y apoyan la hiptesis de que C. cristata puede ser un dispersor importante incluso de las especies de Quercus menos preferidas. Discutimos el potencial y las limitaciones que C. cristata puede presentar como dispersor de semillas con relacin a la expansion postglacial de las especies de rboles fagceas y en el contexto de la dispersion actual en regiones en que el bosque se encuentra altamente fragmentado. 
10.2307/1369358| The purpose of this study was to examine Lack's (1947, 1954) brood-reduction hypothesis concerning hatching asynchrony, and its importance in explaining the evolution of hatching asynchrony in Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia). The study was conducted during the summers of 1988-1990 on a population of Yellow Warblers breeding in the dune-ridge forest at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, Canada (5811N, 9819W). I examined the brood-reduction hypothesis experimentally by inducing a sample of females to delay incubation until clutch completion. This was achieved by removing eggs as they were laid, and placing them in a cooler at 20C until clutch completion. As a result, eggs in each manipulated clutch hatched synchronously (hatch spread between first- and last-hatched nestling 24 hr). Subsequently, I compared the fledging mass and survival rate of nestlings in asynchronously (unmanipulated broods, hatch spread >24 hr) and synchronously (manipulated) hatching broods. Consistent with the hypothesis, nestling mortality was concentrated in last-hatched nestlings in asynchronous broods and random with respect to hatch order in synchronous broods. Also in agreement with the hypothesis, fledging mass and survival rates of first-hatched chicks were generally higher in asynchronous broods. However, contrary to the hypothesis, fledging mass and survival rates were similar for last-hatched chicks in asynchronous and synchronous broods. Also consistent with the hypothesis, fledging success (no. fledged/clutch) in broods of five tended to be higher in asynchronously hatched broods, regardless of food availability. Finally, fledging rate (no. fledged/no. hatched) was significantly greater in asynchronous broods (four and five nestlings combined) when compared to synchronous broods, especially when food was limiting. 
10.2307/1370264|Surveys of California's Central Valley between 1992-1995 document it as one of the most important regions in western North America to migratory and wintering shorebirds. Populations averaged 134,000 individuals in August, 211,000 in November, 303,000 in January, and 335,000 in April. Of 33 species, the 10 or 11 that averaged over 1,000 individuals each season accounted for 99% of total numbers. Managed wetlands, agricultural fields (especially rice), and agricultural evaporation ponds held the most shorebirds. Species varied their seasonal, geographic, and habitat use of the Central Valley, primarily in response to changes in water availability from rainfall or management practices and latitudinal variation in habitat availability mediated, in part, by climate. In the record rainfall year of 1994-1995, shorebird numbers increased 74% between November and January, primarily from coast-to-interior movements of the Dunlin (Calidris alpina) and Long-billed Dowitcher (Limnodromus scolopaceus) and local habitat shifts of Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus). Although the Valley's shorebirds face threats from poor or toxic water quality, changing agricultural practices, and habitat loss to urbanization, they should benefit from current efforts to increase flooding of rice fields and to secure a stable high quality water supply for wetlands. Development of a sound conservation strategy is crucial for the preservation of shorebird populations in the Central Valley, as this agriculturally-dominated landscape is among the most altered in North America and remains vulnerable to strong economic and population growth pressures that may impact shorebird habitats in the future.
10.2307/1369720|Rates of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds Molothrus ater on nests of Brown Thrashers Toxostoma rufum in south-central North Dakota ranged from 3% to 18% from 1984-1986. The average observed rate of parasitism, 12%, was higher than typically reported for Brown Thrashers. We conducted an experiment to determine if these high observed rates of parasitism were a result of unusually high rates of parasitism by cowbirds or unusually low rates of rejection by thrashers. Brown Thrashers removed 58% of experimentally-placed cowbird eggs. This rate of rejection is significantly lower than that previously reported for Brown Thrashers and for other rejector species. We conclude that thrashers in this area are parasitized at a high rate, but that low rates of rejection are at least partially responsible for the high observed rate of parasitism. These results suggest that the classification of Brown Thrashers as a rejector species should be reevaluated and that further study of geographic variation in cowbird host behavior and the role of learning in egg recognition is warranted.
10.2307/1368248|Fat scoring is a widely used nondestructive method of assessing total body fat in birds. This method has not been rigorously investigated. We investigated inter- and intraobserver variability in scoring as well as the predictive ability of fat scoring using five species of passerines. Between-observer variation in scoring was variable and great at times. Observers did not consistently score species higher or lower relative to other observers nor did they always score birds with more total body fat higher. We found that within-observer variation was acceptable but was dependent on the species being scored. The precision of fat scoring was species-specific and for most species, fat scores accounted for less than 50% of the variation in true total body fat. Overall, we would describe fat scoring as a fairly precise method of indexing total body fat but with limited reliability among observers.
10.2307/1370137|Birds nesting near House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) risk having their eggs, nestlings, and nests destroyed. Damage by wrens may be reduced in Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus), Tufted Titmice (P. bicolor), and other parids by concealing eggs under nest material during the laying period, and in sympatric cavity-nesting species by nesting in different habitats from wrens. To test if eggs were protected by covering, prelaying wrens were challenged for 1 day with a set of two boxes placed 1 m from their nest, one with two artificial eggs (miniature marshmallows) lightly covered under fur, the other with two artificial eggs in an open cup. Results varied with stage of nest-building; in 41 trials where both exposed eggs were removed, covered eggs remained in only 4 of 15 (27%) trials near early nests containing few sticks, but in 17 of 26 (65%) trials near more advanced nests. To assess effects of nest site, a box with a cup nest was placed in each of three habitats 10 or 20 m from 29 wren nests. After 1 day of habituation, two artificial eggs were placed in each nest and left exposed for 1 day. Boxes in woodland interiors were less likely than boxes in fields and along edges to be visited by wrens at least once over 2 days (66 vs. 97% visited) and were less likely to have eggs removed (10 vs. 83% removed). Competitors for nesting cavities also may escape attacks by wrens through differences in breeding period, active defense of territories or nests, or renesting.
10.2307/1369114|We studied patterns of mate guarding and paternity in 21 pairs of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) nesting in central Kentucky. DNA fingerprinting revealed that five of 37 nestlings (13.5%) resulted from extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs). Of 19 broods sampled, three (16%) had at least one extra-pair young. Although our observations of male cardinals making extra-territorial movements suggest that some males in the population may actively pursue EPFs, the percentage of extra-pair young in our study was lower than reported for many other passerines. Three non-exclusive factors may have contributed to this low percentage. 1. Male cardinals may gain more from parental efforts than from pursuing extra-pair copulations (EPCs). 2. Females in resident species such as Northern Cardinals probably have more opportunities to assess the quality of prospective mates prior to pairing than do females in migratory species and so EPCs may be less likely to be beneficial to females. 3. Most male cardinals exhibited mate guarding behavior. Males maintained contact with fertile mates 72.8% of the time during initial nesting attempts and, in addition, males followed females more often than females followed males in nine of 10 pairs.
10.2307/1370001|Low levels of human intrusion have become ubiquitous, yet the distance at which they affect bird distributions remains unclear. By testing for changes in bird abundance, we assessed whether low levels of intrusion altered bird distributions within and beyond intruded sites. In Wyoming subalpine forests, we experimentally implemented intrusions within circular 1.0-ha (113-m diameter) sites for 1-2 hr (Snowy Mountains, 1989-1993) or for 5 hr (Pole Mountain, 1991-1993) each week during 10 consecutive weeks of the breeding season. The intrusions did not displace birds during most years, with the following exceptions. Mean abundances for Mountain Chickadee (Parus gambeli) in the Snowy Mountains (1992) and at Pole Mountain (1993), and mean abundances for American Robin (Turdus migratorius) and Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus) in the Snowy Mountains (1989), were 46-57% lower within intruded sites than they were within control sites. Intrusion did not influence abundances outside of the 1.0-ha intruded sites. Minimum detectable effect sizes (R<sup>2</sup>s for the intrusion effect) were 18-32%; effects of this magnitude and larger were detectable with a probability of 0.80. We would therefore have readily detected moderate and large abundance changes had they occurred. The spatial extent of intrusion effects on distributions was thus limited to the actual sites of intrusion, and the effects occurred infrequently. Knowledge about the distance at which low levels of intrusion do and do not alter bird distributions is essential for protecting intrusion-sensitive species and avoiding unnecessary restrictions on landscape use by the public.
4122514| Optimal foraging theory predicts that birds, when faced with alternative foraging options, will choose the one that provides the greatest rate of return. We tested if wild, free-living Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) could solve a novel foraging problem to attain food rewards with the least amount of effort. We introduced five subjects to experimental feeders in their winter territories in an urban habitat. Feeders contained different numbers of bamboo sticks at each of two ends. Birds could access a food reward (Tenebrio larvae) by removing all sticks from either end; therefore, the optimal choice was to remove sticks from the end with fewer sticks. Each subject was tested in repeated trials to determine if it preferentially chose the end with fewer sticks. All five birds successfully discriminated between one stick and six sticks as well as between two sticks and five sticks. However, all five birds failed to discriminate between three sticks and four sticks. Wild Northern Mockingbirds thus appear to have a limited capacity to solve novel foraging problems by minimizing the number of obstacles to be removed. /// La teora del forrajeo ptimo propone que cuando las aves enfrentan opciones alternativas de forrajeo, eligen la que provee la mayor tasa de retorno. Examinamos algunos individuos silvestres de la especie Mimus polyglottos para ver si podran resolver un problema nuevo de forrajeo para obtener recompensas alimenticias con el menor esfuerzo. Introducimos comederos experimentales en los territorios invernales de cinco sujetos en un hbitat urbano. Los comederos tuvieron diferentes nmeros de palitos de bamb en cada uno de sus dos extremos. Las aves podan acceder a la recompensa de comida (larvas de Tenebrio) removiendo todos los palitos de uno de los extremos, por lo que el mtodo ptimo de forrajeo consista en remover los palitos del extremo con menos palitos. Cada sujeto fue examinado en pruebas repetidas para ver si prefera el extremo con menos palitos. Cada una de las cinco aves discriminaron con xito entre un palito y seis palitos y entre dos y cinco palitos. Sin embargo, ninguna discrimin con xito entre tres y cuatro palitos. Por lo tanto, los individuos silvestres de Mimus polyglottos parecen tener una capacidad limitada de resolver problemas nuevos de forrajeo minimizando el nmero de obstculos que deben remover. 
1369672| We compared mitochondrial DNA sequences for six species distributed across the aridlands of North America to document phylogeographic patterns and assess levels of congruence. The Curve-billed Thrasher (Toxostoma curvirostre) and Canyon Towhee (Pipilo fuscus) show genetic divisions between the Sonoran and Chihuahuan Deserts, whereas the Cactus Wren (Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus), Black-tailed Gnatcatcher (Polioptila melanura), and Verdin (Auriparus flaviceps) do not. Most likely, species without phylogeographic structure only recently colonized their entire current range. Therefore, although these species are today part of a wide-spread avifauna, species' distributions were historically different from today. In Baja California, the Cactus Wren and the Verdin show phylogeographic breaks at 28-30N, consistent with a division previously described in the LeConte's Thrasher (Toxostoma lecontei) and in some members of the herpetofauna. These genetic divisions were likely caused by isolation resulting from a mid-peninsular seaway that existed one million years ago. Hence, these species appear to have been broadly sympatric for at least one million years. In contrast, the California Gnatcatcher (Polioptila californica) lacks such a phylogeographic division, and apparently only recently expanded into the northern part of its current range. Thus, not all species in Baja California have had similar histories, although further sampling might reveal a general pattern. Comparative phylogeography therefore provides an indirect method of evaluating the long-term stability of faunas via assessment of levels of phylogeographic congruence, and can show whether particular species are likely to have had a long period of co-association. /// Comparamos secuencias de ADN mitocondrial de seis especies distribuidas a travs de las zonas ridas de Norteamrica para documentar los patrones filogeogrficos y valorar los niveles de congruencia. El cuitlacoche piquicurvo (Toxostoma curvirostre) y el rascador arroyero (Pipilo fuscus) muestran divisiones genticas entre los desiertos de Sonora y Chihuahua, mientras que la matraca desrtica (Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus), la perlita colinegra (Polioptila melanura) y el baloncillo (Auriparus flaviceps) no lo hacen. Probablemente, las especies sin estructura filogeogrfica han colonizado recientemente su actual rea de distribucin. Por lo tanto, aunque estas especies actualmente forman parte de una avifauna muy ampliamente distribuida, su distribucin fue histricamente diferente a la actual. En Baja California, la matraca desrtica y el baloncillo muestran interrupciones filogeogrficas a los 28-30N, consistente con la divisin previa descrita en el cuitlacoche plido (Toxostoma lecontei) y algunos miembros de la herpetofauna. Estas divisiones genticas fueron aparentemente causadas por el aislamiento resultado de un brazo marino que existi hace un milln de aos en la parte media de la Pennsula. De ah que estas especies parecen haber sido simptricas por al menos un milln de aos. En contraste, la perlita californiana (Polioptila californica) carece de tal divisin filogeogrfica, y aparentemente slo recientemente se ha expandido hacia la parte norte de su distribucin actual. De esta manera, no todas las especies en Baja California han tenido historias similares, aunque futuros muestreos podran revelar un patrn general. La filogeografa comparada, por lo tanto, provee un mtodo indirecto de evaluacin de la estabilidad prolongada de faunas a travs de la valoracin de los niveles de congruencia filogeogrfica y puede mostrar que especies en particular pudieran haber tenido un largo periodo de co-asociacin. 
10.2307/1368957|About 15% of Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) breeding on the Semidi Islands in 1979 had light-phase plumage; the remainder were dark. Fulmars of different plumage types mated indiscriminantly, but the lighter member of a mixed pair was more likely to be male than female. Pairs that included at least one light-phase member had lower breeding success than dark/dark pairs in one of six years. Constancy of breeding site use differed between light/dark and dark/dark pairs, suggesting dark birds skipped more breeding attempts or had lower over-winter survival than light birds. The apparent effect of breeding experience (assessed by site fidelity) on success also differed between pair types. The polymorphism on the Semidi Islands may result from light-phase fulmars immigrating from the Bering Sea, but there is also evidence to suggest it is maintained by balancing selection in a closed population.
10.2307/1367395|This review examines the various interpretations of courtship feeding (away from the nest, and not necessarily associated with copulation). Courtship feeding undoubtedly functions to maintain the pair-bond in many species, and also increases a female's fitness by providing her with extra food. This behavior is also claimed to express a male's dominance over a female, the female's so-called "begging" display being termed submissive. I present evidence that courtship feeding is, in fact, strongly correlated with female dominance over the male. Since begging fledglings can commonly supplant their parents, it may be more appropriate to call begging displays "demand behavior." Various elements of demand behavior in other contexts can serve both in appeasement and in threat displays. The common factor in each is that the displaying birds' strong tendency to attack is inhibited by other drives such as hunger, sex or fear. Besides pair-bond maintenance, energy provision, and possibly expression of female dominance, courtship feeding can also serve to increase a male's fitness by being his most direct way of contributing to the quality of his own eggs.
40072463|We hypothesized that the foraging behavior of urban birds would be less sensitive to variation in the cost of predation than that of nonurban bird species. We predicted that food-patch utilization by House Sparrows (
4122528| In environments such as arctic tundra, where bird densities are low and habitats are comparatively homogeneous, suitable nest sites likely are not limited. Under these conditions, reproductive success of birds may be determined by factors other than the habitat characteristics of nest sites. We studied the relative influence of nest habitat, food, nest distribution, and parental behavior on the reproductive success of tundra-breeding shorebirds at East Bay, Southampton Island, Nunavut, Canada. From 2000 to 2002, we monitored the nests of five species: Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola), Semipalmated Plover (Charadrius semipalmatus), Ruddy Turnstone (Arenaria interpres), White-rumped Sandpiper (Calidris fuscicollis), and Red Phalarope (Phalaropus fulicarius). For each species, habitat differed between nest sites and random sites. In contrast, habitat differed between successful and failed nest sites only for White-rumped Sandpipers. Shorebirds did not prefer to nest in habitats where food was most abundant. Although nest success varied among species in all years, artificial nest experiments suggested that interspecific variation in predation rate was not related to habitat type. Instead, the marked interspecific variation in nest success may have been related to incubation behavior. Species taking fewer incubation recesses had higher nest success, although these results should be viewed as preliminary. The factor with the greatest interannual influence on nest success was fluctuating predation pressure, apparently related to the abundance of predators and lemmings. /// En ambientes como la tundra rtica, donde las densidades aves son bajas y los hbitats son comparativamente homogneos, los sitios de nidificacin adecuados probablemente no son limitados. Bajo esas condiciones, el xito reproductivo de las aves podra estar determinado por factores distintos a las caractersticas del hbitat en donde se ubican los nidos. Estudiamos la influencia relativa del hbitat de nidificacin, el alimento, la distribucin de los nidos y el comportamiento parental sobre el xito reproductivo de las aves playeras que cran en la tundra en East Bay, Southampton Island, Nunavut, Canad. Entre 2000 y 2002, monitoreamos los nidos de cinco especies: Pluvialis squatarola, Charadrius semipalmatus, Arenaria interpres, Calidris fuscicollis y Phalaropus fulicarius. Para cada especie, el hbitat difiri entre los sitios de nidificacin y sitios ubicados al azar. En contraste, el hbitat difiri entre nidos exitosos y no exitosos slo en C. fuscicollis. Las aves playeras no prefirieron anidar en hbitats en donde el alimento era ms abundante. Aunque el xito de los nidos vari entre las especies en todos los aos, experimentos realizados con nidos artificiales sugirieron que la variacin interespecfica en la tasa de depredacin no estuvo relacionada con el tipo de hbitat. En cambio, la marcada variacin interespecfica en el xito de nidificacin podra haber estado relacionada con el comportamiento de incubacin. Aunque los resultados deben considerarse preliminares, las especies que tomaron menos recesos de incubacin tuvieron un xito de nidificacin mayor. El factor con la mayor influencia interanual sobre el xito de nidificacin fue la presin de depredacin fluctuante, la cual aparentemente se relacion con la abundancia de depredadores y roedores. 
10.2307/1368566|I studied a color-banded population of Black-headed Grosbeaks (Pheucticus melanocephalus) in the Sandia Mountains of central New Mexico to investigate the relationship between the age and plumage brightness of territorial males and the quality of their breeding habitat. In three seasons of fieldwork, I found that the breeding territories defended by males varied in vegetation structure and hence in the abundance of Scrub Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) and Steller's Jays (Cyanocitta stelleri), the primary nest predators of grosbeaks. Age appeared to be the primary correlate of male territory quality. Males 3 years and older defended areas with heterogeneous vegetation and low density of jays and, consequently, had high reproductive success; yearling and 2-year-old males occupied more densely vegetated areas with higher jay activity and had lower reproductive success. Independent of age, there was also a tendency for brightly plumaged males to occupy more heterogeneous habitat with lower jay activity than duller males. This age-and-plumage-structured settlement pattern is apparently maintained between years by the shifting of males into more preferred habitat as they become older. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that habitat saturation, resulting in limited opportunities for recruitment into the breeding population, may have been an important factor in the evolution of delayed plumage maturation in this species.
4123213| We tested the hypothesis proposed by Friedmann (1963) that multiple parasitism (nests with more than one parasitic egg) by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) is a recent phenomenon associated with increased densities of cowbirds. We used Ontario Nest Records Scheme data to quantify frequencies of parasitism and multiple parasitism on four common host species over the last 130 years. Frequency of multiple parasitism significantly increased over all decades only in Chipping Sparrows (Spizella passerina). We also analyzed data separately before and after 1970 because at about this time cowbird abundance began to stabilize and then decline. Pre-1970, multiple parasitism significantly increased on Chipping Sparrows and Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia), but neither had significant trends post-1970. There were no significant trends in multiple parasitism on Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus) or Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). For all time periods analyzed, there were no significant trends in overall frequency of parasitism on any species. Our results provide limited support for the hypothesis that temporal variation in parasitism patterns has followed changes in cowbird density over the past century. /// Pusimos a prueba la hiptesis propuesta por Friedmann (1963) que establece que el parasitismo mltiple (nidos con ms de un huevo de la especie parsita) por Molothrus ater es un fenmeno reciente asociado con el incremento en la densidad de esta especie. Utilizamos la informatin de los registros de nidos en Ontario para cuantificar las frecuencias de parasitismo y parasitismo mltiple en cuatro especies de hospederos a travs de los ltimos 130 aos. La frecuencia de parasitismo mltiple se increment significativamente en todas las dcadas nicamente para Spizella passerina. Tambin analizamos de manera independiente informacin recolectada antes y despus de 1970 debido a que en este periodo la abundancia de M. ater comenz a estabilizarse y posteriormente a declinar. Antes de 1970, el parasitismo mltiple se increment significativamente en S. passerina y en Melospiza melodia, pero despus de 1970 no se presentaron tendencias significativas en el parasitismo de estas especies. No existieron tendencias significativas de parasitismo mltiple para Vireo olivaceus y para Cardinalis cardinalis. No hubo tendencias significativas en la frecuencia global de parasitismo para ninguna especie durante todos los periodos temporales analizados. Nuestros resultados proveen poco apoyo a la hiptesis de que la variacin temporal en patrones de parasitismo ha seguido cambios en la densidad de M. ater a lo largo del siglo pasado. 
10.2307/1369996|We investigated the influence of dieldrin, a persistent organochlorine, on a top trophic level raptor, by comparing productivity and survival of Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus) using contaminated and uncontaminated areas. Between 1994-1996, we worked on a Superfund hazardous waste site, the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge in Colorado. Productivity of owls did not differ between those using the contaminated and uncontaminated areas. Adults in the uncontaminated area had nominally higher survival from 15 January-15 August. Mortalities related to dieldrin in adults were most likely the result of mobilization of dieldrin from other tissues due to nutritional stress associated with reproduction. Interval survival of juveniles in contaminated and uncontaminated areas was similar, however, dieldrin residue in plasma at nine weeks of age was strongly and negatively related to survival; juveniles with higher dieldrin residues died during dispersal. Plasma dieldrin concentrations in juveniles correlated with dieldrin levels in soil and prey within parental home ranges. Consequently, sampling dieldrin in juvenile plasma is a more reliable method for monitoring the impact of dieldrin than counting number of young fledged per nest.
10.2307/1368274|A fossil motmot, known from the proximal end of a humerus, from the late Miocene (early Hemphillian, approximately 8 MYA) Haile XIXA locality, Alachua County, Florida, is morphologically indistinguishable from that of living species of Electron, Momotus, and Eumomota. This is the first fossil record of the family Momotidae in the Tertiary of the New World. The presence of a motmot in Florida prior to the land connection between North and South America provides evidence for the Momotidae being widely distributed in the southern part of North America during the late Tertiary, then invading South America during the "Great American Interchange."
40306182|In 2003, we evaluated nest survival and density of the Dickcissel (
10.2307/1367600|Observations on 13 species of hawks and owls in savanna-forest habitat of Venezuela suggest that at least some species breed principally in either the dry season or the wet season but usually not both. Nesting sites varied from stick nests in palms and trees to tree cavities; most species laid one to two eggs per clutch. Young White-tailed Hawks and Great Black Hawks appear to receive prolonged post-fledging care.
10.1525/cond.2013.120001|Life-history theory suggests that delayed maturation is beneficial to birds when costs of breeding early in life are high. We compared selected aspects of the biology of male Coopers Hawks (
10.2307/1369605|Effects of diflubenzuron (a chitin-synthesis inhibiting insecticide) application on diets of forest birds were evaluated in eastern West Virginia in 1986. Nine species of songbirds were collected from May through July from treated and untreated plots. Gut contents from each specimen were removed and 10 arthropod taxa were identified. The percentage biomass comprised by each food taxon and total gut biomass was determined for each specimen. The diets of five species were significantly different between treated and untreated plots. In general, biomass of Lepidoptera larvae was reduced and biomass of other orders (Homoptera, Diptera, Coleoptera, etc.) was greater at treated sites. In addition, two species displayed reduced total gut biomass at treated sites. These data show that while diflubenzuron is not directly toxic to vertebrates, birds are affected indirectly through reduced availability of Lepidoptera larvae. Birds possessed differing capabilities to compensate for these diflubenzuron-induced food reductions. Most birds adjusted by switching prey, while others consumed less food. Resident species experienced less impact than did migrants.
10.2307/1369105|We develop a method of aging Great Snipe (Gallinago media) by quantifying primary feather wear. No reliable method has hitherto existed to separate young (first-summer, second calendar year) and old Great Snipe during the breeding season. We quantified primary wear of cut-off feather tips using a binocular microscope and scored the degree of wear on six variables. We found that primary wear separated well between young and old birds, whereas morphological variation did not. In a sample of 405 Great Snipes from Norway, 98.7% of the males of known age (74 old, 3 young) were correctly classified to age with discriminant analysis using primary feather wear. We review the potential use of primary feather wear to separate first-summer individuals from older individuals in 113 Nearctic and Palearctic shorebird (Charadriiformes) species. We note that in the majority of species, differential primary wear is the only available aging method during the breeding season.
1370645| Shallow facultative rest-phase hypothermia has been reported in a number of passerine families, but few published data exist about its use by free-ranging birds. We used temperature-sensitive radio-transmitters to determine whether White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) employ nocturnal hypothermia during winter. We measured skin temperatures of 24 free-ranging sparrows between 13:00 and 14:00 and between 02:00 and 03:00 for each of three days and nights per subject. The average nightly skin-temperature reduction per individual was 3.4  1.0C (SD). Skin temperature reductions ranged from 0.2C to 7.0C among all individuals. There was a significant negative correlation between the magnitude of skin temperature decline and nighttime ambient temperature. Additionally, we found a negative trend between depth of hypothermia and a body density index. /// La fase de reposo facultativa somera ha sido mencionada para un nmero de familias de paseriformes, pero existen pocos datos publicados sobre su uso por parte de aves que se desplazan libremente. Usamos radio transmisores sensibles a la temperatura para determinar si Zonotrichia albicollis emplea hipotermia nocturna durante el invierno. Medimos la temperatura de la piel de 24 individuos que se desplazan libremente entre las 13:00 y 14:00 y entre las 02:00 y 03:00 durante tres das y tres noches por individuo. La reduccin nocturna promedio de la temperatura de la piel por individuo fue 3.4  1.0C (DE). Las reducciones de la temperatura de la piel variaron entre 0.2C y 7.0C considerando todos los individuos. Hubo una correlacin negativa significativa entre la disminucin de la magnitud de la temperatura de la piel y la temperatura ambiental nocturna. Adicionalmente, encontramos una tendencia negativa entre la profundidad de la hipotermia y el ndice de densidad corporal. 
10.2307/1369541|Tape recording of singing male Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) and Lazuli Buntings (P. amoena) from allopatric populations produced catalogs of 127 indigo and 122 lazuli syllable types. These totals result from adding newly-described syllable types (29 indigo, 42 lazuli) to previous descriptions (Thompson 1970, 1976). While some syllable types are more variable than others, the overall variation is remarkably discontinuous and syllable types are usually easily recognized. The same syllable types occur and at similar frequencies of abundance in different populations and at different times. The patterns of commoness and rarity of syllable types fit a "broken-stick" distribution, a model developed to explain relative abundance of species in communities. Some syllable types are specialized in their position within songs, some are used virtually anywhere in the song, but many are intermediate in degree of specialization of position. Together with results from other studies of bunting songs, our data suggest that the individual syllables in bunting songs can be considered memes, the cultural equivalent of genes. These syllable memes constitute the units of recombination from which whole-song variation is generated. A minor amount of variation is introduced by mutation of syllables. The syllable types are geographically widely distributed and may be considered species universal song elements, similar to findings in the songs in populations of Swamp Sparrows (Melospiza georgiana, Marler and Pickert 1984). The stability of syllables over space and time raises the possibility of a canalizing factor that guides the learning process in young buntings even during cross-species syllable acquisition.
4501004| We provide details on the breeding biology of the Violet-chested Hummingbird (Sternoclyta cyanopectus) based on 67 nests studied in Yacamb National Park, Venezuela, from 2002 through 2006. Clutch size was two white eggs, usually laid every other day. Fresh egg mass (0.95  0.14 g) was 15% of female mass. Incubation and nestling periods were 20.4  0.3 and 26.0  0.4 days, respectively. Nest attentiveness increased from 60% in early incubation to 68% in late incubation. The female spent 50% of her time brooding young nestlings, but ceased brooding by 13 days of age. Only the female fed the young, with a low rate of nest visitation (3.3 trips per hour) that did not increase with age of the young. Growth rate based on nestling mass (K = 0.28) was slow. Daily predation rates decreased across stages and were 0.064  0.044, 0.033  0.008, and 0.020  0.006 during the egg-laying, incubation, and nestling periods, respectively. Most, but not all, life history traits of the Violet-chested Hummingbird were similar to those reported for other tropical and temperate hummingbirds, providing further evidence that this family shows a relatively narrow range of life history variation. /// Nuestro estudio provee detalles sobre la biologa reproductiva del colibr Sternoclyta cyanopectus (n = 67 nidos) en el Parque Nacional Yacamb, Venezuela, durante las temporadas reproductivas de 2002 a 2006. La hembra puso siempre dos huevos blancos y ovalados, usualmente cada dos das. Los huevos frescos (0.95  0.14 g) representaron un 15% de la masa de la hembra. Los periodos de incubacin y de polluelos fueron de 20.4  0.3 y 26.0  0.4 das, respectivamente. La atencin al nido increment desde un 60% durante la incubacin temprana a un 68% durante la incubacin tarda. La hembra invirti el 50% de su tiempo en empollar, pero se detuvo a los 13 das de edad de los huevos o antes. Slo la hembra aliment a los polluelos, con una tasa de alimentacin baja (3.3 veces por hora) que no increment con la edad de los polluelos. La tasa de crecimiento con base en la masa (K = 0.28) fue lenta. Las tasas de depredacin diaria fueron 0.064  0.044, 0.033  0.008 y 0.020  0.006 durante los periodos de postura, incubacin y polluelos, respectivamente. Nuestros datos proveen evidencia de un rango de variacin relativamente estrecho en la biologa reproductiva de la familia Trochilidae. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120009|Although plumage coloration has been widely used as a model in studies of the evolution of signaling, the role of plumage in intrasexual communication has been less studied, especially in cases of the structural plumage color. The aim of our study was to use choice trials and plumage manipulation to test whether or not the structural blue color of the male Blue Grosbeak (
4123195| The recognition of the importance of spatial scale in ecology has led many researchers to take multiscale approaches to studying habitat associations. However, few of the studies that investigate habitat associations at multiple spatial scales have considered the potential effects of cross-scale correlations in measured habitat variables. When cross-scale correlations in such studies are strong, conclusions drawn about the relative strength of habitat associations at different spatial scales may be inaccurate. Here we adapt and demonstrate an analytical technique based on variance decomposition for quantifying the influence of cross-scale correlations on multiscale habitat associations. We used the technique to quantify the variation in nest-site locations of Red-naped Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus nuchalis) and Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) associated with habitat descriptors at three spatial scales. We demonstrate how the method can be used to identify components of variation that are associated only with factors at a single spatial scale as well as shared components of variation that represent cross-scale correlations. Despite the fact that no explanatory variables in our models were highly correlated (r < 0.60), we found that shared components of variation reflecting cross-scale correlations accounted for roughly half of the deviance explained by the models. These results highlight the importance of both conducting habitat analyses at multiple spatial scales and of quantifying the effects of cross-scale correlations in such analyses. Given the limits of conventional analytical techniques, we recommend alternative methods, such as the variance-decomposition technique demonstrated here, for analyzing habitat associations at multiple spatial scales. /// El reconocimiento de la importancia de la escala espacial en la ecologa ha llevado a muchos investigadores a tomar enfoques de escalas mltiples para estudiar las asociaciones de hbitat. Sin embargo, pocos de los estudios que han investigado las asociaciones de hbitat a varias escalas espaciales han considerado los efectos potenciales de las correlaciones a travs de escalas en las variables de hbitat medidas. Cuando las correlaciones a travs de escalas en dichos estudios son fuertes, las conclusiones acerca de la importancia relativa de las asociaciones de hbitat a distintas escalas espaciales podran ser inexactas. En este estudio adaptamos y demostramos el uso de una tcnica analtica basada en la descomposicin de la varianza para cuantificar la influencia de las correlaciones sobre las asociaciones de hbitat a travs de escalas mltiples. Empleamos esta tcnica para cuantificar la variacin en la ubicacin de sitios de nidificacin de Sphyrapicus nuchalis y Colaptes auratus en asociacin con descripciones del hbitat a tres escalas espaciales. Demostramos cmo puede utilizarse el mtodo para identificar los componentes de la variacin que estn asociados slo con factores a una escala espacial, adems de los componentes compartidos que representan correlaciones entre escalas. A pesar de que las variables de prediccin incluidas en nuestros modelos no estuvieron estrechamente correlacionadas (r < 0.60), encontramos que los componentes de variacin compartidos que reflejan correlaciones entre escalas fueron responsables de cerca de la mitad de la desviacin explicada por los modelos. Estos resultados resaltan la importancia de realizar estudios sobre el hbitat a escalas espaciales mltiples y de cuantificar los efectos de las correlaciones a travs de escalas en dichos anlisis. Dadas las limitaciones de las tcnicas analticas convencionales, recomendamos el uso de mtodos alternativos (como la tcnica de descomposicin de varianza aqu demostrada) para analizar las asociaciones de hbitat a escalas espaciales mltiples. 
10.2307/1370275|We used multi-locus DNA fingerprinting to determine the parentage of 13 broods of Bell Miner (Manorina melanophrys) nestlings. Despite very large contingents of male helpers attending individual nests and living in close proximity to breeding females, we found only one instance of extra-pair paternity in 24 nestlings. The genetic father of the extra-pair nestling was not among the males in our study population. The majority of helpers (67% of 52 cases) were close relatives (r > 0.25) of at least one parent of the brood being provisioned. Helpers were more often closely related to the male than the female parent. Only 17% of cases involved helpers that were apparently unrelated to either of the parents of the broods being aided. We conclude that Bell Miners do not mate promiscuously and that the majority of helpers are close relatives of the breeding pair. Cooperative breeding in Bell Miners seems to have evolved as a system of collateral kinship among the breeding birds and helpers.
10.2307/1369597|We conducted two controlled experiments with captive Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) to test potential limiting factors for egg production in this obligate brood parasite. Twenty-four wild-caught females were placed in separate pens during the breeding season and provided with crushed oyster shell and nests containing mock eggs. To test the calcium limitation hypothesis, we removed oyster shell from the diet of females and compared their fecundity to that of controls. The fecundity of females on the restricted calcium diet declined significantly and averaged 61% fewer eggs than the controls. To test the host nest availability hypothesis, we removed all nests from the pens of females and compared fecundity to that of controls. Fecundity of females deprived of host nests was not significantly different from controls. Results of these experiments suggest that fecundity of Brown-headed Cowbirds can be limited by dietary calcium, but not by availability of host nests. The 12 control females produced a total of 316 eggs over a 89-day breeding period from 25 April to 22 July. Individual fecundity of control females averaged 26.3 eggs, significantly greater than that of the same females as yearlings. Three females laid more than 40 eggs during the breeding season and one female laid 77 eggs, including an egg each day for 67 consecutive days, surpassing the previous record for number of eggs produced in a single breeding season by a wild bird. Brown-headed Cowbirds appear to be under intense selection pressure to produce eggs at a high rate, but the ability of wild females to acquire sufficient dietary calcium to form egg shells may pose a constraint on fecundity.
10.1525/cond.2012.110158|Directionality is a key feature of vocalizations in birds and can provide insight into vocalizations function and propagation. Despite recent interest in birds production of nonvocal acoustic signals, little is known about the directionality of these sounds. Here, we examine the directionality of the drumming display of male Ruffed Grouse (
10.2307/1369599| Egg-laying behavior of free-living Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus) was studied at Chilkat Pass, B.C. to learn if females were indeterminate egg-layers in natural conditions. Eggs were removed from clutches of experimental birds during laying, usually beginning with the third egg. All birds were determinate egg-layers and there was no difference in the number of eggs laid by control (x = 8.11 eggs, n = 19) and experimental (x = 8.00 eggs, n = 20) females. Number of eggs did not cue the cessation of laying because females started incubation with 2-3 eggs left in the nest. 
1370026| I described the body mass changes of free-living Blackcaps (Sylvia atricapilla) feeding during spring migration in the Negev Desert, Israel, and investigated the causes of the mass-change patterns in the laboratory. Blackcaps that remained for more than one day at the Negev Desert stopover site had lower mass and fat scores when first caught than birds caught only once. In both 1996 and 1997, Blackcaps that remained for longer than one day showed an initial period of low cumulative mass gain followed by large cumulative mass gain. The minimum stopover duration before reaching this mass-change threshold was 3 days in 1996 and 4 days in 1997. Wild-caught Blackcaps fed in the laboratory increased food intake for the first 3 days of feeding, and then intake remained constant. Similarly, food intake in Blackcaps recovering from a 59-hr fast ate less the first day of recovery than on subsequent days. The field and laboratory results are consistent with the hypothesis that a bird's intake rate may be physiologically limited upon arrival to a stopover site, preventing large mass gains until assimilation organs recuperate. /// Describ los cambios en la masa corporal de individuos silvestres de Sylvia atricapilla que se alimentaron durante la migracin de primavera en el Desierto de Negev, Israel, e investigu en el laboratorio las causas de los patrones de cambio en masa corporal. Los individuos de S. atricapilla que permanecieron por ms de un da en el sitio de escala (Desierto de Negev) presentaron valores menores de masa y grasa la primera vez que fueron atrapados que individuos atrapados slo una vez. Tanto en 1996 como 1997, los individuos de S. atricapilla que permanecieron por ms de un da presentaron un perodo inicial de lenta ganancia acumulativa de masa, seguido por uno de gran ganancia acumulativa. El tiempo mnimo de escala antes de alcanzar este umbral en el cambio de masa fue de 3 das en 1996 y de 4 das en 1997. Los individuos silvestres de S. atricapilla que fueron capturados y llevados al laboratorio incrementaron el consumo de alimento durante los 3 primeros das de alimentacin, y luego el consumo permaneci constante. Del mismo modo, individuos de S. atricapilla que se encontraban recuperndose de un perodo de ayuno de 59 hr consumieron menos alimentos durante el primer da post-ayuno que en los das subsecuentes. Los resultados de campo y laboratorio son consistentes con la hiptesis de que la tasa de consumo de un ave puede estar fisiolgicamente limitada al momento de la llegada a un sitio de escala, impidiendo grandes ganancias en masa corporal hasta que los rganos de asimilacin se recuperan. 
10.2307/1367389|We examined colony and nest site selection in Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) from 1976 to 1979 in Barnegat Bay, New Jersey. Laughing Gulls nested predominantly in Spartina alterniflora on low salt marsh islands. In 1978, the gulls shifted colony locations to higher islands that contained a higher percentage of S. patens and Phragmites. The gulls nested on spoil areas which were slightly higher in elevation. Differential nesting success occurred as a function of habitat because of high tides in early July which wiped out all nests in S. alterniflora and most of those in S. patens. Chick survival varied as a function of vegetation type. We propose that all larid species exhibit site tenacity because they return to former sites even if they eventually shift locations. Further, we suggest that each species chooses from a wide range of potential colony and nest sites depending upon local conditions and proximate environmental cues.
10.1525/cond.2010.100024|Bachman's Sparrow (
10.2307/1369186|We investigated food availability for a long-distance migrant species, the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla), in both its summer breeding habitat in New Hampshire and in its winter habitat in Jamaica. We used four components of foraging behavior (prey attack rate, foraging speed, time spent foraging, and foraging maneuver use) as indicators of the relative availability of prey in the two seasons. Redstarts attacked prey at a significantly greater rate in summer than in winter, indicating that foraging birds encountered prey more frequently in summer. The winter prey-encounter rate was low even though redstarts moved almost twice as fast while foraging in winter as in summer. Male redstarts also spent more time foraging in winter (85%) than in summer (43-65%), possibly to balance the low rate at which they encountered prey. In winter, redstarts used more foraging maneuvers that were directed towards small flying prey, whereas in summer they used maneuvers that resulted in the capture of relatively large and presumably energy-rich prey such as lepidopteran larvae. That wintering redstarts foraged faster, attacked prey less often, and spent more time foraging than those in summer indicates that the winter is a period of relative food scarcity for this species, whereas the breeding season is a period of greater resource abundance.
10.2307/1369728|We examined skeletal development at the time of first flight in House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) as one step in assessing whether calcium availability limits nestling growth in this species. Young wrens begin flying with about 49 mg of calcium in their skeletons, 30% less calcium than is found in adult skeletons. Degree of calcification varies greatly from bone to bone at first flight which suggests that, during development, growing nestlings selectively allocate more calcium to certain skeletal components than to others. The coracoids, which directly resist contractions of the large flight muscles, are the most calcified bones in the fledgling body. Unexpectedly, long bones of the wing are not highly calcified at nest-leaving and are less calcified than leg bones. Strong leg bones may reflect the fact that young use legs extensively when competing for food within nests, and that legs probably bear the brunt of hard, awkward landings which young birds experience before flight is perfected.
10.1525/cond.2013.110178|Survival of fledgling songbirds can be influenced by habitat characteristics at multiple spatial scales, and identifying the relative influence of habitat characteristics at the micro (immediately surrounding fledglings) and meso (level of stand or cover type) scales is important for management and conservation planning. We modeled survival of fledgling Ovenbirds (
10.2307/1369514|The relationship between the thermal microclimate and foraging site selection by Mountain Chickadees (Parus gambeli) was investigated during February and March 1992 in south central Wyoming. Air temperature, wind speed, and solar radiation were measured at 465 actual foraging sites and 525 available sites using battery powered dataloggers and sensors mounted on extendable poles. Mountain Chickadees selected sites that had higher air temperatures and lower wind speeds than available foraging sites. Solar radiation at actual foraging sites did not differ from available foraging sites. Standard operative temperatures at actual foraging sites were closer to idealized warm sites than were available foraging sites. The thermal environment, in addition to food availability, may contribute to foraging site choice by Mountain Chickadees in winter.
10.2307/1368954|I investigated the distribution of white and dark morphs of the Eastern Reef Heron (Egretta sacra) on several coasts and islands in central to southwestern Japan, eastern Australia, and French Polynesia. Both morphs preferred white beaches to dark beaches. Every local population contained some dark herons, however, the range of the white morph was restricted. The white morph population increased in proportion to the distance from the equator in Japan. It was plentiful in the Great Barrier Reef in Australia and was common in Polynesian islands. The distribution of the white morph coincides with the presence of coral reefs, from which white beaches are derived. Only the dark morph was seen outside this range. None of several hypotheses proposed so far explains the observed polymorphism and its geographic variation.
10.2307/1369745|We explored patterns of flight activity, flocking, and habitat use in a diverse community of parrots in an Amazonian lowland forest. Parrots were most active just after sunrise with a second peak of flight activity following a mid-day lull. Brotogeris spp. were exceptional, being most active in the early afternoon. Among the nine genera studied, we observed marked differences in where the birds flew relative to the canopy. Body size was a poor predictor of flight height, although it was strongly and inversely correlated with flock size. Most parrot species flew in groups of one to four individuals, suggesting that mated pairs are stable and that family groups remain together post-fledging. Flocks were exclusively monospecific except when the birds were foraging in trees or eating soil at clay licks. These forest-dwelling parrots did not show dramatic increases in flock size in the evening, reflecting the lack of communal and multispecies roosting observed in other parrots. Generally, the large- and mid-sized species of parrots were associated with high-ground forest, whereas smaller species favored transitional forest. Because daily ranging patterns for these parrots potentially include all habitats, these patterns of habitat use suggest selection for subtle differences among forest types. As expected, smaller species were less detectable at a distance than large species. Comparisons of size and detectability indicate that macaws can be reliably counted to a distance of 300 m, but 100 m may be more appropriate for the smaller and low-flying genera. In sum, we found that observing parrots from the canopy is a useful method for quantifying parrot activities in a closed-canopy system, and that these forest-dwelling parrots are markedly less social than their counterparts on islands and in more open habitats. Patterns of flight behavior, habitat preferences, and the body size to flock size relationship invite further studies on the roles of predation and resource availability in the structuring of parrot communities.
40072375|We measured provisioning and growth patterns in Bald Eagle (
10.2307/1368150|The extent and effects of hidden variation on detecting evolutionary patterns in the family Laridae were examined using sequential starch-gel electrophoresis of proteins. To determine whether more alleles were hidden at higher taxonomic levels than within species, 25 individuals of Sterna forsteri and 20 species in the family Laridae were analyzed. Varied conditions detected two hidden alleles in the 25 S. forsteri, whereas 26 alleles were hidden across the 20 larid species. These alleles were hidden using buffer conditions not commonly employed in avian electrophoretic surveys and had no effect on phylogenetic reconstruction. Distance-Wagner analysis showed the following to be distinct groups: (1) Rynchopinae, (2) Stercorariinae, (3) Anous stolidus, (4) Larinae, and (5) Sterninae. Within the Sterninae, S. antillarum and Chlidonias niger are the most divergent. Sterna maxima and S. forsteri are sister taxa, as are S. nilotica and Phaetusa simplex. Sterna hirundo and S. vittata show no differences at the 23 loci examined, which does not support the hypothesis that S. vittata arose from a migrant population of S. paradisaea that remained in the Antarctic. Cladistic analysis provides evidence that A. stolidus, placed with the Sterninae under all classification schemes, is indeed a tern, but may be evolving faster than other terns. The results of this study agree generally with a morphometric analysis of the Laridae by Schnell (1970a, 1970b).
10.2307/1366999| On Punta Suarez, Isla Espaola, Galpagos Islands, Masked Boobies (Sula dactylatra) nested at the edge of a cliff while Blue-footed Boobies (Sula nebouxii) nested farther inland. Elsewhere in the Galpagos, Blue-footed Boobies nested near cliff edges at seven of eight sites where Masked Boobies were absent. Masked Boobies appeared to have difficulty taking flight except from the cliff edge, while Blue-footed Boobies were able to take off from the interior. Neither species appeared dominant in interspecific interactions or could displace the other from occupied nest sites. Blue-footed Boobies may avoid nesting near cliff edges where Masked Boobies are present in order to avoid more frequent conflicts caused by a restricted habitat. Any such competition which occurs seems to involve only a small percentage of either species and seems unlikely to limit the numbers of breeding birds or the total population. 
1370383| Pair territoriality outside of the breeding season is a relatively uncommon pattern of social organization in the Paridae (tits, titmice, and chickadees). Within the territorial parids, pair territoriality appears to be the derived state. Because of this, it is possible to address the question: What favors the evolution of this social system? I assessed factors that may be responsible for inducing pair territoriality in Juniper Titmice (Baeolophus ridgwayi), focusing largely on foraging behavior and predation risk. I found that the diet of Juniper Titmice is distinctive as compared to other tits, with large seeds (juniper and pinyon pine) and acorns making up most of the winter diet instead of arthropods. Time budgets reflected that a large proportion of time is spent handling food. Space use was strongly skewed toward locations that should be relatively safe from predators, both because food is located in such sites and because titmice transport seeds to sheltered sites for processing. Seeds decreased significantly in abundance through the course of the winter. Comparisons with group-living tit species that forage largely on arthropods show differences in time and space use. I conclude that the suite of behaviors associated with foraging on large seeds has shifted the cost-to-benefit ratio of group living for Juniper Titmice relative to other tits. /// La presencia de parejas con territorios ms all de la estacin reproductiva es un patrn de organizacin social relativamente poco comn en la Familia Paridae. Entre las especies de Paridae que son territoriales, la existencia de parejas territoriales parece representar la condicin derivada. Debido a ello es posible preguntarse: Qu favorece la evolucin de este sistema social? Evalu factores que pueden ser responsables de inducir la territorialidad en parejas de Baeolophus ridgwayi, concentrndome bsicamente en el comportamiento de forrajeo y el riesgo de depredacin. Encontr que la dieta de invierno de B. ridgwayi se distingue claramente de la de otros Paridae porque est constituida en su mayor parte por grandes semillas (Juniperus y Pinus edulis) y bellotas, en lugar de artrpodos. Una gran proporcin del tiempo disponible es dedicado a la manipulacin de alimentos, como lo reflejan los anlisis de uso del tiempo. El uso del espacio estuvo fuertemente sesgado hacia localidades que deberan brindar relativa proteccin de los depredadores, debido a que los alimentos se encuentran en estos sitios y a que B. ridgwayi transporta semillas a sitios protegidos para luego procesarlas all. La abundancia de semillas se redujo significativamente en el transcurso del invierno. Comparaciones con especies de Paridae que viven en grupos que consumen principalmente artrpodos mostr diferencias en el uso del espacio y tiempo. Mi conclusin es que la relacin costo-beneficio de vivir en grupo se ha visto modificada en B. ridgwayi comparada con otros Paridae, debido a la serie de comportamientos en esta especie asociados con el forrajeo de semillas grandes. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090216|Even though it is widely acknowledged that mate choice in female songbirds is likely to be based on multimodal cues such as those encoded in audiovisual song displays, procedural difficulties have limited studies of mate choice in songbirds mainly to acoustic signals. In the current study, we used audiovisual recordings of male Brown-headed Cowbirds (
4151092| We report the wing bones of a small passeriform bird from the early Oligocene of France, which are among the earliest fossil remains of Passeriformes in Europe. The specimen is clearly distinguished from oscines, to which all extant European passeriforms belong, and closely resembles suboscine passerines in presumably derived features. If future, more complete specimens support its assignment to the suboscines, it would be the earliest fossil record of this passeriform taxon. Together with other fossils from the early Oligocene of Germany, it indicates that nonoscine passerines colonized Europe before the arrival of oscines. /// Anunciamos el hallazgo de huesos del ala de una pequea ave paseriforme del Oligocenoc temprano de Francia, que est entre los restos fsiles ms tempranos de paseriformes en Europa. El espcimen se distingue claramente de los oscines, al cual pertenecen todos los paseriformes europeos vivientes, y se asemeja marcadamente a los paseriformes suboscines en rasgos presumiblemente derivados. Si hallazgos futuros de especimenes ma completos apoyan su asignacin a los suboscines, sera el registro fsil ms temprano de este taxn paseriforme. Junto con otros fsiles del Oligoceno temprano de Alemania, este hallazgo indica que los paserinos no oscines colonizaron Europa antes de la llegada de los oscines. 
4096523|Passerines that are year-round residents in temperate climates undergo seasonal acclimatization that facilitates maintenance of thermoregulatory homeostasis. These changes in thermoregulatory metabolism must be supported by equivalent changes in oxygen transport. We measured the effects of ambient temperature and time of day on metabolism and ventilation in House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) in summer and winter. House Sparrows were exposed to ambient temperatures (T
10.1525/cond.2012.110112|For most bird species, biparental care is expected to play an integral role in offspring survival. Nevertheless, relatively few studies have simultaneously examined male and female investment into nest attendance, the prevalence of nest attendance through the nesting cycle, or the relationship between nest-attendance effort and nesting success. Here, in a monogamous passerine, the Wood Thrush (
1369820| Lewis's Woodpecker (Melanerpes lewis) has been characterized as a "burn specialist" because of its preference for nesting within burned pine forests. No prior study, however, has demonstrated the relative importance of crown-burned forests to this woodpecker species by examining its reproductive success in different forest types. We studied breeding Lewis's Woodpeckers in cottonwood (Populus fremontii) riparian forest patches of Colorado and crown-burned ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests of Idaho to compare their reproductive success, productivity, and potential source-sink status in the two forest types. Daily nest survival rates were significantly lower in cottonwood compared to burned pine forests. Nesting success was 46% (n = 65) in cottonwood forests and 78% (n = 283) in burned pine forests. Proportion of nests destroyed by predators was significantly higher in cottonwood forests (34%) compared to burned pine forests (16%). We consistently found crown-burned forests to be potential source habitat, whereas cottonwood riparian sites were more often concluded to be potential sink habitat. Cottonwood riparian forests were surrounded primarily by an agricultural landscape where the composition and abundance of nest predators was likely very different than the predator assemblage occupying a largescale burn in a relatively natural landscape. Conversion of riparian and adjacent grassland landscapes to agriculture and prevention of wildfire in ponderosa pine forests have likely reduced nesting habitat for this species. Prescribed understory fire is the prevailing management tool for restoring ponderosa pine ecosystems. Conditions created by crown fire may be equally important in maintaining ponderosa pine systems and conserving nesting habitat for the Lewis's Woodpecker. /// Melanerpes lewis ha sido caracterizado como un "especialista de quemas" porque prefiere anidar en reas de pinos maduros quemados. Sin embargo, ningn estudio anterior ha demostrado la importancia relativa de los bosques de rboles con copas quemadas para este carpintero examinando su xito reproductivo en diferentes tipos de bosques. Estudiamos M. lewis reproductivos en parches de bosques ribereos de Populus fremontii en Colorado y bosques de Pinus ponderosa con las copas quemadas en Idaho para comparar su xito reproductivo, productividad y la condicin potencial de fuente-sumidero de los dos tipos de bosques. Las tasas diarias de supervivencia de los nidos fueron significativamente ms bajas en los bosques de Populus fremontii que en las reas de pinos maduros quemados. El xito de los nidos fue de 46% (n = 65) en los bosques de Populus fremontii y 78% (n = 283) en los bosques de pinos quemados. La proporcin de nidos destrudos por depredadores fue signicativamente ms alta en los bosques de Populus fremontii (34%) que los bosques de pinos quemados (16%). Encontramos consistentemente que las reas de pinos con las copas quemadas son potencialmente hbitats fuente mientras que los bosques de Populus fremontii fueron considerados como sumideros potenciales con mayor frecuencia. Los bosques de Populus fremontii estaban rodeados principalmente por un paisaje agrcola donde la composicin y la abundancia de los depredadores de nidos eran probablemente muy diferentes de las de un rea quemada de gran escala en medio de un paisaje natural. La conversin de paisajes ribereos y de pastizales a reas agrcolas y la prevencin de fuegos naturales en los bosques de P. ponderosa probablemente ha reducido el habitat de anidacin de esta especie. El manejo de fuegos planificados en el sotobosque es la tcnica ms utilizada para reestablecer los ecosistemas de P. ponderosa. Las condiciones credas por el fuego enlas copas de los rboles podran ser igualmente importante para mantener los sistemas de P. ponderosa, incluyendo la conservacin de los hbitats de anidacin de M. lewis. 
10.2307/1369657|Yellow-billed Magpies (Pica nuttalli) ejected 100% of nonmimetic eggs placed in their nests despite such behavior having no detectable present day benefits. They are not currently parasitized, nor is there any evidence of a recently extinct brood parasite. Furthermore, there was no molecular evidence of conspecific parasitism, and Yellow-billed Magpies accepted eight of nine conspecific eggs transferred between nests, so recognition would rarely be of benefit if conspecific parasitism occurred. Thus, we suggest that egg recognition in Yellow-billed Magpies is a plesiomorphic trait, a primitive character inherited from a remote ancestor, its nearest relative, the Black-billed Magpie (Pica pica). The latter suffers from parasitism by Great Spotted Cuckoos (Clamator glandarius) in Eurasia and displays rejection behavior throughout Europe in populations that are allopatric and sympatric with this cuckoo. As would be expected if Yellow-billed Magpies inherited rejection behavior from the Black-billed Magpie, or the common ancestor of both species, we found that North American Black-billed Magpies also have well developed egg recognition despite being unaffected by interspecific parasitism. The long-term retention of host defenses as is indicated by magpies has major implications for the coevolutionary interactions between brood parasites and their hosts.
10.1525/cond.2012.120066|A fossil from the Middle Miocene Rosarito Beach Formation of Baja California represents a previously undescribed, auklet-sized species of wing-propelled diving Pan-Alcidae (Aves, Charadriiformes). This new taxon,
10.2307/1367071|More than 70 Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) and lesser numbers of other terns and gulls were killed on 11-12 June 1978, by Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP; toxin of the dinoflagellate Gonyaulax excavata) at a breeding colony in Massachusetts. PSP toxin was detected at lethal levels in sand-launce (Ammodytes americanus), the terns' principal food. Almost all terns that died were females in pre-laying condition; other birds vomited and survived. Breeding performance of survivors was unaffected. Mortality was greatest in three-year-old birds; 10-25% of three-year-old females were killed. Although PSP toxin was present in local shellfish for about three weeks, tern mortality was limited to a few hours on two days. Much higher levels of toxin were detected in shellfish at other parts of the Massachusetts coast in 1978 and other years, but terns and other susceptible seabirds were unaffected.
1370526| Female Magnificent Frigatebirds (Fregata magnificens) search for mates while flying and by visiting males at their display sites. Males respond with an intense courtship display that includes making a characteristic drumming sound and presenting the inflated gular pouch, a likely sexually selected trait. Viewing angle, male posturing, and proximity might, however, limit females' ability to appraise pouch size exactly. We investigated whether drumming provides the same information about pouch size and indeed found fundamental frequencies to be negatively correlated with estimated pouch sizes. Probably, the gular pouch functions as a resonance chamber. Females' assessment of gular pouch size could therefore be enhanced by the combination of visual and auditory signals. /// La bsqueda de pareja en las hembras de Fregata magnificens incluye la inspeccin durante el vuelo y visitas a los machos en sus sitios de despliegue. Los machos responden con despliegues de cortejo intensos que incluyen un sonido caracterstico de tamborileo y la presentacin de la bolsa gular inflable, un atributo probablemente seleccionado sexualmente. El ngulo de visin, la postura del macho y la proximidad podra obscurecer la evaluacin visual del tamao de la bolsa por las hembras. Investigamos si el tamborileo provee la misma informacin sobre el tamao de la bolsa y encontramos que las frecuencias fundamentales del tamborileo estuvieron negativamente correlacionadas con los tamaos estimados de las bolsas gulares. Probablemente la bolsa gular funciona como una cmara de resonancia. Las hembras podran hacer una mejor evaluacin del tamao de la bolsa gracias a la combinacin entre las seales visuales y auditivas. 
40072391|We examined the marine distribution and behavior of newly fledged juvenile (hatching year; HY) and adult (after hatching year; AHY) Marbled Murrelets (
40072425|The Red-footed Booby (
1370704| I studied the provisioning patterns of a subtropical, northern-hemisphere procellariiform, the Wedge-tailed Shearwater (Puffinus pacificus) and measured the responses of parents to chick body condition. Foraging trip length, meal size, delivery rate, and chick body condition were measured during nesting periods in 1996 and 1997. Wedge-tailed Shearwaters adopted a unimodal foraging strategy with foraging trips that averaged 1.5 to 2 days duration and averaged about 40-50 g of food per trip. The rate of food delivery (g of food per day spent foraging) decreased with increasing trip duration, such that one-day trips resulted in the greatest rate of food delivery to the nest in both 1996 and 1997. Chicks left in poorer body condition were more likely to receive visits from one or both adults the following evening (1996 and 1997) and received larger meals (1996) than those left in better condition. Although foraging strategies may differ from subpolar and temperate shearwater species, rates of food delivery to chicks (40-60 g per day) for Wedge-tailed Shearwaters were similar to these species, which feed in highly productive areas and employ bimodal (short and long) foraging trips. The distribution and abundance of prey resources in the foraging environment of procellariiform seabirds may influence foraging strategies of parents, the timing and amount they feed offspring, and the duration of parental care. /// Estudi los patrones de aprovisionamiento de Puffinus pacificus, un procelariforme subtropical del hemisferio norte, y med las respuestas de los padres a la condicin corporal del polluelo. Durante los perodos de nidificacin de 1996 y 1997 se midi la longitud del viaje de forrajeo, la cantidad de comida provista a los polluelos, la tasa de entrega de comida y la condicin corporal del polluelo. Puffinus pacificus adopt una estrategia unimodal de forrajeo, con viajes de forrajeo que promediaron entre 1.5 y 2 das de duracin, y entre 40 y 50 g de comida por viaje. La tasa de entrega de alimento (g de alimento por da de forrajeo) disminuy con el aumento de la duracin del viaje, tal que los viajes de un da resultaron en la tasa ms alta de entrega de alimento al nido, tanto en 1996 como en 1997. Los polluelos con condicin corporal ms pobre tuvieron mayor probabilidad de ser visitados por uno o ambos padres durante la tarde siguiente (1996 y 1997) y de recibir ms cantidad de comida (1996) que aquellos dejados en mejores condiciones. Aunque las estrategias de forrajeo de las especies de Puffinus subpolares y templadas pueden diferir, las tasas de entrega de alimento (40-60 g por da) a los polluelos de Puffinus pacificus fueron similares a las de estas especies, las cuales se alimentan en reas altamente productivas y emplean estrategias de forrajeo bimodales (viajes cortos y largos). La distribucin y abundancia de las presas en el rea de forrajeo de los procelariformes pueden influenciar las estrategias de forrajeo de los padres, el momento y la cantidad con que alimentan a los pichones, y la duracin del cuidado parental. 
10.2307/1366818|The effects of prey size, individual behavioral differences, satiation, and experience on handling time were tested experimentally on five captive Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) feeding on Tenebrio mollitor larvae. While prey size and individual differences had the largest effects, all four factors significantly influenced handling times. For each bird, handling times were significantly correlated with prey mass. This relationship was best-portrayed as an exponential function. Handling times increased with satiation, but decreased with experience. Two of the birds that had relatively long bills got their highest foraging returns, in terms of prey mass ingested per unit handling time, when consuming large larvae. The shorter-billed birds displayed their highest returns on medium-sized prey. Our experiments suggest that small differences in bill size could significantly influence prey selection, ultimately producing divergent diets under natural conditions.
40306215|Orientation of the entrances of bird nests may be especially important in grasslands, where protective cover from solar radiation and wind is minimal. We examined orientation patterns of nest-dome entrances in two grassland bird species, the Grasshopper Sparrow (
10.2307/1369106|We examined temporal changes in diurnal behavior among nonbreeding American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) in South Carolina during 1991 and 1992. We also assessed effects of ambient temperature on foraging, and studied relationships between maintenance activities (e.g., foraging and loafing), nearest neighbor distances (NND), and microhabitat selection (individual water depth). Only foraging and resting, the two most common activities observed, exhibited temporal variation. Foraging varied significantly among all temporal variables [year: P < 0.02; month: P < 0.03; time of day (morning, midday, and afternoon): P < 0.008; and interaction between month and time of day: P < 0.004], whereas loafing differed significantly between years only (P < 0.02). Although rising temperatures were negatively correlated with numbers of foraging avocets during both years, the relationship was significant in 1992 only (P < 0.004). Loafing and multiple scything (a tactile foraging method) were carried out in tight, dense flocks (NND < 1 meter) whereas probing (a visual foraging method) was observed primarily in loose aggregations (NND 1-10 meters). This suggests a strong interaction between maintenance activities and NND. Overall, our study demonstrates that avocets occur in flocks throughout the nonbreeding season, suggesting that flock maintenance is selectively advantageous on the species' wintering grounds.
10.2307/1368606|We studied the autumn migration of owls at Cape May Point, New Jersey, on 25 nights (178.5 hr) between 12 October and 11 November 1982 using visual and auditory techniques. We detected and observed migrating owls using an AN/PVS-3A night vision scope and 10X binoculars aided by moonlight, sky glow from a town, and the beam from a lighthouse. Barn (Tyto alba, 72.9%), Saw-whet (Aegolius acadicus, 8.6%) and Long-eared (Asio otus, 8.1%) Owls accounted for a majority of the 210 individuals counted. A comparison of the numbers of owls counted with those banded at Cape May Point during the same time period revealed a larger number and percentage of Barn Owls counted than banded, and a larger number and percentage of Saw-whet Owls banded than counted. Approximately one third of all owls were counted during the first two hours following sunset and disproportionately more owls were counted with light (<3 m sec<sup>-1</sup>) northerly winds than with other wind conditions. Mean flight directions of these species were to the west-southwest. Most Barn Owls were observed at altitudes >10 m, which may account for their lower representation in the banding sample. Our observations show that visual and auditory techniques may be usefully employed in studying the nocturnal migration of owls, but also suggest that observational/count studies of migrating owls may be subject to biases similar to those affecting diurnal count studies of migrating hawks.
10.1525/cond.2013.110176|Little is known about juvenile birds' movements during the post-fledging stage of development, especially in urbanizing landscapes where novel ecological factors such as invasive plants and altered densities of conspecifics might influence fledglings' use of space. In 2008 and 2009 we used radio telemetry to track movements of fledgling Northern Cardinals (
10.2307/1369029|We evaluated the utility of four nondestructive condition indices--body mass, body mass scaled by wing chord length, fat scoring, and total body electrical conductivity method (TOBEC)--as predictors of lipid levels in migrating Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina), Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus), and Summer Tanagers (Piranga rubra). The Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus), a winter resident, was examined for comparative purposes. In addition, we examined differences among species in relationships of total body lipids and condition indices. Body mass was the best index of lipid levels, explaining 36%-82% of the variation in total body lipids in all four species. The relative contributions of the other indices to the prediction of lipid mass varied among species although TOBEC was selected for inclusion in each regression equation. For two species, equations including TOBEC measurements had lower errors in lipid prediction than equations only using the other nondestructive indices. Errors in lipid prediction were large for all the regression equations based on condition indices. In many cases it will be necessary to develop species-specific equations to predict lipid levels with condition indices.
1370514| The presence of rotted wood is often noted in descriptions of woodpecker nest and roost sites, and ornithologists have found that certain fungi and species of woodpeckers, such as the red heart fungus (Phellinus pini) and Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) are intimately linked. The relationship assumed is usually one of woodpecker dependence or preference for partially decayed wood in which to excavate cavities, but the woodpecker is also sometimes suggested as a vector for the fungus. In this paper we review such associations and describe patterns evident among woodpecker nest sites that suggest microclimatic and microhabitat characteristics favoring fungal colonization of trees, woodpecker-favorable responses of trees to fungi, and ultimate use of the trees for woodpecker cavity excavation. Factors that favor fungal invasion and tree use by woodpeckers include tree species, growth history, site characteristics such as proximity to water and exposure to sun or shade, nature and position of tree injury, local climate, forest age and species composition, fire frequency, and human management activities. Woodpecker cavity height and entrance orientation may be related to the dispersal dynamics of fungi, which in turn may be related to forest vegetation, thermal, and hydric characteristics. /// En las descripciones de los nidos y dormideros de los carpinteros, muchas veces se menciona la presencia de madera podrida. Los ornitlogos han encontrado que ciertos hongos y especies de carpinteros, como el hongo Phellinus pini y el carpintero Picoides borealis, estn ntimamente ligados. Usualmente se supone que el carpintero depende de o prefiere la madera en cierto estado de descomposicin para excavar las cavidades, pero a veces tambin se sugiere que el carpintero es el vector del hongo. En este trabajo revisamos estas asociaciones y describimos patrones evidentes entre los sitios de nidificacin de los carpinteros que sugieren (1) que existen caractersticas micro-climticas y micro-ambientales que favorecen la colonizacin de los rboles por parte de los hongos, (2) que los rboles responden a los hongos de modo favorable para los carpinteros y (3) que los carpinteros usan luego los rboles para excavar las cavidades. Los factores que favorecen la invasin de los hongos y el uso de los rboles por parte de los carpinteros incluyen la especie de rbol, la historia de crecimiento, las caractersticas del sitio tales como la proximidad al agua y la exposicin al sol o a la sombra, el tipo y posicin del dao que presenta el rbol, el clima local, la edad y composicin de especies del bosque, la frecuencia de fuego y las actividades antrpicas de manejo. La altura y orientacin de la entrada de las cavidades de los carpinteros pueden estar relacionadas con la dinmica de dispersin del hongo, la cual a su vez puede estar relacionada con las caractersticas trmicas, hdricas y de la vegetacin del bosque. 
10.1525/cond.2011.110010|In some sexually dichromatic passerines, juvenile males retain a plumage similar to that of adult females through their first year or longer (delayed plumage maturation). The Tawny-bellied Seedeater (
10.2307/1369424| We determined the time of day at which eggs were laid and the laying interval (time between laying of successive eggs in a clutch) in the Hudson Bay race of the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima sedentaria), at La Prouse Bay, Churchill, Manitoba (5824N, 9424W). Nests were found at the one-egg stage and were subsequently visited three times daily. Analysis of the nest contents at each visit allowed us to estimate mean egg-laying times as well as the mean time at which eggs were lost to predators. The estimated mean egg-laying hour was 13:49 (CST, 95% CL 12:30-15:06). We detected no selective advantage to laying at this time based on the timing of egg predation. The average egg-laying interval was 27.7  3.4 hr. Laying intervals decreased with increasing clutch sizes. For clutches of four and five eggs, the estimated interval between the last two eggs was significantly longer than that for intervals between all other eggs, all other comparisons between intervals were not significantly different. If last-laid eggs were excluded the mean laying interval for all eggs was 26.1  4.3 hr, confirming that the last egg in a clutch takes longer to produce. We suggest that longer laying intervals of last-laid eggs may be related to hormonal changes associated with the onset of incubation. 
1370353| A new species of late Pleistocene lapwing (Aves: Charadriidae: Vanellinae) is described from the asphaltic deposits of Rancho La Brea, California. The new species is referred to the South American genus Belonopterus; it corresponds in size to small individuals of B. chilensis. This is the second paleospecies of lapwing reported for North America and the fourth described from the Americas. /// Se describe una nueva especie de avefra (Aves: Charadriidae: Vanellinae) proveniente del pleistoceno tardo de los depsitos asflticos del pleistoceno tardo de Rancho La Brea, California. La nueva especie es asignada al gnero sudamericano Belonopterus. Su tamao se corresponde al de individuos pequeos de B. chilensis. La nueva especie es la segunda paleoespecie de avefra descripta para Amrica del Norte y la cuarta descripta para las Amricas. 
10.2307/1370231|We studied patterns of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and colorimetric variation in the Le Conte's Thrasher (Toxostoma lecontei) to determine patterns of geographic variation, and to clarify subspecific and species limits. We sequenced 619 base pairs of mtDNA (parts of cytochrome b and ND6) for 14 Le Conte's Thrashers from 9 localities representing the three putative subspecies (lecontei, macmillanorum, and arenicola). Haplotypes were shared between lecontei and macmillanorum, and we do not support recognition of the latter. However, haplotypes of arenicola differed by 3.5% sequence divergence from those of lecontei and macmillanorum, and we suggest that arenicola be recognized as a species. Colorimetric analyses of 105 specimens indicated that arenicola differed consistently from lecontei and macmillanorum, corroborating the mtDNA results.
10.1525/cond.2011.100127|Despite the importance of the post-fledging period in avian population dynamics, little is known about habitat use during this life stage. We examined habitat selection by radio-tracked juvenile Slender-billed Parakeets (
10.2307/1367478|Cluster and principal components analyses were used to represent the variation in Solitary Vireo digitized notes and song compositions. These vireos utter highly stereotyped notes which they sequence as a quasiperiodic Markov chain. Birds from the same locality sing similar compositions of note types, but vary among individuals in the morphology of their notes. Learning is probably important in the development of Solitary Vireo songs and individuals incorporate small changes in their notes.
4096484| Laysan Albatross (Phoebastria immutabilis) and the closely-related Black-footed Albatross (P. nigripes) replace 20%-90% of their 35-41 wing flight feathers every year. Large-scale molt patterns (patterns between rather than within molt series) account for 77% of the variation in the number of flight feathers replaced. We identified four molt series: series A-the five outer primaries; series B-the five inner primaries plus four outer secondaries; series C-the middle secondaries; and series D-the inner secondaries. A fifth molt series may lie between series C and D. Each year, series A and D initiate molt, but series B and C may or may not initiate molt. The result is four "annual molt patterns": ABCD, ABD, ACD, and AD. Temporally overlapping waves of molt never occur within series A or B, but about one third of the time they occur within series C and D. Multiple, spatially defined waves of molt (replaced feathers separated by unreplaced feathers) never occur within series A, but occur about two thirds of the time within series B, C, and D. The inner primaries and outer secondaries constitute a single molt series, probably to equilibrate between series total feather length, and thus, total molt duration. Studies of foraging range and reproduction in albatrosses would benefit from the development of species-specific indices of molt duration and extent that are biologically as well as statistically defensible. The number of outer primary feathers replaced and the number of molt series that activate molt are two such indices for Laysan and Black-footed Albatrosses. /// Los albatros Phoebastria immutabilis y P. nigripes reemplazan 20%-90% de sus 35-41 plumas de vuelo cada ao. Los patrones de muda a gran escala (patrones entre las series de mudas, ms que adentro de las series de mudas) explican el 77% de la variacin en el nmero de plumas de vuelo reemplazadas. Identificamos cuatro series de mudas: serie A-las cinco primarias externas; serie B-las cinco primarias internas ms cuatro secundarias externas; serie C-las secundarias del medio; y serie D-las secundarias internas. Una quinta serie de muda puede ocurrir entre las series C y D. Cada ao, las series A y D inician la muda, pero las series B y C pueden o no iniciar la muda. Se obtienen como resultado cuatro "patrones anuales de muda": ABCD, ABD, ACD y AD. Dentro de las series A o B, nunca se dan olas de muda que se superponen temporalmente, pero cerca de un tercio de las veces esto ocurre dentro de las series C y D. Las olas de mudas mltiples espacialmente definidas (plumas reemplazadas separadas de plumas no reemplazadas) nunca ocurren dentro de la serie A, pero ocurren cerca de dos tercios de las veces dentro de las series B, C y D. Las primarias internas y las secundarias externas constituyen una serie nica de muda, probablemente para equilibrar entre las series el largo total de las plumas y por ende la duracin total de la muda. En los albatros, los estudios del rango de forrajeo y de reproduccin se beneficiaran del desarrollo de ndices especficos sobre la duracin y la extensin de la muda que sean biolgica y estadsticamente defendibles. El nmero de plumas primarias externas reemplazadas y el nmero de serie que activa la muda son dos ndices de este tipo para P. immutabilis y P. nigripes. 
4151091| Over four years, nestling Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) were banded and recaptured in nest boxes at a 44 km long and 1-1.5 km wide study area along the Courish Spit on the southeast Baltic coast. The return rate for males was nearly twice as high as for females. Males settled significantly closer to their natal sites than predicted by the null model, which assumed that any nest box in the study area was selected at random. For females, the frequency distribution of natal dispersal distances was not significantly different from that predicted by the null model. The difference in average dispersal distance between the sexes was highly significant. Although some individuals settled within tens of kilometers, most male Pied Flycatchers settled within several kilometers of their natal sites. We suggest that even if females settle on average farther from their natal sites than males do, both sexes imprint on a relatively small (several kilometers in diameter) area during postfledging exploration, to which they return each spring. /// A lo largo de cuatro aos, se anillaron y recapturaron pichones de Ficedula hypoleuca en cajas de nidificacin ubicadas en un rea de estudio de 44 km de largo y 1-1.5 km de ancho a lo largo del Courish Spit, en la costa sureste del Bltico. La tasa de retorno de los machos fue casi el doble que la de las hembras. Los machos se establecieron significativamente ms cerca de sus sitios natales en comparacin con lo predicho por un modelo nulo que supona que las cajas de nidificacin eran escogidas al azar. Para las hembras, la distribucin de frecuencias de las distancias de dispersin no fue significativamente diferente de la predicha por el modelo nulo. La diferencia en la distancia promedio de dispersin entre los sexos fue altamente significativa. Aunque algunos individuos se establecieron a decenas de kilmetros de sus sitios natales, la mayora lo hicieron a unos pocos kilmetros de stos. Sugerimos que an si las hembras se establecen en promedio ms lejos de sus sitios natales que los machos, ambos sexos se fijan mediante impronta a un rea relativamente pequea (de varios kilmetros de dimetro) durante sus exploraciones posteriores al abandono del nido, y regresan a estas reas cada primavera. 
1369698|We studied the effect of egg volume and body size on swimming speed, endurance, and feeding rate in captive King Eider (Somateria spectabilis) ducklings in the Canadian arctic. Sprint speed, endurance, and feeding rate were positively related to egg size and body size. Large ducklings from large eggs performed better than small ducklings from small eggs. Ducklings that are more capable swimmers and have higher feeding rates may grow more quickly and be more effective at predator evasion. Thus, ducklings from large eggs may have a survival advantage over those from small eggs under conditions where predation and nutrition may constrain survival.
1370708| We examined the contribution of individual song phrases to territorial behavior in Nuttall's White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) in the Bodega, California, dialect area. We presented territorial adult males with playbacks of five song types: local conspecific song, three single phrase types of local conspecific song, and Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) song. Local conspecific song evoked the strongest response, measured in latency to flight, number of flights, average and closest distance from playback speaker, and vocal response. Of individual song phrases, the trill evoked the strongest response, and the whistle evoked the weakest. Combining these results with those of previous studies on young birds, we describe a model of developmental change from responsiveness to all phrase types in dependent fledglings, through reliance on a species-universal phrase as a cue for song learning, to the use of a more variable, dialect-distinct phrase as a territorial signal by adults. /// Examinamos la contribucin de frases individuales de canto al comportamiento territorial de Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli en el rea del dialecto de Bodega, California. Enfrentamos a machos adultos territoriales con playbacks de cinco tipos de canto: canto local de aves coespecficas, tres tipos de frases individuales de canto local de aves coespecficas, y canto de Melospiza melodia. El canto local de aves coespecficas produjo la respuesta ms fuerte, medida como latencia a volar, nmero de vuelos, distancia media y mnima a la estacin de playback, y respuesta vocal. De las frases individuales de canto, el trino produjo la respuesta ms fuerte y el silbido la ms dbil. Combinando estos resultados con aquellos de estudios anteriores en aves jvenes, describimos un modelo de cambio en las etapas del desarrollo del canto que va desde la respuesta a todos los tipos de frases en volantones dependientes, pasando por una etapa de dependencia de una frase comn a todas las especies como gua para aprender cantos, hasta el uso de una frase dialctica distintiva como seal territorial en los adultos. 
10.2307/1369217| We report the attraction of Dark-rumped Petrels (Pterodroma phaeopygia), an endangered seabird of the Galpagos Islands, to playbacks of vocalizations and compare results during playback to results using control periods when no vocalizations were presented. From May to August in 1988 and 1989, during a total of 868 hours of playback, we captured 600 petrels in mist nets and observed 11,020 passes of petrels over the mist nets. Playback of vocalizations resulted in a mean capture rate of 0.83 petrels per hour whereas control periods yielded a mean capture rate of 0.38 petrels per hour. Playback of vocalizations resulted in a mean passing rate of 15.13 petrels per hour whereas control periods yielded a mean capture rate of 7.3 petrels per hour. Playback of vocalizations recorded from petrel colonies (groups of birds) usually resulted in higher capture and passing rates compared to rates during playback of vocalizations from single birds. These results demonstrate the potential of acoustic playback for luring seabirds to non-degraded habitat or to restored habitat. In addition to having management implications for a variety of threatened colonial nesting birds, the results reported here also suggest that certain Dark-rumped Petrel vocalizations function as indicators to the quality of nesting habitat. 
1370729| We studied the effect of forest fragmentation on the nesting biology and reproductive success of three species of tapaculos (Rhinocryptidae) in relation to forest size, edge effects, and disturbance from livestock or logging over a 6-year period (1993-1999) in Chilean temperate rainforest. Overall, Mayfield nest success (n = 360) among the three species ranged from 64% to 85%, and predation accounted for 64% of nest losses. Considering all types of losses, nest mortality was similar in fragmented and unfragmented forest, but predation was higher in fragmented forest. Successful nest sites of the Chucao Tapaculo (Sclerochilus rubecula; the species with the largest sample size) were nearer forest edges, better concealed, closer to the ground, and had longer entrance tunnels, on average, than depredated nests. Reuse of nest sites by chucaos was more common in forest fragments with livestock or logging than in undisturbed forests, but reuse was independent of forest size. Success of second broods was lower in reused nest sites than in new nest sites. Nestling growth in fragmented forest and forest with livestock or logging activity was similar to that in unfragmented and undisturbed forest. Clutch size was typically two, but birds nesting at low densities in forest fragments often laid three-egg clutches following a nest failure. In addition to negative effects of forest fragmentation during nesting (greater use of lesssuccessful nest sites, higher nest predation), there was an indication that early juvenile survival was lower in forest fragments. /// Durante seis aos (1993-1999) estudiamos los efectos de la fragmentacin de bosques templados del sur de Chile sobre la biologa y xito reproductivo de tres especies de tapaculos (Rhynocriptidae) en relacin al tamao del fragmento boscoso, efectos de borde, y perturbacin por ganado domstico y tala de rboles. En general, el xito de nidificacin (n = 360) estimado por el mtodo Mayfield para las tres especies vari entre 64% y 85%. La depredacin explic un 64% de las prdidas de nidos. Tomando en cuenta todas las causas de mortalidad, la prdida de nidos fue equivalente en bosques fragmentados y continuos, pero la depredacin fue mayor en bosques fragmentados. Los sitios de nidificacin exitosa de Sclerochilus rubecula (chucao; le especie con el mayor nmero de muestras) se encontraron, en promedio, ms cerca de los bordes, mejor ocultos, ms cerca del suelo y con tneles de entrada ms largos que los nidos depredados. La reutilizacin de nidos por parte de los chucaos fue ms comn en los fragmentos perturbados por tala de rboles o pisoteo de ganado que en bosques no perturbados, pero fue independiente del tamao del fragmento. El xito de la segunda nidada fue menor en nidos re-utilizados que en nidos nuevos. El crecimiento de los juveniles en los nidos ubicados en bosques fragmentados y perturbados fue similar al del observado en los bosques continuos no perturbados. El nmero de cras de los chucaos fue tpicamente dos, pero las aves que anidaron en fragmentos boscosos, donde la densidad local era baja, frecuentemente pusieron tres huevos por nido luego de un intento de nidificacin fallido. Adems de los efectos negativos de la fragmentacin del bosque durante el perodo de nidificacin (i.e., mayor uso de sitios de nidificacin inseguros, mayor depredacin de nidos), la sobrevivencia temprana de los juveniles sera menor en fragmentos boscosos. 
1370555| We used morphological measurements and behavioral observations to investigate the relationship between male ornaments and male social rank during the breeding season in a free-ranging population of one-year-old Ring-necked Pheasants (Phasianus colchicus). The sample was of birds of the same age class to avoid the confounding effect of age differences. Tail length, used by females in mate choice, and tarsal spur length, used by males as a weapon in fights, were not correlated with male rank, whereas the size of the wattle was the most important trait. This combined with recent studies showing that wattle size reliably indicates male testosterone levels at the beginning of the breeding season suggest that, among males, wattle size may be used as a signal of aggression level, and body condition. /// Utilizamos medidas morfolgicas y observaciones de comportamiento para investigar la relacin entre los ornamentos de los machos y el rango social de stos durante la poca reproductiva en una poblacin silvestre de faisanes Phasianus colchicus de un ao de edad. La muestra consisti de aves de la misma clase de edad para evitar el efecto de diferencias entre edades. La longitud de la cola (utilizada por las hembras en la seleccin de pareja) y la longitud de la espuela tarsal (utilizada por los machos como un arma en enfrentamientos) no se correlacionaron con el rango de los machos, mientras que el tamao de la carncula fue el caracter ms importante. En combinacin con estudios recientes que muestran que el tamao de la carncula indica confiablemente los niveles de testosterona en los machos al inicio de la poca reproductiva, esto sugiere que el tamao de la carncula podra ser usado como una seal de niveles de agresin y condicin corporal entre los machos. 
10.2307/1369350| The relatively long fledging duration of cavity-nesting birds has been related to the relative safety of their nesting sites (Lack 1968). We compared the relationships between body and egg masses and incubation (I) and fledging (F) times of 39 species of woodpeckers and wrynecks (Picidae) to those of altricial birds in general. We found that Picidae have shorter incubation and longer fledging periods in the comparable range of altricial birds' body and egg masses. However, the total development duration (I + F) is similar to that of other altricial birds. The representative F/I ratios of altricial birds within the size range of Picidae are 1.21-1.26, while for 32 picid species they are 2.09  0.09 SE. Similar trends appear to exist in other cavity-nesters. We suggest that the short incubation of Picidae is an adaptation to the apparently poor gas exchange around the eggs under the incubating parent in the nest chamber, where oxygen and carbon dioxide levels may be low and high, respectively, and early transition to pulmonary respiration associated with an increase in nest ventilation is of advantage. The relatively short incubation may indicate a relatively immature state of hatching that requires compensation by a prolonged hatching to fledging duration. 
10.2307/1367225|We quantified nocturnal singing by Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus palustris) at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, and determined nightly and seasonal patterns of this behavior in order to assess its costs and potential functions. Male Marsh Wrens sang intensively between 01:00 and 03:00 throughout the breeding season at rates approaching their daytime singing rates. Environmental conditions and moon phase did not appear to influence nocturnal singing activity and there was considerable individual variation. Pairing and reproductive success of male Marsh Wrens were not correlated with their nocturnal singing activity. The behavior could serve to attract nocturnally migrating females, stimulate reproductive behavior of females, facilitate male-male interactions in the face of acoustic interference and aggression from other species during the day, or affect the songs learned by offspring. Since males of this species sing at night throughout the breeding season, however, no one function is likely responsible for this behavior.
10.2307/1368730| We compared estimates of adult survival of Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) from Bird Banding Laboratory banding recoveries and from field observations of color-banded birds in breeding areas in southern Michigan. Color-banded males in two breeding populations in Michigan had similar survival (S
40072456|The grackles (
10.2307/1368791| We examined morphometric and genetic variation in 22 populations of three subspecies of the Sage Sparrow (Amphispiza belli belli, A. b. canescens, and A. b. nevadensis). The sum of squares simultaneous test procedure (SS-STP) demonstrated clear patterns of geographic change in six linear characters and in cube root of body mass. A UPGMA dendrogram and ordination plots using principal component analysis (PCA) and multidimensional scaling (MDS) defined two major groups of populations based on morphometric criteria: (I) those in the Coast Ranges and west slope of the Sierra Nevada (A. b. belli) plus those in the southern San Joaquin Valley and northern Mojave Desert (A. b. canescens), and (II) those in the Great Basin (A. b. nevadensis). Seventeen of 41 genetic loci scored (41.5%) were polymorphic. Genetic data identified the same two groups of populations delimited on morphometric grounds. Populations in group I were significantly less heterozygous than those of group II. Nei's genetic distances among populations of one taxon ranged from D = 0.0007 (in A. b. nevadensis) to D = 0.0015 (in A. b. canescens) and D = 0.0019 (in A. b. belli). Intertaxon Nei's D ranged from 0.0027 (A. b. belli vs. A. b. canescens) to 0.0056 (A. b. canescens vs. A. b. nevadensis) and 0.0077 (A. b. belli vs. A. b. nevadensis). An overall mean F
10.1525/cond.2013.120182|We documented the diet of the Black Oystercatcher (
4122498| The endemic Hawaiian avifauna is one of the most imperiled on earth, and diseases have been one of the most serious causes of species declines. From 1995-2005, we mist-netted and banded 266 endangered O'ahu 'Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis ibidis) from 27 sites, examined them for visible symptoms of avian pox virus (Poxvirus avium), and screened blood samples for avian malaria (Plasmodium relictum). Pox-like lesions and malaria were found in all 'Elepaio populations on O'ahu; no parts of the island were free of these mosquito-borne diseases. Each year, 20%  4% of 'Elepaio had active lesions likely caused by pox and an additional 16%  4% had deformities and missing toes indicative of healed pox lesions. Prevalence of malaria was 87% over all years combined. Pox prevalence varied among years and was associated with annual rainfall, presumably due to greater abundance of mosquito breeding sites in wet years. Rainfall amounts at least as high as those associated with pox epizootics in 1996 and 2004 have occurred in 13 years since 1947, or once every 4.5 years. Severity of infection varied considerably among birds, and infections involving three or more toes, the feet, or the head were less common in birds with healed lesions than those with active lesions, suggesting such infections resulted in mortality more often. Disease resistance may be evolving in some areas, but 'Elepaio populations on O'ahu are likely to further decline. /// La avifauna endmica de Hawai es una de las faunas que est en mayor peligro en el mundo, y las enfermedades han sido una de las causas ms importantes de la disminucin de especies. Entre 1995 y 2005 capturamos 266 individuos de Chasiempis sandwichensis ibidis mediante redes de niebla en 23 sitios. Los individuos capturados fueron examinados para determinar sntomas visibles de viruela aviar (Poxvirus avium) y colectamos muestras de sangre para determinar la presencia de malaria aviar (Plasmodium relictum). Encontramos lesiones de tipo viruela y malaria en todas las poblaciones de C. s. ibidis en O'ahu; ninguna parte de la isla se encontr libre de enfermedades transmitidas por mosquitos. Cada ao, el 20%  4% de los individuos present lesiones activas probablemente causadas por el virus de la viruela aviar y un 16%  4% adicional de los individuos present deformidades y falta de dedos indicando la presencia de lesiones de viruela que haban sido curadas. La prevalencia de la malaria fue del 87% para todos los aos juntos. La prevalencia de la viruela vari entre aos y se asoci con la cantidad de precipitacin anual, lo que probablemente se debe a la mayor abundancia de sitios de reproduccin de mosquitos en aos con ms lluvia. Niveles de precipitacin iguales o mayores a los asociados a la epizootia de viruela en 1996 y 2004 han ocurrido en 13 aos desde 1947, o una vez cada 4.5 aos. La severidad de la infeccin vari considerablemente entre aves, y las infecciones que involucran tres o ms dedos, las patas o la cabeza fueron menos comunes en aves con lesiones curadas que en aquellas con lesiones activas. Esto sugiere que ese tipo de lesiones causaron mortalidad con mayor frecuencia. La resistencia a la enfermedad puede estar evolucionando en aves de algunas reas, pero las poblaciones de C s. ibidis en O'ahu probablemente seguirn disminuyendo. 
10.2307/1370186|Recently increasing populations of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) in Newfoundland were food stressed by the late arrival of capelin (Mallotus villosus), the main prey fed to chicks, to inshore waters in 1992-1993. Our purpose was to determine how this food shortage would affect inter-habitat differences in breeding performance on Great Island, Newfoundland. A previous study comparing breeding success among rocky, puffin, and meadow habitats identified rocky as the preferred habitat and provided equivocal support for an ideal-free distribution. We predicted that food stress would accentuate differences between birds assorted by competitive ability and result in higher breeding success for pairs nesting in preferred habitat, as predicted by ideal-despotic and phenotype-limited ideal-free habitat selection models. Responses to food shortage included later hatching, smaller clutches, and reduced hatching and fledging success. Arrival of capelin four weeks after hatching began resulted in an advantage for late-hatched chicks and a reversal of the typical positive relationship between breeding success and large, early laid clutches. Higher and buffered nest density, and a greater proportion of pairs laying eggs indicated that rocky was still the preferred habitat. However, breeding success was as high or, more frequently, higher in other habitats in this and previous studies, contrary to predictions of habitat selection models. That rocky was the original nesting habitat on Great Island suggests an ultimate, probably genetic, component to habitat selection by Herring Gulls, which, in the absence of consistent trends in habitat suitability, may have maintained the preference for rocky habitat.
1370667| The basal metabolic rate (BMR) of Old World long-distance-migrant shorebirds has been found to vary along their migration route. On average, BMR is highest in the Arctic at the start of fall migration, intermediate at temperate latitudes, and lowest on the tropical wintering grounds. As a test of the generality of this pattern, we measured the BMR of one adult and 44 juvenile shorebirds of 10 species (1-18 individuals of each species, body-mass range 19-94 g) during the first part of their southward migration in the Canadian Arctic (68-76N). The interspecific relationship between BMR and body mass was almost identical to that found for juvenile shorebirds in the Eurasian Arctic (5 species), although only one species appeared in both data sets. We conclude that high BMR of shorebirds in the Arctic is a circumpolar phenomenon. The most likely explanation is that the high BMR reflects physiological adaptations to low ambient temperatures. Whether the BMR of New World shorebirds drops during southward migration remains to be investigated. Se ha encontrado que la tasa metablica basal (TMB) de las aves playeras migratorias de larga distancia vara a lo largo de sus rutas de migracin en el viejo mundo. En promedio, la TMB es mxima al comienzo de la migracin otoal en el rtico, intermedia en latitudes templadas y mnima en las reas tropicales de invernada. Para poner a prueba la generalidad de este patrn, medimos la TMB de un individuo adulto y 44 juveniles de diez especies de aves playeras (1-18 individuos de cada especie, rango de peso corporal 19-94 g) durante la primera parte de su migracin hacia el sur en el rtico canadiense (68-76N). La relacin interespecfica entre la TMB y el peso corporal fue casi idntica a la que se haba encontrado en juveniles de 5 especies de aves playeras en el rtico de Eurasia, aunque slo una especie fue considerada en ambos estudios. Concluimos que la alta TMB de las aves playeras en el rtico representa un fenmeno circumpolar. La explicacin ms probable es que las altas TMBs reflejan adaptaciones fisiolgicas a ambientes de bajas temperaturas. An no se ha investigado si las TMBs de las aves playeras del nuevo mundo disminuyen durante la migracin hacia el sur. 
10.2307/1368801|There are three, not two, sibling antthrushes of the genus Chamaeza (Formicariidae) in eastern Brazil. One is the short-tailed, large, pale-billed, lower montane C. campanisona, with a spotted throat, dark forehead, and a long song ending in several grunts. The second is the long-tailed, small, dark-billed, montane and southern C. ruficauda, with barred undertail coverts and a short upscale song. The third is medium-tailed, small, dark-billed, midmontane, with a long upscale song like that of midmontane so-called "ruficauda" in Colombia and Venezuela. This northern group is like the third Brazilian species in proportions but not in coloration, so is considered to be the separate species C. turdina. The third Brazilian bird is probably C. meruloides Vigors 1825, based on an 1826 color plate; type specimens were sold at auction and have disappeared. It has a reddish crown and olive-brown back as in C. campanisona but reddish forehead and tail as in C. ruficauda; the throat is unspotted but the rest of the underparts are as in C. campanisona. C. meruloides and C. turdina form a vocally similar superspecies.
10.2307/1367886|Forster's Terns (Sterna forsteri) hatch out at the large end of the egg and "peep" before hatching. The mean number of days between laying and commencement of hatching is 24.2. The breaking period varies from one to five days, longer periods involving mainly the Early Pip stage. Subsequent stages occur in less than one day. Eggs within a clutch generally hatch within one day of each other and in the order laid. In small groups of nests, hatching appears to be more closely synchronized than the onset of laying. Chicks have both upper and lower mandible egg-teeth, but lose them within five days after hatching.
10.2307/1369144|To understand low production of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater ater) by a large host, Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), we compared that production with that of three small hosts: Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia), Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina), and Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia). Cowbirds were present in only 11 of 63 broods fledged by cardinals but in 62 of 93 broods fledged by other hosts (P < 0.001). Notably, neither the frequency of parasitized nests nor the number of cowbird eggs per parasitized nest varied significantly among the hosts. Unusual features of cardinals as hosts accounted for the low production of cowbirds by cardinals. First, cardinal eggs were about 50% larger than cowbird eggs. Many cowbird eggs, as well as cardinal eggs, disappeared from nests, which remained active. Second, the incubation period of cardinals was short, only about 10 h longer than for cowbird eggs. Third, cardinal clutches were small (mode = 3 eggs). Many cowbird eggs were laid after incubation had begun. These features combined to produce great differences in body masses of young cardinals and cowbirds, even when cowbirds hatched first. Differences were accentuated when cowbirds hatched after cardinals. Competition in mixed broods often resulted in underweight cowbirds, which usually died before or soon after fledging. Cowbirds reared without cardinal nestmates grew well and usually fledged and survived well. Finally, interbrood intervals were much longer for cardinals than for Song and Chipping Sparrows. Cardinals had the lowest number of successful broods per host-pair. Cowbirds thrived when reared by cardinals in broods with only one or no cardinal nestmates. We suggest that host brood-reduction enables cowbirds to exploit large hosts, particularly when the host-incubation period is short.
10.1525/cond.2012.120020|In the arid Southwest, migratory birds are known to use riparian stopover habitats; we know less about how migrants use other habitat types during migratory stopover. Using radar data and satellite land-cover data, we determined the habitats with which birds are associated during migration stopover. Bird densities differed significantly by habitat type at all sites in at least one season. In parts of Arizona and New Mexico upland forest supported high densities of migrants, especially in fall. Developed habitat, in areas with little upland forest, also supported high densities of migrants. Scrub/shrub and grassland habitats supported low to intermediate densities, but because these habitat types dominate the Southwestern landscape, they may provide stopover habitat for larger numbers of migratory birds than previously recognized. These results are complicated by continuing challenges related to target identity (i.e., distinguishing among birds, arthropods and bats). Our results suggest that it is too simplistic to (1) consider the arid West as a largely inhospitable landscape in which there are only relatively small oases of habitat that provide the resources needed by all migrants, (2) think of western riparian and upland forests as supporting the majority of migrants in all cases, and (3) consider a particular habitat unimportant for stopover solely on the basis of low densities of migrants.
1370356| This study asked whether parent House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) in a Wyoming population increased rates of food delivery to broods parasitized by hematophagous blow fly larvae and mites. We observed no significant difference in rates at which pairs fed nestlings at nests with naturally heavy infestations of fly larvae (6-19 larvae per nestling) and nests in which nestling exposure to larvae was experimentally eliminated or severely reduced (0-2 larvae per nestling). The apparent failure of parents to compensate nestlings for resources lost to parasites may, in part, explain the reduced rates of mass gain by parasitized nestlings that we observed and the presence of reduced hemoglobin levels in parasitized nestlings documented in a companion study. Parasitized nestlings may be too weak or anemic to intensify begging activity which would alert parents to their increased need for food. /// Nos preguntamos si los individuos parentales de Troglodytes aedon de una poblacin de Wyoming aumentan las tasas de alimentacin sobre polluelos parasitados por caros y larvas de moscas hematfagas. No observamos diferencias significativas en la tasa a la cual las parejas alimentaron a los polluelos entre nidos altamente infectados naturalmente por la larva de la mosca (6-19 larvas por polluelo) y nidos en que la exposicin a las larvas fue eliminada o severamente reducida experimentalmente (0-2 larvas por polluelo). En parte, la aparente falta de compensacin por parte de los padres sobre la prdida de recursos de los polluelos infectados puede explicar sus bajas tasas de ganancia de peso y los niveles reducidos de hemoglobina documentados en un estudio asociado al presente. Los polluelos parasitados probablemente se encuentran muy dbiles o anmicos como para intensificar la actividad de reclamo lo que alertara a los padres sobre su mayor necesidad de alimento. 
10.1525/cond.2012.100197|Social information in the form of songs, calls, or other overt behaviors may assist birds in assessing the quality of potential breeding habitat by providing direct public information about a site's quality or by providing indirect cues (e.g., the presence of conspecifics) that may be used to infer its quality. Broadcast of song has been used to demonstrate the influence of conspecific cues on the decisions of migratory passerines to settle; however, there is currently a dearth of information regarding resident species. We tested the influence of conspecific attraction and the effectiveness of song playback on an endangered resident of grassland, the Cape Sable Seaside Sparrow (
4096528| A recent summary of raptor migration count data concluded that the status of Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) in western North America warranted concern (Hoffman and Smith 2003). Our analysis of these data did not lead us to the same conclusion. We have three specific concerns. First, the regional characterizations of eagle migration in Hoffman and Smith (2003) are based on a very small sample of sites. Therefore, we recommend that these characterizations be considered as hypothetical in nature. Second, we suggest that the population cycles and patterns of age-specific population change described by Hoffman and Smith (2003) are neither as general nor as clear-cut as they indicated. Finally, although the authors expressed concern about the status of Golden Eagles based upon both their findings and data from other sources, we did not find compelling evidence for population declines in our inspection of those same data. /// Un resumen de los datos de conteos de migracin de rapaces realizado recientemente concluy que el estatus de Aquila chrysaetos en el oeste de Norte Amrica es preocupante (Hoffman y Smith 2003). Nuestro anlisis de los mismos datos no nos llev a la misma conclusin, y tenemos tres inquietudes especficas. Primero, las caracterizaciones regionales de la migracin de las guilas en Hoffman y Smith (2003) estn basadas en una muestra de sitios muy pequea. Por tanto, recomendamos que dichas caracterizaciones se consideren hipotticas. Segundo, sugerimos que los ciclos poblacionales y los patrones de cambio poblacional edad-especficos descritos por Hoffman y Smith (2003) no son tan generales ni tan claros como ellos lo indicaron. Finalente, aunque los autores se manifestaron preocupados por el estatus de A. chrysaetos basndose en sus hallazgos y en datos de otras fuentes, al inspeccionar los mismos datos nosotros no encontramos evidencia contundente de que existan tales disminuciones poblacionales. 
10.2307/1367464|A study of the social behavior of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in 1974 and 1975 suggests that in prairie communities the predominant mating behavior is promiscuous. Individually marked cowbirds of both sexes were observed copulating with more than one individual, suggesting that long-term pair bonds were non-existent. On the study area cowbirds parasitized three ground-nesting species and foraged among grazing cattle. Thus, cowbirds bred and fed in the same area. Since the cowbirds foraged with grazing cattle, the latter became a "moving resource." It is hypothesized that this situation selects against the evolution of territorial behavior, and for the evolution of promiscuity.
10.2307/1368729|The prevalence of lead in Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) occurring within the recent historical range of the California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus) was determined by analyzing blood samples from 162 Golden Eagles captured between June 1985 and December 1986 at three sites. We found no significant differences between sex and age classes in blood lead levels nor were there differences between residents and migrants. Significant differences were found between months with the highest blood lead levels occurring during the fall/winter period. Approximately one-third (35.8%) of the Golden Eagle population sampled had elevated blood lead levels, values similar to those reported for free-flying California Condors. Given this rate of exposure, if the proposed releases of California Condors back to the wild are to succeed, whether in their former range or elsewhere, any potential for lead poisoning must be reduced. It is essential that we identify the sources of the lead, the seasonal and geographic distribution of these sources, and develop management strategies to reduce or eliminate the hazard.
40306206|We studied the nesting of the Louisiana Waterthrush (
10.2307/1370272|Growth rate in geese is sensitive to the feeding conditions during the brood-rearing period, and late-hatched goslings grow at a lower rate than early-hatched ones. We examine how the seasonal decline in food supply affected the development of body components of late-hatched and early-hatched goslings in male and female Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica). We collected and autopsied 48 early-hatched (EH, mean age at capture = 42.4 days) and 48 late-hatched goslings (LH, mean age = 34.8 days), divided equally among sexes, near fledging at four different sites on Bylot Island, Northwest Territories. After statistically adjusting for differences in body size between the two groups, EH goslings had more body protein than LH ones. However, the development of all organs was not affected equally. The mass of most supplying organs (the food acquisition apparatus: legs, esophagus, intestine, and liver), which develop early during growth, was similar between EH and LH goslings. In contrast, LH goslings had much smaller breast muscles than EH goslings, even after adjusting for size differences. Body fat was very low and similar in both groups. Body mass, body protein, intestine, and breast muscles showed a sexual dimorphism favoring males in EH, but not in LH, goslings. These results show that poor feeding conditions encountered by LH goslings disproportionately affected late-developing organs compared to early-developing ones, and males compared to females. Differences in organ development could reflect an adaptive response to reduced food availability. Prioritizing the development of supplying organs at the expense of other organs when food availability is low could help goslings maintain a high nutrient intake.
4122543| Using a commercially available testosterone enzyme immunoassay (EIA), we developed and validated an assay procedure for determining testosterone levels in small-volume (20 L) avian plasma samples. We evaluated this EIA's utility by measuring plasma testosterone levels in Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura), White-eyed Vireos (Vireo griseus), Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus), and Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea). Standard biochemical validations (e.g., parallelism, recovery of exogenous testosterone) demonstrated that the assay accurately and precisely measured testosterone in avian plasma. We compared plasma testosterone levels in males and females of all four species and Indigo Buntings in various reproductive stages to physiologically validate the assay's ability to determine biologically important changes in testosterone levels. Plasma testosterone levels were higher in males compared to females in three of four species. Prebreeding and breeding male Indigo Buntings had higher circulating testosterone levels than postbreeding males. Testosterone levels in our study were similar to reported values for other passerine species using radioimmunoassay procedures. Our results suggest that this EIA procedure is very effective for determining testosterone levels in small-volume avian plasma samples and is sensitive enough to detect biologically important changes in the gonadal activity of birds. Thus, this assay has considerable utility for measuring testosterone in small birds (<15 g), from which only small volumes of plasma (20 L) can be collected. /// Empleando un inmunoensayo enzimtico de testosterona disponible comercialmente, desarrollamos y validamos un procedimiento para determinar los niveles de testosterona en volmenes pequeos (20 L) de muestras de plasma de aves. Evaluamos la utilidad de este procedimiento midiendo los niveles plasmticos de testosterona en Zenaida macroura, Vireo griseus, Vireo olivaceus y Passerina cyanea. Validaciones bioqumicas estndar (e.g., paralelismo, recuperacin de testosterona exgena) demostraron que el ensayo mide la testosterona plasmtica con exactitud y precisin. Para validar fisiolgicamente la habilidad del ensayo para detectar cambios biolgicamente importantes en los niveles de testosterona, comparamos los niveles plasmticos de testosterona entre machos y hembras de las cuatro especies y entre varios estados reproductivos de P. cyanea. Los niveles plasmticos de testosterona fueron mayores en los machos que en las hembras en tres de las cuatro especies. Los individuos pre-reproductivos y los machos reproductivos de P. cyanea presentaron niveles circulantes de testosterona mayores que los machos post-reproductivos. Los niveles de testosterona documentados por nuestro estudio fueron similares a los reportados para otras especies de aves paserinas mediante radioinmunoensayos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el inmunoensayo enzimtico de testosterona es un procedimiento muy efectivo para determinar los niveles de testosterona en las aves a partir de muestras de plasma de volumen pequeo, y que ste es lo suficientemente sensible como para detectar cambios biolgicamente importantes en la actividad de las gnadas de las aves. Por lo tanto, este ensayo presenta una utilidad considerable para medir la testosterona en aves pequeas (<15 g), para las cuales slo pueden colectarse volmenes pequeos de plasma (20 L). 
10.2307/1368106|We have documented structure on two different scales for the Dunlin (Calidris alpina) population wintering at Bodega Bay, California in 1986-1987. Within a night roost, significantly more juvenile birds were captured at the center vs. periphery between October and December. In addition, there was a significant difference in the mean size of birds among areas of the roost during November, with birds at the center being largest. Structure also developed during the winter on a scale which separated the entire population at Bodega Harbor into two groups. In late winter, large numbers of Dunlins left the area late in the day and returned in early morning, apparently roosting elsewhere. As a result, the number of Dunlins at the night roost declined in winter much more than the daytime population size at Bodega Bay. These roughly crepuscular movements were not evident earlier, in the fall, and did not correspond closely to tidal cycles. The resultant fragmentation of the population into "resident" and "mobile" groups was reflected in physiological differences between groups. Those birds which remained in the harbor day and night (residents) weighed less, had lower amounts of body fat, and were delayed in molt schedule in March relative to (mobile) birds which left at night. While the ecological significance of structure on both scales remains unknown, evidence from this and previous studies suggests that it may be a relatively common phenomenon with important implications for studies of avian populations.
10.2307/1368343| Plasma androgen levels (1981) and body weights (1980 and 1981) were determined weekly between April and September for breeding and nonbreeding captive male American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) paired with females. Irrespective of breeding group, males exhibited comparable values for and weekly changes (P < 0.01) in both characteristics, although androgen levels appeared to decrease later and more abruptly in the spring for breeding males than for nonbreeding males. Mean ( SE) androgen levels were maximal (2.73  0.76 ng/ml) in April and May, decreased to minimal values (0.30  0.05 ng/ml) by the second week of June, and remained relatively low through the end of September. Relative to the nesting stages, androgen levels for the breeding males peaked during both courtship stages and decreased (P < 0.05) to near minimum values the first week the second clutch was incubated. Androgen peaks were not different (P > 0.10) from each other. The difference (P < 0.01) between maximal (April, May, and September) and minimal (June, July, and August) body weights of males averaged 19%. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120091|Migratory birds are expected to experience a trade-off between reproductive effort, the timing and pace of molt, and initiation of fall migration. The purpose of this study was to investigate if males and females of a songbird that migrates to the neotropics, the Wood Thrush (
10.2307/1369220|An examination of 28 years of banding data from Powdermill Nature Reserve in southwestern Pennsylvania showed the following trends in the sex ratio (female: male) of Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris): 1.1:1 for immature hummingbirds caught in late summer and fall; 1.4:1 for adults in spring (April-May); 3.1:1 for adults in summer (June-7 August); and 4.1:1 for adults in fall (8 August-October). Hypotheses to explain these increasingly female-biased sex ratios include differential migration, capture bias and differential mortality. Banding data from eight other stations in eastern North America provided no evidence of different fall migration routes for males and females. We detected no capture bias at Powdermill, with respect to mesh size of mist nets, net wariness or net avoidance ability, but there was seasonal variation in the number of overlapping captures of males and females at individual mist nets: spring (81.5%); summer (27.6%); fall (44.7%). A capture bias resulting from differences between the sexes in the use of habitats sampled by our mist nets has likely contributed to observed sex ratio variation. Differential mortality, with males suffering greater losses than females, probably also contributed to this variation. Estimated annual survivorship calculated from returns of banded hummingbirds to Powdermill was lower for males (0.294) than females (0.446), but this difference was not significant. The mean minimum known age for returning male hummingbirds at Powdermill was significantly less than that for females; furthermore, the oldest known age for a returning male (three years) was half that observed for a female. The lower inferred survivorship for males may be related to reversed sexual size dimorphism in this species. The body mass of female Ruby-throated Hummingbirds was significantly greater than that of males and did not vary between May and August, whereas males weighed significantly less in June and July than they did in May and August. Low mid-summer mass in males, coupled with increased metabolic demands during the breeding season, may lead to a fatal "energy crisis" in this sex during nocturnal fasting or periods of inclement weather.
10.2307/1369961|In an aviary study, each of six male European Nuthatches Sitta europaea was allowed to hoard 30 sunflower seeds in natural hoarding substrates. After eight days, each bird was allowed to search for its cached seeds and its performance compared with that of a bird without previous experience of the specific aviary. In all but one case, the hoarder found significantly more seeds than did the naive bird and the hoarder also found the first seed significantly sooner. Furthermore, hoarders found a fixed number of seeds more quickly than did naive birds. These results suggest memory of cache sites.
10.2307/1370488|We analyzed five different types of food samples from Audouin's Gull (Larus audouinii), collected during the breeding seasons of 1994 and 1995 at its two main breeding colonies, the Ebro Delta and the Chafarinas Islands. These food samples included spontaneous regurgitates, dry boli containing partially digested food, food remains, pellets, and prey identified during direct observations of chick provisioning. We compared estimates of biomass, levels of taxonomic determination allowed by each kind of food sample, and the associated potential biases to assess which sampling method provides the best estimate of diet in gulls. Regurgitates allowed identification of most prey to species level and reliable biomass estimates, but their collection was time-consuming and invasive. Dry boli provided almost the same information as regurgitates at order level and were easy to collect. However, both underestimated soft-bodied prey and prey with large, hard parts. Food remains provided an estimate of diet composition that was highly biased towards prey with large distinctive hard parts. However, food remains were a good complement to dry boli, enhancing biomass estimates for food items that had a good relationship of weight and linear measurements of prey hard parts. Direct observation allowed identification of prey only to upper taxonomic categories, and is useful when only a broad categorization of prey types is required. Pellets showed important biases towards fish with robust otoliths, and inaccurate conversion to biomass, but they can be useful for monitoring variations in the consumption of certain prey items. Several factors such as time spent collecting, sample availability, disturbance to animals, and the status of the species studied need to be considered when deciding on a method of diet assessment sampling.
10.1525/cond.2013.110202|The Connecticut Warbler (
10.2307/1368561|Patterns of parental investment were studied in Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) during the summer of 1984 at a colony on Kent Island, New Brunswick. Egg loss, egg mass, chick mass, and tarsometatarsus length of chicks at hatch were recorded for three-(C3) and two-egg clutches (C2). In C3 clutches C-eggs were significantly lighter than A- and B-eggs, and in C2 clutches B-eggs were significantly lighter than A-eggs. B-eggs in C3 clutches were significantly heavier than C2 B-eggs. Egg loss was greatest in C2 clutches. A- and B-chicks hatched significantly heavier, and survived significantly longer than C-chicks. In C2 broods A-chicks hatched significantly heavier than B-chicks, but both chicks had similar average survivorship probabilities/day (ASP/D). A- and B-chicks and C3 broods had significantly higher ASP/D compared to the C-chick. Only the A-chick in C3 broods exhibited a significant correlation between mass at hatching and survivorship. A significant correlation of tarsometatarsus length at hatch with survivorship was observed for C-chicks. These results suggest that parental investment patterns vary with clutch size and clutch mass.
10.2307/1367223|The forelimb muscles of several species of the kingbird group are here described and illustrated, with the goal of discovering character states of use in delineating clades within the Tyrannidae. These muscles conform in all species to the oscine pattern as described by other authors, with the exception of a few features. Special attention is given to M. latissimus dorsi caudalis, the only muscle that varies widely among, as well as within, the species examined. Absence of this muscle in the species of Myiozetetes could mean that this group is a clade. Variation in other tyrannids, however, indicates that closely related species may be losing M. latissimus dorsi caudalis independently.
10.2307/1369464|In male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus), the extent and color of plumage varies depending on access to carotenoid pigments. "Colorful" males exhibit extensive red pigmentation, while less colorful (i.e., "drab") males exhibit carotenoid pigmentation over a smaller percentage of their plumage, pigmentation of a color besides red (e.g., yellow, gold, orange, or pink), or both. One explanation for maintenance of plumage variation is that it reliably reflects social status, allowing males to correctly assess their status in relation to others and avoid or minimize costly fights. Social relationships may also be related to endogenous factors, such as circulating levels of the hormones testosterone and corticosterone. High levels of testosterone may promote or facilitate increased aggression, and stress associated with receiving aggression from individuals of higher status may increase adrenal activity and secretion of corticosterone. We examined the relationship between plumage variability, steroid hormones, and social status in captive male House Finches during the non-breeding period in: (1) groups of males in which individuals varied by age, size, and plumage, and (2) pairs (dyads) of males matched for several measurable parameters except plumage. Testosterone and social status were not related in males competing in either groups or dyads, and levels of testosterone were routinely low. Corticosterone and status were not related in groups but, in dyads where subordinate individuals had little chance of escaping aggression from more dominant birds, subordinates exhibited significantly greater levels of corticosterone. Although drab males tended to achieve higher status than colorful males in both experiments, which is consistent with previous studies on free-living individuals, we could not reject the null hypothesis that plumage and status were unrelated. We conclude that dominance relationships among male House Finches during the non-breeding season may not be related to testosterone, but they are reflected by levels of corticosterone in some circumstances. Additionally, colorful plumage appears to be a poor predictor of high social status among male House Finches during the non-breeding season.
3247755| We conducted a study of the breeding biology of the Thorn-tailed Rayadito (Aphrastura spinicauda) in secondary forests on the continental island of Chilo (42 S), southern Chile. Rayaditos are small insectivorous furnariids inhabiting the south-temperate forests of Chile and Argentina. We followed the reproduction of rayadito pairs breeding in nest-boxes. Rayaditos build their nests mainly of rhizomes and stems of epiphytic vines, grasses, and hairs during periods of at least a week, and show a marked population asynchrony in laying dates of more than two months (October-December). Rayaditos lay clutches of 3-6 eggs with a mode of 4 and laying occurs on alternate days. Eggs are 50% larger and hatchlings are 30% larger than expected from allometric equations. Most broods hatch synchronously. Nestling growth curves adjust well to logistic functions and at 2 weeks nestlings attain masses similar to asymptotic values. Nestling growth, which occurs over 3 weeks, is 27% slower than expected from allometry. Fledglings attain adult size with respect to tarsus length, but have less developed plumage and higher body mass than adults. Rayaditos exhibit clutch and brood reduction, suggesting possible food limitation. The protracted breeding periods may preclude second breeding attempts for most pairs in Chilo. There is evidence for declines in parental quality with season. The low seasonal fecundity, large eggs, and prolonged dependence periods of a truly south-temperate species like the Thorn-tailed Rayadito reflect a 'slow' life history similar to that of tropical passerines. /// Realizamos un estudio de la biologa reproductiva del Rayadito Aphrastura spinicauda en bosques secundarios de la isla continental de Chilo (42 S), sur de Chile. Este pequeo furnrido insectvoro habita los bosques templados meridionales de Chile y Argentina. Seguimos las actividades reproductivas de parejas de rayaditos que utilizaron cajas artificiales para nidificar. Los rayaditos construyen sus nidos utilizando rizomas, hierbas y pelo durante perodos de al menos una semana, y muestran una marcada asincrona a nivel de poblacin de ms de dos meses (octubre a diciembre) en el inicio de la puesta. Las puestas incluyen de 3 a 6 huevos, con un tamao modal de 4 huevos, los cuales son puestos en das alternos. Los huevos son 50% ms grandes y los polluelos recin eclosionados 30% ms grandes de lo esperado segn ecuaciones alomtricas. La mayora de las nidadas eclosionan sincrnicamente. Las curvas de crecimiento se ajustan bien a funciones logsticas y el peso alcanza valores asintticos a las dos semanas. El crecimiento de los polluelos, que ocurre durante un perodo de permanencia en el nido de tres semanas, es un 27% ms lento de lo esperado por alometra. Los volantones alcanzan el tamao adulto con respecto a la longitud de tarso, pero presentan un plumaje menos desarrollado y un mayor peso que los adultos. Esta especie presenta casos de reduccin de la puesta o de la nidada, lo que sugiere posibles limitaciones en la disponibilidad de alimentos. Los prolongados perodos de reproduccin pueden impedir el inicio de segundas puestas en Chilo. Hay evidencia de disminuciones estacionales en la calidad parental. La baja fecundidad anual, el gran tamao de los huevos y el prolongado periodo de crecimiento del Rayadito refleja una historia de vida 'lenta' similar a la de paseriformes tropicales. 
4151056| We studied the Azure-winged Magpie's (Cyanopica cyanus) breeding performance and cooperative breeding system in two consecutive breeding seasons with varying climate conditions. We found a strong year effect on most breeding parameters. Helpers were more frequent in the year with more severe weather conditions, and helper presence significantly increased provisioning rates and breeding success of the breeders. Some of the helpers were adults that had failed on a previous breeding attempt, while others were offspring of the breeding pair from the previous season. We suggest that helping in this species is a "best-of-a-bad-job" strategy, in which individuals facing a breeding attempt with low prospects of success, or with high costs associated, assist others. /// Estudiamos el xito reproductivo y el sistema de cra cooperativa en Cyanopica cyanus en dos perfodos reproductivos consecutivos con condiciones climticas muy diferentes. Encontramos un fuerte efecto del aflo en la mayora de los pardmetros reproductivos. Los ayudantes fueron mds frecuentes durante el ao con peores condiciones climatolgicas, y su presencia aument significativamente las tasas de ceba y el xito reproductivo de las parejas. Algunos de los ayudantes eran adultos que hablan fracasado en un intento de reproduccin anterior, mientras que otros eran hijos de la pareja reproductora nacidos el ao anterior. Sugerimos que el comportamiento de ayudar en esta especie representa una estrategia de "dentro de lo malo, lo mejor", en la cual algunos individuos en lugar de realizar un intento de reproduccin con pocas probabilidades de xito o muy costoso, se dedican a ayudar a otros. 
10.1525/cond.2012.100163|Despite high raptor diversity and species of conservation importance, little is known about the structuring of raptor communities in tropical regions. We examined diversity across land uses, spatial-niche overlap among species, community structure, and relationships between abundance and niche position/width of diurnal raptors in Peru. Between April and December in 2008 and 2009, we surveyed raptors by distance sampling along transects, and recorded associated habitat data, in 70 randomly selected plots of 1 km
10.2307/1369354|I studied variables affecting size of hunting range in breeding Merlins (Falco columbarius) from May to July, 1987-1990 in Saskatoon, Canada. Males were monitored during most of the breeding season, whereas females were observed only in the fledging period when they hunt. During the incubation period, the abundance of total prey birds (<100 g) and House Sparrows (Passer domesticus, the primary prey) was negatively correlated with hunting range size of males whereas in the nestling period, only total bird abundance was negatively correlated with the hunting range size. Most males changed their range sizes from the incubation to nestling period inversely with changes in prey abundance on their ranges. For females, both body mass and House Sparrow abundance were negatively correlated with hunting range size. I found no significant effect of clutch/brood size and intruder density on hunting range size of Merlins. Similarly, no clear seasonal pattern emerged in the size of hunting ranges of males.
10.1525/cond.2013.120163|Large-scale disturbances, by affecting habitat suitability, can influence bird populations and communities. Although we know that disturbances can lead to population decreases and shifts in community structure, our understanding of finer-scaled mechanisms leading to these patterns is limited. We focused on why some territories remain occupied by a species following a large-scale disturbance, while others are abandoned. The Swainsons Warbler (
40306210|Wildfire and conversion of sagebrush (
10.2307/1369431|Breeding ecology of Long-billed Curlews (Numenius americanus) in north-central Oregon was studied during spring and summer, 1978-1979. Five habitats were used by territorial curlews, and habitat selection by adults with and without broods was studied. Both adults and adults with broods used habitats significantly different from availability. A preference for habitats of low vertical profile and low vertical density (plant parts/volume/height) was observed; habitats with tall, dense shrubs or weedy annual vegetation were generally avoided. Nest density varied from 0-9 nests/40 ha. Highest nest density occurred in cheatgrass habitats. Nest success as computed by the Mayfield method was 0.69 in 1978 (n = 40) and 0.65 in 1979 (n = 61). Predators destroyed 10 (4) and 16% (10) of the nests in 1978 and 1979, respectively. Eight of 14 (57%) nests over both years were destroyed by mammalian predators; at least three (21%) were taken by crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) or magpies (Pica pica). Nest predation rate was significantly lower in annual grass habitats. Differences between nest sites and randomly selected habitats were related to vertical stratification of vegetation. Vegetative cover was important in only the bunchgrass habitat. Overall, nest sites were less complex above 5 cm than surrounding areas. Significant differences in nest-site structure between habitats were observed for five of six paired comparisons, indicating some plasticity in nest-site selection by breeding curlews.
10.2307/1368182|Diets of Tufted Puffin (Fratercula cirrhata) chicks and breeding and nonbreeding adults were compared between two years during the breeding season at Kodiak Island, Alaska. Fish dominated the diet of all groups. Nonbreeders ate more invertebrates than did breeders, and chicks were fed the lowest proportion of invertebrates of any group. Nonbreeders consumed more pelagic prey (e.g., cephalopods, euphausiids), than did breeders, which ate more inshore prey (osmerids, ammodytids). Chicks were fed the largest prey and prey with highest protein and energy values. These data are consistent with central place foraging and optimal foraging theory.
10.2307/1368342|I observed 50 cases of male Northern Orioles (Icterus galbula) intruding on other males' territories. In 23 of 50 cases, the intrusion led to an extra-pair courtship or chase. Three of these intrusions resulted in extra-pair copulation. Intrusions were significantly more likely during the female's fertilizable period (during egg laying and up to 5 days before the first egg was laid). Intrusions occurred at the same time in the nesting cycle as pair copulations and both peaked during early morning hours. Both yearling and adult males intruded, but only adult males engaged in extra-pair copulation. In all cases where the intruding male was identified by color bands, he was a paired male from a territory 110 m to 280 m away from the target female's nest. Five unbanded intruders came from more than 200 m away. All but one female ignored or flew away from males performing extra-pair courtship. Most females gave loud calls when fleeing from intruders attempting extra-pair copulation; in two cases females were driven to the ground and mounted. Paired males showed three types of mate association when females were fertilizable: (1) "consorting," accompanying their mate when they left the territory to forage or gather nesting material; (2) "driving," when females moved close to neighboring males and were chased back into the territory; and (3) rapid pair copulation. The last behavior was observed only during song playback experiments that may have been perceived by resident males as territorial intrusions.
10.2307/1368487|Sixty Screaming Cowbirds (Molothrus rufoaxillaris) and 150 Shiny Cowbirds (M. bonariensis) were trapped and banded in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Analysis of recaptures provided statistical evidence for pair formation in Screaming but not Shiny cowbirds, a result supported by observations of free-living birds. Pairs of Screaming Cowbirds were stable throughout the breeding season. They are probably monogamous. Shiny Cowbirds showed no pattern of association between the sexes. This is consistent with a promiscuous mating system, although this conclusion is tentative. I also present ancillary data on sexual size dimorphism, sex ratio, and related aspects of behavior. Both species are dimorphic in size to a similar extent, although the Screaming Cowbird is slightly larger. Neither species departs from an adult (quaternary) sex ratio of unity. Pairs of Screaming Cowbirds are conspicuous near host nests. Female Shiny Cowbirds are not accompanied by males at nests, but may be accompanied by other females. Shiny Cowbird females were surreptitious near nests. Differences in host selection behavior may have profound effects on other aspects of the species breeding biology.
10.2307/1367058|Fourteen known and three probable nests of Kittlitz's Murrelet (Brachyramphus brevirostris) and eight known and one probable nest of Marbled Murrelet (B. marmoratus) have been reported. Nests of Kittlitz's Murrelet tend to be at higher elevations and farther inland than those of Marbled Murrelet. Kittlitz's nests have much less vegetative cover than Marbled nests. Nests of both species are generally a short distance below a peak or ridge, Kittlitz's on the ground and Marbled either in a tree or on the ground. The eggs of the two species are similar in color and their mean dimensions are not separable statistically. Our findings support the idea that Kittlitz's fledglings commonly get to the sea by way of streams.
1369819| We compared foraging-trip duration of Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) carrying various combinations of radio-telemetry transmitters, implanted, passively interrogated transponder (PIT) tags, and time-depth recorders at two widely separated colonies of different size on Ross Island, Antarctica, during three austral summers. Trip duration was measured by electronic devices rather than human observation. Instrumentation had no significant effect on foraging trip duration. Most of the variation in foraging trip duration was attributed to individual and year. Males' trips were significantly shorter than females' in a subset of known-sex birds. No effect was evident in nesting success even for birds that wore instruments for >20 days. We recommend use of small, hydrodynamically designed and placed instruments to researchers who wish to collect data unaffected by instrument attachment. /// Se compar la duracin de las salidas de bsqueda de alimento de Pygoscelis adeliae a los que se les colocaron distintas combinaciones de radiotransmisores, emisores implantados de interrogacin pasiva y medidores de tiempo y profundidad de buceo. El estudio fue realizado durante tres veranos australes en dos colonias ampliamente separadas de diferente tamao en Ross Island, Antrtica. La duracin de las salidas fue medida por instrumentos electrnicos en lugar de observaciones humanas. Los instrumentos no tuvieron un efecto significativo en la duracin de las salidas de bsqueda de alimento. La mayor parte de la variacin en la duracin de las salidas fue atribuida a individuos y aos. Las salidas de los machos fueron significativamente ms cortas que las de las hembras en una sub-muestra de aves previamente sexadas. No se detectaron efectos evidentes en xito de nidificacin incluso en individuos que llevaron instrumentos por ms de 20 das. Recomendamos el uso de instrumentos pequeos diseados y colocados hidrodinmicamente a fin de no influenciar los datos colectados. 
10.2307/1368608|From 1983-1987 we studied the breeding behavior of Evening Grosbeaks (Coccothraustes vespertinus) living in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. These birds were typically monogamous; at only one of 64 nests (1.6%) was polygny documented. Reproductive behaviors performed by adult males and females were first analyzed across all mating seasons and then with respect to five consecutive nest stages (build/egg laying, incubate, brood, brood/fledge, fledge) and the outcome (success or failure) of individual nests. Adult males and females contributed unequally to the ten most frequently observed behaviors; half were performed almost exclusively by one or the other sex. Males typically fed and protected their mates and what we presumed to be their young; whereas females usually built the nest, incubated, brooded, and also fed their young. Feeding, soft calling from the perch, and fecal removal were performed relatively equally by adult males and females. The success or failure of nests was not associated with patterns of parental behavior. Our results indicate that Evening Grosbeaks formed a partnership in which they divided the effort involved in nest preparation and raising the young at the high altitude where this population was observed.
10.2307/1369609|Most seabirds breed in colonies on offshore islands, but throughout most of their range from California to Alaska Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) fly inland to nest on trees in old-growth coniferous forests. Some fraction of the murrelet population nests on the ground in Alaska. The relative distribution and abundance of murrelets in forested and treeless areas of Alaska is poorly known. We analyzed data on seabird abundance at sea and on colonies in Alaska that were obtained under the Outer Continental Shelf Environmental Assessment Program during the 1970s and 1980s. Whereas most seabirds may be censused at breeding colonies, murrelet populations must be estimated from surveys at sea. We compared colony and pelagic population estimates for 13 colonial seabird species in Alaska and found that they were strongly correlated (r
10.2307/1369850|Nine fossil premaxillae and mandibles of the Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) are reported from a late Pliocene sinkhole deposit at Inglis 1A, Citrus County, Florida. Vertebrate biochronology places the site within the latest Pliocene (2.0 to 1.6 million years ago, Ma) and more specifically at 2.01-1.87 Ma. The fossils are similar in morphology to living Florida Scrub-Jays in showing a relatively shorter and broader bill compared to western species, a presumed derived character for the Florida species. The recent elevation of the Florida Scrub-Jay to species rank is supported by these fossils by documenting the antiquity of the species and its distinct bill morphology in Florida.
10.1525/cond.2012.110152|We studied the effect of botfly (
40072422|Characterizing avian diet is complex, especially for generalist insectivores, as food resources can vary over space and time, and individuals of different sexes and ages may consume different food. We examined diet of a generalist insectivore, the Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (
10.2307/1368485|The effects of high and low protein food on molting in penned, wild-strain Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) from southwestern Sweden were studied in 1979, 1980, and 1985. Body condition, as indicated primarily by lipid deposits, declined during the flightless period. This decline was probably more the result of a strategy to recover flight capability rapidly than the result of stress. By metabolizing stored lipids, birds may be able to seek refuge in habitats offering protection from predators, even if food in such habitats is scarce. During the flightless period, food quality did not affect the growth rate of the primary feathers. But when exposed to low protein food, even after recovering flight capability, birds, especially males, developed shorter wing feathers; this feather shortening may reduce their condition capacity, i.e., their capacity to increase body condition without reducing their flight capacity in late autumn. A lowered condition capacity could lead to decreased survival of the ducks when exposed to severe winter conditions. Female Mallards demonstrated a higher condition capacity than males, which may contribute to the more rapid recovery of female primaries. Since the final length of the primaries is affected by food quality during molting, wing length is probably not a variable suitable for use in a condition index.
10.2307/1367069|Our East African studies have focused on the sociality, duetting and intra- and interspecific systematics of barbets (Capitonidae). The Afrotropical barbets include 14 duetting, social species and 22 non-duetters, both social and non-social. In this review of them, comparisons are broadly conducted, but centered about the ground barbets (Trachyphonus) and some species of Lybius. The sexually dichromatic Red and Yellow Barbet (T. erythrocephalus) occurs in pairs and in social groups; duetting is by the pair, or mainly by the primary pair of a group. Within groups, secondary adults and young may join in part of the duet but their roles are limited by the dominance of the primary pair. The sexual songs are not very different. Subspecies of erythrocephalus differ little morphologically except in color tone and size. Darnaud's Barbet (T. darnaudii) is sexually monomorphic with races morphologically somewhat divergent. Sexual duetting roles are distinctive, and in groups the primary pair actively prevents duetting of secondary adults or young birds. Removal of a duetter leads to instant replacement from within the group, another bird assuming the duet role of the lost bird. In the Red-faced Barbet (Lybius rubrifacies), the Black-collared Barbet (L. torquatus) and the Black-billed Barbet (L. guifsobalito) the sexes are alike, pairs and social groups occur, and duetting is by the primary pair, with distinct sexual duet roles, following a greeting ceremony in which other individuals may take part. Secondary "pairs" occur in some groups; these may duet when apart from the primary pair, but not in the presence of the latter. Allopatric torquatus and guifsobalito show no or modest geographic variation and have similar though distinctive duets. Lybius rubrifacies shows no morphological geographic variation, and marginally overlaps torquatus; its duet markedly differs from that of torquatus. The duet songs, whatever the degree of genetic control, are species-specific. Only paired duetting birds hold territories. Systematic comparison and studies of sociality and duetting in Afrotropical barbets suggest that the nature of their social systems and their duets, where these exist, has affected their speciation, and vice versa.
10.2307/1368190|We examined the feeding ecology of Northern Pintails (Anas acuta), Northern Shovelers (A. clypeata), and Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) wintering on drainwater evaporation ponds in California from 1982 through 1984. Pintails primarily consumed midges (Chironomidae) (39.3%) and widegeongrass (Ruppia maritima) nutlets (34.6%). Shovelers and Ruddy Ducks consumed 92.5% and 90.1% animal matter, respectively. Water boatmen (Corixidae) (51.6%), rotifers (Rotatoria) (20.4%), and copepods (Copepoda) (15.2%) were the most important Shoveler foods, and midges (49.7%) and water boatmen (36.0%) were the most important foods of Ruddy Ducks. All three species were opportunistic foragers, shifting their diets seasonally to the most abundant foods given their behavioral and morphological attributes.
10.1525/cond.2011.110012|In eastern North America, after the young fledge, both adult and juvenile mature-forest birds may use regenerating clearcuts, although which species frequent early-successional forest and during which life stages is not well documented. To assess whether birds nesting in mature forest in north-central Minnesota use regenerating clearcuts 210 years old, we netted after birds fledged (20062009) and during the breeding season (2009). In addition, we monitored Ovenbird (
10.2307/1368875| Incubation behavior of Ring-necked Ducks (Aythya collaris) was studied in northwestern Minnesota from 1978 to 1980. Incubation constancy was similar for all birds (85%), but recess duration and frequency differed for females nesting along cattail/open water edges (x = 47 min, 5.1 recesses/day) and in flooded sedge meadow (x = 73 min, 2.7 recesses/day) away from open-water feeding areas. Timing of recesses also was influenced by nest site location. Nest attentiveness of Ring-necked Ducks apparently is influenced by nutrient reserve levels in females at the onset of incubation and food availability in wetlands used by breeding birds. My findings are consistent with Afton's (1979, 1980) prediction that in smaller species, environmental factors increasingly affect anatid incubation rhythms, and they generally support his conclusion that the relationship of fasting endurance to body size has been very important in the evolution of avian incubation behavior. 
10.2307/1368352|Field observations indicate that Western Grebe (Aechmophorus occidentalis) parents use two vocalizations, Ticking and Clucking, to affect head movements of newly hatched chicks being carried on their back. Playbacks of Ticking calls result in chicks hiding their heads beneath the back feathers and being silent, while Clucking calls result in chicks poking their heads out and begging loudly for food. Ticking calls heard within a colony are given primarily by parents with chicks, not by individuals without offspring. Observations outside of the colony suggest that it functions as an alarm signal to chicks, and not as a generalized alarm signal to mates or other members of the colony.
1370673| We examined the distribution and abundance of hummingbirds at two study sites in southeastern Arizona, where we banded over 8000 individuals and 11 species in a 6-year period. We trapped approximately once a week from April to October at each site, from 1988-1992 at Sonoita, in oak woodlands, and 1991-1993 at Harshaw Creek, in a riparian area. Anna's (Calypte anna), Black-chinned (Archilochus alexandri), and Rufous (Selasphorus rufus) Hummingbirds were the most abundant species. At Harshaw Creek, Broad-billed (Cynanthus latirostris) and Costa's (Calypte costae) Hummingbirds occurred in significant numbers. A massive fall migration occurred at both sites, but few hummingbirds moved northward in spring. The large numbers of migrants were spaced over time within seasons, and the timing of peak migration for a species varied among years. Fall-migrant Black-chinned Hummingbirds peaked earliest with adult males preceding adult females and juveniles, followed by Rufous Hummingbirds (predominantly juveniles), then Anna's Hummingbirds. Of the most abundant species, Rufous Hummingbirds used the sites only during their migration, and the other four species bred at one or both sites. During the first three years of feeder use at Harshaw Creek, Anna's Hummingbirds significantly increased in numbers but other species did not. We also report how the age and sex classes for the common species varied in abundance between sites and among years. /// Analizamos la distribucin y abundancia de colibres en dos sitios en el sureste de Arizona, donde se anillaron ms de 8000 individuos de 11 especies durante un perodo de seis aos. Durante los meses de abril a octubre entre 1988 y 1993, se capturaron colibres una vez por semana, en un rea de encinal abierto en Sonoita y por tres aos en un rea riparia en Harshaw Creek. Las especies ms abundantes fueron: Calypte anna, Archilochus alexandri y Selasphorus rufus; en Harshaw Creek, Cynanthus latirostris y Calypte costae ocurrieron en cantidades significativas. En los dos sitios ocurri una migracin hacia el sur en forma masiva durante el otoo, pero muy pocos colibres migraron hacia el norte durante la primavera. Los grandes nmeros de migrantes estuvieron espaciados en el tiempo dentro de cada estacin, y la fecha pico de migracin para cada especie vari ao a ao. Durante la migracin de otoo, el pico de migracin ms temprano fue el de A. alexandri, cuyos machos adultos migraron antes que las hembras adultas y los juveniles, seguido por el pico migratorio de S. rufus (dominado por juveniles) y despus por el de C. anna. Una de las especies ms abundantes (S. rufus) usa los sitios solamente durante su migracin, mientras que las otras cuatro especies se reproducen en uno o ambos sitios. Durante los tres primeros aos en que los colibres utilizaron bebederos en Harshaw Creek, C. anna aument en forma significativa, pero las otras especies no. Tambin reportamos cmo variaron las abundancias de las distintas clases de edad y sexo de un sitio a otro y entre los diferentes aos para las especies ms comunes. 
10.2307/1368240|Roughly 15% of the rich Amazonian avifauna has been shown to be dependent on riverine habitats, particularly islands that form in the channels of the Amazon River and its largest tributaries. In northeastern Peru and southeastern Colombia, over 230 species have occurred on river islands, about 19 of which appear to be restricted to habitats found almost exclusively on islands, such as Tessaria-scrub and large tracts of Cecropia forest. Habitat specialization and foraging behavior were studied quantitatively for 31 bird species that used only terrestrial habitats on two study islands on the Napo River in northeastern Peru. Density estimates for residents on a small, Tessaria-dominated island, exceeded 160 birds/ha, a figure an order of magnitude greater than bird densities previously reported for forest habitats in the Neotropics. Obligate river island species showed a higher degree of microhabitat specialization than did nonobligate island species. Several of the most specialized species were found mainly in the Tessaria scrub or the understory of the Cecropia forest. Most of the species were primarily insectivorous, but several also took advantage of the abundant Cecropia fruit and were at least partially frugivorous. Little difference in the degree of foraging specialization was found between obligate and nonobligate island species, however, both groups were specialized with respect to foraging technique and substrate use. Water fluctuation of up to 20 m between seasons, completely flooding the young islands and the understory of the older islands, creates the need for species to be good colonizers, as does the natural, rapid, succession of vegetation on the islands from Tessaria, to Cecropia, to an older, more complex vegetation. Conservation plans for the Amazon basin should take into account the high dependency of species on riverine habitats, particularly islands.
10.2307/1369060|This study examined nest site selection within Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis) colonies in terms of nesting synchrony, nearest-neighbor distances, vegetation, exposure, and nest success. Nests in 11 Eared Grebe colonies in Minnesota were initiated over a span of 11-45 days, with most nests in each colony initiated in <11 days. In each of six colonies studied, mean nearest-neighbor distance of the earliest nests was greater than that of the complete colony. Nearest-neighbor distance tended to decrease with an increase in emergent vegetation density. Early nests seemed to form the skeleton of a neighborhood, with later nests filling in or establishing other neighborhoods. In five of six colonies, clutch sizes were larger in earlier nests. No significant difference in egg volume between early and late nests was apparent in the two colonies studied. Early nests were more successful than were late nests in two of four colonies; center nests were more successful than were edge nests at only one of four colonies. Most nest destruction in this study was caused by waves generated by high winds; <2% of nests showed evidence of predation.
10.2307/1368351| Singleleaf pion pine (Pinus monophylla) and limber pine (P. flexilis) seeds collected and stored by Clark's Nutcrackers (Nucifraga columbiana) changed dramatically during fall seed harvests. During August and early September seeds increased in dry mass and caloric value per unit mass. Cones ripened and began to open during mid- to late September. Later, during October and early November, the number of seeds in cones gradually decreased until there were virtually none remaining by mid-November. Nutcrackers modified their foraging behavior to take advantage of these changes. Changes included increased foraging intensity, increased foraging rate, and switching from closed to opening cones during a 3- to 4-week period when both cone types were available. During the approximately 50- to 75-day harvest period, nutcrackers stored much of the food they would consume over the coming winter, spring, and summer. Nutcrackers stored 1.8 and 2.6 times more energy in the form of pine seeds than they require to survive the winter at subalpine elevations. Changes in nutcracker foraging behavior results in greater numbers of seeds stored, and thus nutcracker efficiency in fall may have far-reaching consequences at other seasons. 
10.2307/1368614|We evaluated population trends of Black-capped (Parus atricapillus), Chestnut-backed (P. rufescens) and Mountain (P. gambeli) chickadees in the Pacific Northwest of North America using 41 years (1944-1985) of data from Christmas Bird Counts. Most (76-83%) locations showed no significant trends (long-term increases or decreases in numbers of chickadees detected per observer hours) for any of the three species. Five to 14% of the locations had significant declines and 10 to 13% had significant increases. The recent range expansion by Chestnut-backed Chickadees in the Sierra Nevada of California was not accompanied by declines in Mountain Chickadee numbers. Chestnut-backed Chickadee populations no longer appear to be increasing in the Sierra Nevada; however, some populations in the San Francisco Bay region of California are apparently still increasing.
10.2307/1367029|I analyzed the influence of sampling scheme and sample size on results of foraging behavior of the Hermit (Dendroica occidentalis) and Black-throated Gray (D. nigrescens) warblers using both single point and sequential observational methods. Single point observations gave results similar to those of sequential observations except for the use of foraging heights and species of tree; infrequently used heights and tree species were not detected by the single point method. Making sequential observations apparently allows an observer to follow an individual bird through a wider range of activities (e.g., use of low heights) as compared to single point observations. Results indicate that at least 30 individuals constitute the minimum sample necessary to analyze foraging behavior. Statistical problems associated with the sequential observation method are discussed, as are suggestions for alternative methods of sampling foraging behavior.
4500987| Understanding habitat quality for birds is crucial for ecologists and managers, but few papers have explored the advantages and disadvantages of different ways to measure it. In this review I clarify terminology and distinguish habitat quality from related terms, differentiate habitat quality at the levels of individual birds and populations, and describe different field methods for measuring habitat quality. As much as feasible, biologists concerned with habitat quality should emphasize demographic variables while recognizing that reproduction, survival, and abundance may not all be positively correlated. The distribution of birds can also reveal habitat quality (e.g., through patterns of habitat selection), but researchers should first investigate how closely their subjects follow ideal distributions because numerous ecological factors can lead birds to select poor and avoid rich habitats. Measures of body condition can provide convenient measures of habitat quality, but to be useful they must be a consequence, rather than a cause, of habitat selection. Habitat ecologists should use caution before relying on shortcuts from more labor-intensive demographic work. To increase the reliability of our habitat quality measurements, we should work to develop new methods to assess critical assumptions of nondemographic indicators, such as whether birds follow ideal distributions under natural conditions and whether spatial variation in body condition manifests in differential fitness. /// Entender la calidad del hbitat de las aves es crucial para los eclogos y los encargados del manejo ambiental, pero pocos artculos han explorado las ventajas y desventajas de distintos mtodos para medirla. En esta revisin, aclaro la terminologa y diferencio la calidad del hbitat de otros trminos relacionados, distingo la calidad del hbitat a nivel de aves individuates y de poblaciones y describo diferentes mtodos de campo para medir la calidad del hbitat. En la medida de lo posible, los bilogos interesados en la calidad del hbitat deberan enfatizar variables demogrficas, y tener en cuenta que la reproduccin, supervivencia y abundancia podran no estar correlacionadas. La distribution de las aves tambin puede indicar la calidad del hbitat (e.g., a travs de patrones de seleccin de hbitat), pero los investigadores deberan primero investigar hasta qu punto sus sujetos de estudio presentan distribuciones ideales, debido a que muchos factores ecolgicos pueden llevar a que las aves seleccionen ambientes pobres y eviten ambientes ricos. Las medidas de condicin corporal tambin pueden representar medidas convenientes de la calidad del hbitat, pero para ser tiles deben ser una consecuencia y no una causa de la seleccin de hbitat. Los eclogos ambientales deben tener cuidado al basarse en estudios rpidos en lugar de realizar trabajos demogrficos ms laboriosos. Para incrementar la confiabilidad de nuestras medidas de calidad de hbitat, debemos desarrollar nuevos mtodos para abordar las suposiciones ms importantes de los indicadores no demogrficos, tales como si las aves presentan distribuciones ideales en condiciones naturales, y si la variacin espacial en la condicin corporal se traduce en una adecuacin biolgica diferencial. 
10.2307/1369153|The bird community of the understory in far northern forests is markedly more diverse and abundant in deciduous than coniferous forests. Avian species richness within each vegetation type did not increase with size of source fauna, which can be interpreted as indicating that these communities are "saturated." However, the communities may not be saturated either in the long-term view (post-Pleistocene lag) or in the short-term view (because marked population fluctuations may constrain diversity short of saturation). Differences in species diversity were not readily attributable to geographic barriers such as the coastal mountain ranges or to metapopulation dynamics. Local ecological factors that may contribute to avian abundance and diversity included density of litter invertebrates and understory vegetation structure, and possibly foliage invertebrate abundance and nest safety. Some typically understory birds in coastal conifer forests often shifted nest sites to moss wads in the canopy and subcanopy.
10.2307/1369148|In cooperative breeding systems, males that share a nest face the prospect of providing for young that are not their own. Males of many species attempt to reduce the risk of losing paternity with aggressive behaviors, thereby limiting other males' access to the female during copulation. The Galapagos Hawk (Buteo galapagoensis) exhibits an extreme form of cooperative polyandry in which anecdotal data suggest all males in a territory share mating equally with the female, with very little to no interference, and care for young within the group. Males in a territory are unrelated adults and share paternity. We examine paternal care in relation to the shared parentage of the Galapagos Hawk and offer explanations for group cohesion. We found that paternal care was variable and that all males cared for the young on their territory without regard to the number of males residing together. There was evidence that males that sired young and those that sired none did not differ in quantity of care. However, we could not rule out a relationship between paternity and care. There was no obvious cue the males could use to discern paternity, since the only evidence of dominance was a subtle hierarchy expressed in larger groups. We suggest that the simple rule for paternal care in the Galapagos Hawk is that if a male is a group member, he will copulate with the female, have some probability to fertilize the eggs, and provide care for young produced at the nest.
10.2307/1368991|Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) were followed (n = 269) from their colony in east-central Georgia to foraging sites to examine the foraging travel strategies of these birds. Most sites were relatively close to the colony (median distance = 8.8 km) requiring short travel times (median time = 22.52 min). Directness ratios (total distance flown/direct distance) for 89 mapped foraging flights suggested that storks flew relatively straight paths to feeding areas. Comparison of flight (air) speeds determined from this data with speeds determined from energetics models suggested that storks minimized flight energy costs rather that maximized range during foraging travel. Estimated energetic costs of flapping and soaring modes of flight were 204.8 W and 18.1 W, respectively. Seasonal analyses indicated that storks employed soaring flight more frequently in the latter half of the breeding season when they traveled to more distant sites. Energetic costs did not vary seasonally due to the increase in use of the energetically conservative soaring mode of travel on the longer flights. Observations at the colony indicated that foraging trip durations were constant throughout the season and that parents met increased nestling food demand by increasing the frequency of foraging trips.
10.2307/1369747|We studied the effect of time and nest-site characteristics on nest concealment measurements and analyzed differences in concealment between parasitized, nonparasitized, depredated, and fledged nests. Mean concealment at nests of three old-field bird species was best explained by bird species, nest plant, and height of the nest. Nests lost concealment over time, particularly those placed high in shrubs or roses (Rosa spp.). Mean and minimum concealment did not explain occurrence of predation or brood parasitism for any of the three bird species, and concealment at parasitized versus unparasitized nests and depredated versus fledged nests did not change differently over time. A literature review showed that most studies of real passerine nests using visual nest concealment have taken measurements after nest termination, and few studies indicated that concealment was important in explaining nest predation or brood parasitism. Late concealment measurements may be an additional source of error in nesting studies, especially if predation or parasitism is more likely to occur at nests sharing similar vegetation characteristics.
10.2307/1368725| Stable carbon and nitrogen isotopic analyses were performed on tissues of 21 Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) collected in Barkley Sound (n = 18) and on Johnston Lake, British Columbia (n = 3). Three adult males had significantly lower muscle tissue 
10.2307/1369610|Hybridization within genera occurs more frequently in avian families and subfamilies where there is considerable male parental investment, less frequently in families with moderate levels of male parental investment, and rarely in lineages where males contribute only genetic material to their offspring. In addition, genera that show considerable male parental investment are typically less speciose than genera where there is reduced male parental investment. Species showing high levels of male parental investment, however, typically have more subspecies, indicating that local adaptation evolves in these groups, but reproductive isolation does not evolve. Some hybrid matings appear to involve females of one species showing an apparent preference for mating with larger or dominant males, even if these males are heterospecific (e.g., black and mallard ducks). Similar patterns occur in fishes, amphibians, and mammals, the other three vertebrate lineages that show extensive parental care. Hybridization in birds may be an evolutionary mechanism that allows increased genetic diversity and adaptability under changing environmental conditions, particularly environments disturbed by humans. It is also possible that new forms (incipient species) may arise through hybridization that are better adapted to disturbed environments than either parental species.
10.2307/1368438|Colombian populations of Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus flavigula) inhabit the Andes and are geographically isolated from Central American populations. Their diverse food habits include acorns from Quercus humboldtii, the only oak in the Colombian Andes. Unlike birds from North America, however, Colombian Acorn Woodpeckers do not store acorns or rely heavily upon them. Instead, they feed on insects, sap, and fruit year-round. Although oak woodlands seem to be their preferred habitat, Colombian Acorn Woodpeckers are found residing permanently and breeding cooperatively in other kinds of habitat. The limited availability of storage facilities (habitat saturation hypothesis) does not seem to be adequate to explain cooperative breeding in these populations.
10.2307/1369396|Assessing status and recovery of the endangered Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) requires knowledge of the species' current distribution and abundance throughout the annual cycle. To address this issue, over 1,000 biologists and volunteers from 10 nations collaborated in the 1991 International Piping Plover Census. Approximately 2,099 sites were censused yielding the highest number of breeding (5,482 adults) and wintering (3,451 birds) Piping Plovers ever recorded. Most winter birds occurred in Texas (55%) and along other United States Gulf Coast sites (93%). Among winter birds, 51% used ocean beaches, 43% used sand or algal flats in protected bays, and 6% used areas where protected bays met ocean beaches. Breeding birds were widely distributed in small populations in the Northern Great Plains/Prairie (63.2%) and on the Atlantic Coast (36%). Few birds (N = 39) remain on the Great Lakes. Habitat use among breeding birds varied considerably across the species range. While most Atlantic (93.9%) and Great Lakes (100%) birds used sandy beaches, 59.6% of Northern Great Plains/Prairie birds used shorelines around small alkaline lakes, 18.2% used large reservoir beaches, 19.9% used river islands and adjacent sand pits, 2% used beaches on large lakes, and 0.4% used industrial pond shorelines. Change in status from previous censuses was difficult to determine. New populations were found in Montana, Colorado, and Saskatchewan, Canada; however, the distribution gap between Atlantic and Northern Great Plains/Prairie Piping Plover distribution grows as numbers decline in Minnesota; Manitoba, Canada; and the Great Lakes. Repeated international censuses every five years and a better assessment of reproductive success in local populations will help determine future population trends for the species.
10.2307/1369713|The Great Lakes strongly influence local climate, vegetation, and animal communities, all of which are important to both migrating and breeding birds. This influence can be considerable during springtime in nearshore habitats, as onshore winds depress air temperatures, delaying development of shoreline vegetation relative to inland areas. These developmental differences also may affect abundance, distribution, activity, and growth of insect prey, resulting in spatially-related differences in foraging by birds. Here we test the hypothesis that northern Lake Huron influences the foraging behavior of Black-throated Green Warblers (Dendroica virens) during both migratory periods and the breeding season. We detected spatial variation in a number of variables we used to describe foraging, with most differences occurring during spring migration. We suggest that birds primarily varied foraging in response to spatial differences in prey resulting from microclimatic influences of nearby Lake Huron. We also suggest that emerging aquatic insects in shoreline habitats, primarily midges (Diptera: Chironomidae), are important to birds and propose that this abundant prey source has a primary influence on foraging.
40072394|We contrast patterns of variation in morphological traits of migratory and sedentary forms of the Yellow-rumped Warbler (
10.2307/1368842|We tested hypotheses that prey population fluctuations limit reproduction in Common (Sterna hirundo) and Roseate (S. dougallii) terns. In a 2-year study, both species laid earlier, delivered more fish/hour to nests, grew faster, and survived better in the year when prey populations were higher. Common, but not Roseate, terns had larger clutches and broods in the better food year.
10.1525/cond.2010.090237|Correlations between habitat measures and animal distributions are not always applicable outside the study area that generated them. In such cases, the particularities of these correlations likely arise because only use of the local habitat has been quantified, rather than actual habitat selection, as the distribution models do not account for the behavior of animals in choice. The addition of covariates accounting for selection strategies could improve the precision and accuracy of correlative models of habitat use, but this conjecture has received little empirical attention. To evaluate this possibility, we re-assess previously developed habitat-use models for abundance of males of three grassland birds by explicitly including two measures of selection behavior: the "propensity to aggregate" and "propensity to use social information." Habitat-use models for Nelson's Sharp-tailed Sparrow (
10.2307/1369290|As a preliminary display of the Discovery Ceremony, male and female Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) advertise in bouts of 1-12 calls. Although superficially similar, female Advertising calls were significantly higher in frequency than male calls for all three frequency measures taken. Playback experiments demonstrated that courting males readily distinguished advertising calls of unpaired females from those of unpaired males. When the playback speed of the male calls was increased by 10%, courting males responded to them as though they were female calls, demonstrating that call frequency or duration cues play an important role in sex recognition. Since courting grebes already know the species and sex of their display partner upon hearing its initial, spontaneous advertising, the many elaborate and vigorous pair-formation displays of the Discovery Ceremony of grebes may be functioning in mate choice decisions at more subtle levels.
10.1525/cond.2011.090195|The endangered Red-cockaded Woodpecker (
10.2307/1370234|We investigated the importance of kleptoparasitism in a population of Red-footed Boobies (Sula sula) sympatric with frigatebirds (Great and Lesser Frigatebird Fregata minor and F. ariel) and identified the responses adopted by boobies. Less than 1% of the boobies lost their food by kleptoparasitism. Birds flying in a group >50 m high or after dusk were less likely to be chased than others. We compared the way boobies returned to land and the rate of successful chases in this population with another population of Red-footed Boobies where kleptoparasitic attempts were rare. Birds were more nocturnal in the former population and were better able to resist chases. These observations suggest that the coexistence of boobies with frigatebirds may have led to avoidance responses. Comparison of the behavior of the Masked Booby (Sula dactylatra) to that of the Red-footed Booby showed that the former should be more vulnerable when returning to land than the latter. Further investigations are needed on the way Masked Boobies interact with frigatebirds in a place where both coexist in large numbers and to determine if this species has adopted other avoidance tactics.
10.2307/1369353|We introduce a new method, Residual Raggedness Value (RRV), for estimating molt duration for individual birds captured only once during a molting period. The method is developed and tested using data from Willow Warblers (Phylloscopus trochilus) in prebasic (post-nuptial) molt collected in Swedish Lapland during 1983-1990. The wing raggedness value (RV) describes the amount of "missing" feather area in the wing of a molting bird. RV was positively correlated with stage of molt. The RRVs from this correlation were used to obtain an estimate of the size of the gap in the wing that was independent of stage of molt (i.e., RV controlled for stage of molt). Molt speed of recaptured birds was highly correlated with RRV at the first capture (r<sup>2</sup>=0.57). Thus, an individual's future molt speed could be predicted at the first capture with a high degree of accuracy. Compared to other methods for estimating molt duration, the RRV method produced estimates close to those obtained from recaptured birds. The widely used regression method for estimating molt duration (regressing date of capture on molt score) gave estimates that deviated substantially from both those obtained from the recapture and RRV methods. Our new method is a potentially powerful tool for increasing sample sizes of individual molt speeds in a studied population. This will facilitate understanding how individual birds may adjust the timing and duration of molt in relation to breeding and migration. The RRV method is probably applicable to most species that molt feathers sequentially. However, slow-molting species with few simultaneously growing feathers might be problematic.
10.2307/1369066| In the temperate latitudes of South America, populations of many species of austral bird migrants move northward from their breeding grounds to warmer latitudes during the austral winter. We identify 35 species of birds that presumably nest in Paraguay but are absent or rare during the winter (northern austral migrants), and 45 species with populations that winter in Paraguay but breed in areas farther south (southern austral migrants). We summarize the status of each species and justify its recognition as a long-distance migrant by providing extreme dates of occurrence or other pertinent observations. New distributional records and extreme migration dates are reported for many species. The austral migrant fauna is dominated by flycatchers (Tyrannidae), which account for 40% of the species. Most species of austral migrants are insectivorous. /// En las latitudes templadas de Sudamrica, las poblaciones de muchas especies de aves migrantes australes se trasladan desde sus territorios de nidificacin hacia el norte a latitudes ms calurosas durante el invierno austral. Se identificaron 35 especies de aves que presumiblemente nidifican en el Paraguay pero estn ausentes o son escasas durante el invierno (migrantes australes norteos), y 45 especies con poblaciones que son invernantes en el Paraguay pero nidifican en reas ms al sur (migrantes australes sureos). Se resume el estado de cada especie y se justifica su reconocimiento como un migrante de distancias largas en base de fechas extremas de los registros u otras observaciones. Se presentan datos referentes a nuevos registros de distribucin y nuevas fechas extremas de migracin. La fauna migrante austral es dominada por especies de la familia Tyrannidae, que representan 40% de las especies. La mayora de las especies de migrantes australes se alimentan de insectos. 
10.2307/1370206|We examined the feeding behavior and nutritional ecology of one of the smallest species of avian herbivores (ca. 44 g), the Rufous-tailed Plantcutter Phytotoma rara (Phytotomidae). This species inhabits forests and scrublands, as well as crop fields and orchards in central Chile. Field and laboratory data revealed that P. rara is a herbivorous bird with marked preferences for leaves in comparison to fruits and insects. When P. rara eats a highly diluted plant material (such as lettuce), a shorter digesta retention time and a lower apparent digestibility was observed in comparison to a high-quality diet. Wet-mass daily intake of plant material was 5.4 times body mass, two times higher compared with the high-quality diet. The larger proportion of water and refractory materials in lettuce diet may explain the variation in ingestion rates. Feeding bouts were longer with lettuce diet, because birds spent more time handling and chewing previous ingesta. Chewing may increase overall digestibility through physical breakdown of cell walls, making available the highly digestible cell contents. These strategies may allow P. rara to maintain body mass balance when feeding on highly diluted plant material.
10.2307/1370085|Stable-nitrogen and carbon isotope ratios ( <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C) were determined in liver tissue samples from six species of Icelandic seabirds. Stomach contents were primarily capelin (Mallotus villosus) in north Iceland, and primarily sandlance (Ammodytes sp.) in south Iceland. Stable isotope signatures also were measured in a range of typical prey species, including capelin and sandlance. Combined isotopic signatures in seabirds exhibited significant inter-species and inter-site variation. Similarly, combined isotope signatures differed significantly between prey species. The trophic relationships of the six seabird species differed between the two sites. Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) exhibited a relatively depleted mean  <sup>13</sup>C value in the north, but the reverse was true in the south. We used a dual-isotope multiple-source mixing model to estimate contributions of different prey species to the diet of seabirds based on their isotope signatures. Whereas the general patterns of proportions of different prey in seabirds' diets in the north and south produced by the model supported conventionally-collected dietary data, the importance of some relatively rare prey species tended to be overestimated.
10.2307/1368635|The water vapor conductance of eggs of mound-nesting Malleefowl (Leipoa ocellata) increases about three-fold during the 60-day incubation period. As the embryo absorbs calcium from the inside of the eggshell, mainly from the shoulder and equator, the pore length decreases about 21% and the narrowest part of each pore is lost. Because the inner 21% of a pore accounts for about 85% of the resistance to gas diffusion in unincubated eggs, its loss greatly increases conductance. The increase in conductance of Malleefowl eggs is greater than that recorded for eggs of other birds, and appears to be a requirement for successful gas exchange in an underground environment.
10.2307/1368723|Bird species densities were determined for summer and winter on 132 study plots grouped into 25 riparian habitats in or near the Huachuca Mountains of southeastern Arizona. The habitats were defined based on the dominant riparian tree species, the size of the riparian stand, and the type of adjacent upland vegetation. Vegetation characteristics and physical environmental data were collected at each plot. The type of dominant riparian tree species influenced bird species richness and total density during the breeding season. Cottonwood habitats had the greatest richness, and both cottonwood and sycamore habitats had high densities. Upland vegetation was an important factor related to winter species richness and abundance, with plots in open grassland areas having greater richness and density. Riparian stand size was a relatively poor predictor of avian density or richness in either season. Groups of bird species that shared similar density distributions in the summer were associated with specific riparian habitats. The winter pattern of species groups was not as clear, and groups could not be assigned to riparian habitats, but they were related to either wooded or open upland vegetation. Riparian habitats were also clustered based on similar densities of birds. In summer, high-elevation habitats were distinct from low-elevation and foothill habitats. In winter, riparian habitats separated into categories of wooded vs. open adjacent vegetation.
4122530| Plasma metabolites provide information about the physiological state and fuel use of birds, and have been used for predicting refueling rates of birds during migratory stopovers. However, little is known about the effect of diet on metabolite concentrations in small songbirds. We investigated the effect of dietary macronutrient composition on lipid and protein metabolites in captive White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis). Birds fed a high-protein, low-carbohydrate insect diet had lower plasma triglyceride concentrations and higher plasma B-hydroxybutyrate concentrations than birds fed a high-carbohydrate, low-protein grain diet during feeding. The insect-fed birds also had higher plasma uric acid concentrations than grain-fed birds and birds fed a low-protein, high-fat, and high-carbohydrate fruit diet. Diet did not significantly influence plasma concentrations of glycerol or nonesterified fatty acids. After subsequent overnight fasting, birds in all three diet groups had similar concentrations of lipid metabolites, but uric acid was marginally elevated in insect-fed birds. Given that dietary macronutrient composition affected certain plasma metabolite concentrations in sparrows, investigators should consider such diet effects when using these metabolites to estimate refueling rates of free-living migratory songbirds, particularly in species that exhibit dietary plasticity during migration. /// Los metabolitos del plasma proveen informacin acerca del estado fisiolgico y el uso de recursos de las aves, y han sido usados para predecir las tasas de reabastecimiento de recursos de las aves durante las paradas migratorias. Sin embargo, se conoce poco acerca de los efectos de la dieta sobre la concentracin de los metabolitos en las aves canoras pequeas. Investigamos el efecto de la composicin de los macro-nutrientes de la dieta de Zonotrichia albicollis sobre los metabolitos de lpidos y protenas en condiciones de cautiverio. Tras ser alimentadas al medio da, las aves con una dieta a base de insectos rica en protena y baja en carbohidratos tuvieron concentraciones de triglicridos ms bajas y concentraciones de B-hidroxibutirato ms altas en el plasma que las aves alimentadas con una dieta a base de granos rica en carbohidratos y baja en protena. Las aves alimentadas con insectos tambin tuvieron concentraciones ms altas de cido rico en el plasma que las aves alimentadas con granos y que las aves alimentadas con una dieta baja en protena, alta en grasas y alta en carbohidratos derivados de frutas. El tipo de dieta no afect de manera significativa las concentraciones de glicerol ni de cidos grasos no esterificados en el plasma. Las concentraciones de los metabolitos de lpidos fueron similares entre las aves de los tres grupos de dieta despus de ser sometidas a ayunos durante la noche; sin embargo, el cido rico estuvo marginalmente elevado en las aves alimentadas con insectos. Dado que la composicin de los macronutrientes de la dieta afect las concentraciones de algunos metabolitos del plasma en Z. albicollis, los investigadores deben considerar los efectos de las dietas cuando usen dichos metabolitos para estimar las tasas de reabastecimiento de las aves canoras migratorias silvestres, particularmente en las especies que exhiben plasticidad en su alimentacin durante la migracin. 
1370391| Europa Island is a major breeding place for green turtles (Chelonia mydas; 0.7 to 2.4 million juvenile turtles hatch there annually), Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor; 700 to 1100 breeding pairs), and Lesser Frigatebirds (Fregata ariel; 1000 to 1200 pairs). By visual observation, we quantified the proportions of males, females, and juveniles of both frigatebird species prospecting over the hatching sites and preying on hatchling turtles. Of 1828 juveniles observed hatching at daytime (35 separate turtle emergences), 1632 were immediately eaten by male Great Frigatebirds. Only 10 hatchlings were preyed upon by female Great Frigatebirds; the remaining 186 were captured by juvenile Great Frigatebirds. Such feeding behavior was not observed in Lesser Frigatebirds. We suggest that the sexual and species differences in hatchling turtle predation are due to size differences between the two species and between male and female Great Frigatebirds. /// La Isla Europa es un importante lugar de reproduccin de tortugas verdes (Chelonia mydas; 0.7 a 2.4 millones de tortugas juveniles eclosionan all anualmente), as como de Fregata minor (700 a 1100 parejas reproductivas) y F. ariel (1000 a 1200 parejas). Por medio de observaciones visuales, cuantificamos la proporcin de machos, hembras y juveniles de ambas especies de fragatas que investigaban los sitios de eclosin y se alimentaban de tortugas juveniles. De un total de 1828 tortugas observadas eclosionando durante el da (35 episodios de eclosin diferentes), 1632 fueron inmediatamente depredadas por machos de F. minor. Slo 10 tortugas fueron consumidas por hembras de F. minor, mientras que las 186 restantes fueron capturadas por individuos juveniles de esta especie. Este comportamiento de alimentacin no fue observado en F. ariel. Sugerimos que la depredacin diferencial de tortugas juveniles es consecuencia de las diferencias en tamao entre las dos especies de fragatas y entre machos y hembras de F. minor. 
10.2307/1369477|We examined the effects of experimental food reductions on the reproductive biology of nestling Vesper Sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) during 1991 in the Little Missouri National Grasslands, North Dakota. Grasshopper densities on territories around 24 individual nests were experimentally reduced while 31 nests served as controls. There were no significant differences between treatment and control nests in number of young fledged per nest, 2-8 day nestling growth rate, or final 8 day nestling mass. Nest failure was due to predation (83.3% of nests that failed), and abandonment or parental death (16.7% of nests that failed). Grasshoppers were the principal food, comprising 67.7% of all identified food items brought to all nests when nestlings were 7-8 days old. Breeding adults on treated territories foraged significantly further from the nest than control birds suggesting that birds on treated sites compensated for the reduction in food by altering foraging behavior.
10.2307/1370425| We present information from 75 nests of Gray-crowned Tyrannulet (Serpophaga griseiceps) found in open Prosopis woodlands of the central Monte desert between 1995 and 1997 and compare it with information corresponding to other species of the genus. Breeding occurred from October to January. Nests are small open cups. Both parents participated in nest building, which lasted 4-7 days. In the Prosopis woodland, 98% of the nests were built in chaar (Geoffroea decorticans), which also is commonly used as a nest plant by S. subcristata in east-central Argentina. Mean clutch size did not vary among years nor within the breeding season, and it was similar to that observed in other Serpophaga. Both male and female shared the 13-15 day incubation period. Hatching was asynchronous. Nestling period lasted 13-14 days, during which both parents reared the chicks. Nesting success (26%) appeared to be less than that previously reported for Nearctic open-nesters (50-60%), and Neotropical open-nesters in dry (50%) and wet tropics (35%). Egg and nestling predation were the main cause of nest failure. 
10.2307/1367571|I studied social interactions in the genetically isolated Santa Cruz Island Scrub Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens insularis) over a five-year period. A total of 254 individuals, representing most of the population within my approximately 225-ha study area, were color-banded. This jay resembles known western mainland populations in its breeding biology and the general characteristics of its social system. Pairing is permanently monogamous, and breeders defend established territories throughout the year. This subspecies may include a higher percentage of non-breeding individuals, especially those older than one year of age, than poorly studied western mainland populations. Populations of both the Santa Cruz Island Scrub Jay and Florida Scrub Jay (A. c. coerulescens) appear to saturate suitable nesting habitat. Mortality rates are low, and both populations produce individuals who delay breeding for up to several years. Unlike the ecologically restricted Florida Scrub Jay, the Santa Cruz Island Scrub Jay is ecologically broad, enabling non-breeders to maintain themselves in marginal habitats until such time as breeding space becomes available; cooperative breeding does not occur in insularis. Results of this study indicate that when dispersal from natal territories is ecologically feasible, selection does not favor the evolution of group-breeding behavior. The selective value of non-territorial, "floating" behavior by non-breeding Santa Cruz Island Scrub Jays presumably outweighs any possible benefits that might be derived through kin selection. At least in this species, the theory of habitat-forced cooperative breeding appears to explain most of the currently known range of social interactions.
1369689|Multi-locus DNA fingerprinting was used to estimate the frequency of extra-pair paternity in the Common Murre (Uria aalge), a colonial, sexually monomorphic seabird that breeds at very high densities and in which extra-pair copulation is frequent. Common Murres produce a single chick. We detected 6 cases of extra-pair paternity in 77 families (7.8%). This value was higher than the proportion of successful extra-pair copulations (1.6%) estimated from behavioral data from an earlier study of the same population.
10.2307/1370202|We contextually analyzed the song of the Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) to examine the role of sexual selection on song versatility. Recordings were obtained as territorial males were randomly presented with a caged male (a conspecific intruder), a caged female (a potential breeding partner), and an empty control cage. Sound spectrograms created from the recordings were analyzed and an index of versatility was calculated for each male in each manipulation so that individual song variation could be compared among behavioral contexts. These analyses suggest that more complex or versatile song production is being selected intersexually, whereas short repetitive song is intrasexually selected.
10.2307/1369856| We used mist nets and fixed-radius point counts to survey the distribution and relative abundance of Neotropical migrant and resident birds at 18 sites, six in each of three regions, in Cuba, representing six forest types. Eighty-two species and one hybrid were recorded, of which 32 species (39.0%) were Neotropical migrants. Strong differences were observed in the numbers of migrant and resident individuals and species detected, and the proportions of migrant individuals and species among regions, but results obtained by mist nets and point counts often differed. Combined results suggest that the western montane region contains the most resident species, and Cayo Coco in eastern Cuba holds the most migrant species. Relative abundances of migrants and residents were compared among forest types within regions. Based on mist net captures, the number of migrant and resident individuals and species at each site were significantly positively correlated. A Principal Components Analysis correlating vegetation structure characteristics with mist net captures suggested that residents occupy a broader spectrum of vegetation structure types than migrants which favor sites with structure typical of secondary forests. We observed habitat segregation among dichromatic migrant warblers both among forest types within regions and among regions within forest types. Generally, Cuba supports greater numbers of migrant individuals and species than other sites in the Caribbean. Compared to the Yucatn Peninsula and Belize, Cuba supports fewer migrant species, but they account for a greater proportion of all species and a lower proportion of all individuals. The efficacy and biases of mist nets and point counts are discussed. 
10.2307/1368682|The effects of handling time on the caching behavior of White-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta carolinensis) were studied in deciduous woods in central Ohio during the winters of 1987-1988 and 1988-1989. I asked whether White-breasted Nuthatches differed in their treatment of food items with different handling times. During four alternating hour-long time intervals, free-ranging nuthatches were offered sunflower seeds (Helianthus sp.) either with the shell removed or with the shell intact. Handling time was significantly shorter for the seeds with the shell removed. Male and female nuthatches cached a significantly greater proportion of seeds with the shell removed. Whereas males took significantly more seeds with the shell removed than seed with the shells intact, females took a significantly greater number of seeds of both types than did males. Female nuthatches transported seeds with the shells removed significantly farther to their cache sites than did male nuthatches. These results suggest that handling time is an important factor used by White-breasted Nuthatches in their decision to cache or immediately consume a food item. Differences between the males and females may be related to interference competition by the socially dominant males. Female nuthatches appear to behave in a manner which compensates for this foraging disadvantage.
3247785| We investigated the degree to which consistently monitored Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) routes represented environmental conditions across the United States. Using 388 models of individual species distributions, we identified eight environmental variables to which birds were particularly sensitive. The nonproportional sampling of these variables would therefore have relatively large impacts on large-scale studies using BBS data. We then used a sampling grid to compare the distribution of these variables in grid cells with and without consistently surveyed BBS routes. We made comparisons nationally, within BBS-defined physiographic regions, and within U.S. states. Not surprisingly, given the geographic variation in the intensity of route coverage, areas with BBS routes differed from those without at a national scale. In general, higher elevations and drier climates were poorly represented by BBS routes, and northeastern deciduous forests were overrepresented. In contrast, we found few large differences within most BBS-defined physiographic regions and within most states. However, there were a few large differences in a small number of regions and states, many of which had relatively few BBS routes. We conclude that the weighting factors supplied by the BBS will likely address most differences in sampling densities at a national scale. However, for studies not using these weights, studies investigating specific subsets of the BBS data, and studies that include states with relatively few BBS routes, we strongly suggest resampling analyses to determine any bias incurred by uneven sampling and, if necessary, the subsequent development of study-specific weighting factors. /// Investigamos el grado en que las rutas censadas anualmente por el Conteo de Aves Reproductivas (BBS, por sus siglas en ingls) representan las condiciones ambientales en los Estados Unidos. Utilizando 388 modelos de distribucin individual de especies, identificamos ocho variables ambientales a las cuales las aves fueron particularmente sensibles. El muestreo no proporcional de estas variables podra tener un fuerte impacto sobre estudios a gran escala que utilizan los datos del BBS. Luego utilizamos una grilla de muestreo para comparar la distribucin de estas variables en las celdas de la grilla con y sin rutas consistentemente monitoreadas por el BBS. Realizamos comparaciones a nivel nacional, dentro de las regiones fisiogrficas definidas por el BBS y dentro de los estados. De manera no sorprendente, dada la variabilidad geogrfica en la intensidad de cobertura de las rutas, las reas con rutas del BBS difirieron de aquellas sin rutas a nivel nacional. En general, las elevaciones ms altas y los climas ms secos estuvieron pobremente representados por las rutas del BBS, y los bosques deciduos del noreste estuvieron sobre-representados. De manera contrastante, encontramos pocas diferencias dentro de las regiones fisiogrficas definidas por el BBS y dentro de los estados. Sin embargo, hubo algunas diferencias considerables en un pequeo nmero de regiones y de estados, muchos de los cuales tenan relativamente pocas rutas del BBS. Concluimos que los factores de peso que el BBS provee probablemente dan cuenta de la mayora de las diferencias en las densidades de muestreo a una escala nacional. Sin embargo, para los estudios que no utilizan estos pesos, los estudios que investigan subconjuntos especficos de datos del BBS y para los estudios que incluyen estados con relativamente pocas rutas del BBS, sugerimos con nfasis un anlisis de re-muestreo para determinar cualquier sesgo que pueda presentarse debido al muestreo desigual, y si es necesario, el desarrollo subsiguiente de factores de peso especficos para el estudio. 
4096515| A new taxon of the Cypselomorphae-the clade including nightjars, potoos, owlet-nightjars, and apodiform birds-is described from the middle Eocene of Messel in Germany. Phylogenetic analysis of 49 characters shows Protocypselomorphus manfredkelleri gen. et sp. nov. to be the sister group of all other cypselomorph taxa, although this placement was not robust to bootstrapping. As evidenced by its swift-like beak, long forearm, and reduced feet, P. manfredkelleri was hawking insects on the wing. Thus it adds a distinctive new taxon to the already diverse assemblage of Paleogene aerial insectivores, all of which belong to the Cypselomorphae. This strongly contrasts with the extant avifauna where many aerial insectivores belong to songbirds, and among the insectivorous cypselomorph taxa only swifts and nightjars are species rich and widely distributed. The diversity of aerial insectivores among the Cypselomorphae may have been reduced by food competition with songbirds, which do not become the dominant group of insectivorous birds before the early Miocene. /// Se describe un nuevo taxn de Cypselomorphae, el clado que incluye a las familias Caprimulgidae, Nyctibiidae, Aegothelidae y a las aves apodiformes, del Eoceno medio de Messel en Alemania. Un anlisis filogentico de 49 caracteres muestra que Protocypselomorphus manfredkelleri gen. et sp. nov. es el grupo hermano de los dems taxa de cipselomorfos, aunque esta posicin no fue apoyada por el anlisis de bootstrap. Como lo evidencia su pico tipo vencejo, antebrazo largo y patas pequeas, P. manfredkelleri cazaba insectos al vuelo. As, este hallazgo aade un nuevo taxn al grupo ya diverso de los insectvoros areos del Palegeno, todos los cuales pertenecen al grupo de los cipselomorfos. Esto contrasta fuertemente con la avifauna actual, en que muchos insectvoros areos pertenecen al grupo de los paseriformes, mientras que de los taxa de insectvoros cipselomorfos slo los apodiformes y caprimlgidos presentan alta diversidad especfica y se encuentran ampliamente distribuidos. La diversidad de los insectvoros areos en los cipselomorfos pude haberse reducido debido a la competencia por alimento con las aves paseriformes, las cuales no se transforman en el grupo dominante de aves insectvoras sino hasta el Mioceno temprano. 
1370042| Parasitized hosts of the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) suffer several costs, and among the most important is the loss of eggs through egg punctures inflicted by the parasite. Unparasitized nests also have eggs damaged by cowbirds, but researchers usually ignore these losses. To quantify this cost we compared three groups of nests of the Yellow-winged Blackbird (Agelaius thilius): parasitized and unparasitized nests from an area used by Shiny Cowbirds, and unparasitized nests from an area not used by the parasite. Because cowbirds puncture eggs as soon as the first host eggs are laid, we calculated the clutch size only for those nests found during construction. Unparasitized nests in the area used by cowbirds had lower egg survival rate and hatching success and higher probability of nest desertion than unparasitized nests in the cowbird-free area. Our results indicate that one must consider egg punctures at unparasitized nests to avoid underestimating the impact of parasitism. /// Los hospedadores de Molothrus bonariensis sufren varios costos, entre los que se destaca la prdida de huevos debida a perforacines hechas por el parsito. Los nidos no parasitados tambin tienen huevos perforados por M. bonariensis, pero estas prdidas son normalmente ignoradas. Para cuantificar este costo comparamos tres grupos de nidos de Agelaius thilius: nidos parasitados y no parasitados de un rea usada por M. bonariensis, y nidos no parasitados de un rea no utilizada por el parsito. Como los parsitos perforan los huevos del hospedador tan pronto como stos son puestos, el tamao de puesta se calcul utilizando nicamente los nidos encontrados durante su construccin. Los nidos no parasitados del rea visitada por los parsitos tuvieron menor supervivencia de sus huevos durante la incubacin, menor xito de eclosin y mayor probabilidad de ser abandonados que los nidos no parasitados del rea libre de parsitos. Los resultados obtenidos indican que deben considerarse las perforaciones de huevos en nidos no parasitados para evitar subestimar el impacto del parasitismo. 
4151015| We used occupancy and productivity data collected at 67 cliffs used for nesting from 1972 to 1999 to assess patterns of distribution and nest-site selection in an increasing population of Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) in central West Greenland. Peregrine Falcons breeding at traditionally occupied cliffs used for nesting had significantly lower variation in productivity and thus these cliffs were better quality sites. This indicates that Peregrine Falcons occupied cliffs according to a pattern of despotic distribution. Falcons breeding at cliffs that were consistently occupied during the breeding season had higher average productivity and lower variation in productivity than falcons at inconsistently occupied cliffs, and thus consistent occupancy also was indicative of cliff quality. Features of high quality habitat included tall cliffs, greater change in elevation from the lowest point within 3 km of the cliff to the cliff top (elevation gain), and protection from weather on the eyrie ledge. Spacing of suitable and occupied cliffs also was an important feature, and the best cliffs generally were more isolated. Increased spacing was likely a mechanism for reducing intraspecific competition. Our results suggest that Peregrine Falcons use a resource defense strategy to compete for better quality habitats and may use spacing and physical features of a nest site to identify good quality breeding habitat. /// Usamos datos de ocupacin y productividad colectados en 67 acantilados usados para nidificar desde 1972 hasta 1999 para determinar los patrones de distributin y selectin de sitio de nidificatin en una poblacin creciente de Falco peregrinus en el centro oeste de Groenlandia. Los individuos de F. peregrinus que criaron en los acantilados tradicionalmente usados para nidificar tuvieron una variatin significativamente menor en la productividad, por lo que estos acantilados fueron sitios de mejor calidad. Esto indica que F. peregrinus ocup acantilados de acuerdo a un patrn de distribucin desptica. Los halcones que criaron en acantilados ocupados continuamente durante la estacin reproductiva tuvieron mayor productividad promedio y menor variacin en la productividad que los halcones en los acantilados menos ocupados, y por ende el patrn de ocupacin continuo fue tambin un indicador de la calidad de los acantilados. Las caractersticas de un hbitat de alta calidad incluyeron acantilados altos, mayores cambios en elevacin desde el punto ms bajo dentro de los 3 km del acantilado hasta la punta del acantilado (ganancia en elevacin) y proteccin del clima en los bordes del nido. La distribucin espacial de los acantilados adecuados y ocupados fue tambin un rasgo importante, de modo que los mejores acantilados generalmente fueron los ms aislados. El espaciamiento mayor fue probablemente un mecanismo para reducir la competencia intraespecfica. Nuestros resultados sugieren que F. peregrinus usa una estrategia de defensa del recurso para competir por ambientes de mejor calidad y puede usar caractersticas fsicas y de la distribucin espacial de los sitios de nidificacin para identificar hbitats de cra de buena calidad. 
10.2307/1370322|We evaluated relationships of Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) densities to habitat attributes, history of habitat contamination by the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, and prey biomass density and abundance during winters 1995-1997 in Prince William Sound, Alaska. Habitat features that explained variation in duck densities included distance to streams and reefs, degree of exposure to wind and wave action, and dominant substrate type. After accounting for these effects, densities were lower in oiled than unoiled areas, suggesting that population recovery from the oil spill was not complete, due either to lack of recovery from initial oil spill effects or continuing deleterious effects. Prey biomass density and abundance were not strongly related to duck densities after accounting for habitat and area effects. Traits of Harlequin Ducks that reflect their affiliation with naturally predictable winter habitats, such as strong site fidelity and intolerance of increased energy costs, may make their populations particularly vulnerable to chronic oil spill effects and slow to recover from population reductions, which may explain lower densities than expected on oiled areas nearly a decade following the oil spill.
40072433|The White-browed Spinetail (
10.2307/1370179|Populations of Lazuli Buntings (Passerina amoena) and Indigo Buntings (P. cyanea) overlap in their distribution and hybridize in the Great Plains of North America. We conducted a 4-year field study of color-banded Indigo, Lazuli, and hybrid Buntings to address questions about mating behavior, male song and plumage traits, and reproductive success. From previous studies, we knew that males of these two taxa can learn one another's song traits and that song is important in eliciting sexual behavior in females. Here, we explore the possible role of intersexual vocal communication in explaining hybrid matings. We classified males and females as lazuli, indigo, or hybrid on the basis of plumage, and recorded male songs and described their acoustic features. We tested for associations between song traits and plumage phenotypes of the males, and between plumage phenotypes of females and the plumage and song traits of their mates. We found positive assortative mating between male and female plumage types, and between male song phrases and female plumage. Data on reproductive success of the different mating associations suggest lower fitness of pairings involving hybrids, especially those in which the female was hybrid. We conclude that there is selection against hybrids, but that between-species crosses are relatively common because, at least to some degree, females use learned song traits of males in mate choice.
4122540| We studied the display behavior and spatial distribution of the White-crowned Manakin (Dixiphia pipra, formerly in the genus Pipra) in the Atlantic Forest of the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The study area included three leks, two apparently solitary display sites, and two "collective display sites," where definitive-plumaged males, predefinitive-plumaged males, and birds of undetermined sex displayed. The average distance between display sites was 68.0  24.4 m (n = 8, range = 41-113 m). Males occupied the same display sites among years. The dispersion pattern of males was typical of exploded or dispersed leks. Males did not display in auditory or visual contact, except at the two display sites that were closest to each other. Lekking White-crowned Manakins used 11 display behaviors and two vocalizations. Four of the 11 display behaviors were recorded only at the collective display sites. We only observed males displaying in the presence of other individuals, regardless of whether it was a collective or solitary display site. Definitive- and predefinitive-plumaged males and birds of indeterminate sex all displayed together. The White-crowned Manakin repertoire of 11 display behaviors indicates a more complex display behavior than previously described. /// Estudiamos el comportamiento de cortejo y la distribucin espacial de Dixiphia pipra (anteriormente en el gnero Pipra) en la Mata Atlntica del Estado de Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. El rea de estudio incluy tres leks, dos lugares de cortejo aparentemente aislados y dos lugares de cortejo colectivos, en los cuales se exhibieron machos con plumaje definitivo, machos con plumaje predefinitivo y aves de sexo indeterminado. La distancia promedio entre los lugares de cortejo fue 68.0  24.4 m (n = 8, rango = 41-113 m). Los machos ocuparon los mismos lugares de cortejo durante aos, y presentaron la distribucin espacial tpica de los leks dispersos. Los machos no se exhibieron en contacto auditivo ni visual, excepto en los dos lugares de cortejo ms prximos entre s. El despliegue de cortejo de D. pipra present 11 comportamientos de cortejo y dos vocalizaciones. Cuatro de los once comportamientos fueron registrados en los lugares de cortejo colectivos, pero nunca en los lugares de cortejo de los machos con plumaje definitivo. Nunca observamos un comportamiento de cortejo en los machos cuando otros individuos no estaban presentes en los lugares de cortejo. Los machos de plumaje definitivo y predefinitivo se exhibieron junto a las aves de sexo indeterminado. El repertorio de 11 comportamientos de cortejo de D. pipra indic un comportamiento de cortejo ms complejo que el previamente observado. 
10.2307/1369399|Although membership in broad diet categories is a standard feature of community analyses of Neotropical birds, the bases for assignments to diet categories are usually not stated, or they are derived from anecdotal information or bill shape. We used notations of stomach contents on museum specimen labels to assess membership in broad diet categories ("fruit only," "arthropods only," and "fruit and arthropods") for species of four families of birds in the Neotropics usually considered to have a mixed diet of fruit and animal matter: trogons (Trogonidae), motmots (Momotidae), New World barbets (Capitonidae), and toucans (Ramphastidae). An assessment of the accuracy of label data by direct comparison to independent microscopic analysis of actual stomach contents of the same specimens showed that label notations were remarkably accurate. The specimen label data for 246 individuals of 17 species of Trogonidae showed that quetzals (Pharomachrus) differ significantly from other trogons (Trogon) in being more frugivorous. Significant differences in degree of frugivory were found among various Trogon species. Within the Trogonidae, degree of frugivory is strongly correlated with body size, the larger species being more frugivorous. The more frugivorous quetzals (Pharomachrus) have relatively flatter bills than other trogons, in accordance with predictions concerning morphology of frugivores; otherwise, bill morphology correlated poorly with degree of frugivory. An analysis of label data from 124 individuals of six species of motmots showed that one species (Electron platyrhynchum) is highly insectivorous, differing significantly from two others that are more frugivorous (Baryphthengus martii and Momotus momota). An analysis of 135 individuals of 12 species of barbets showed that although "fruit only" predominated among almost all species, arthropods are more frequently recorded in the stomachs of species in the genera Eubucco and Capito than in Semnornis. The highly frugivorous diet of Semnornis species is yet another parameter in which they resemble toucans more than New World barbets. Data from 326 individuals of 32 species of toucans showed that the family is remarkably homogeneous in the predominance of fruit in the stomachs of all species. These data suggest that the degree to which toucans prey upon bird eggs and nestlings, and animal matter in general, is overemphasized. Although our data suggest that it is safe to assign toucans to a "fruit only" category in community analyses, such assignments must be taken on a genus-by-genus or species-by-species basis in trogons, motmots, and barbets.
4123202| Astronomers consider light pollution to be a growing problem, however few studies have addressed potential effects of light pollution on wildlife. Sunlight is believed to initiate song in many bird species. If light initiates song, then light pollution may be influencing avian song behavior at a population level. This hypothesis predicts that birds breeding in areas with large amounts of artificial light will begin singing earlier in the day than birds in areas with little artificial light. Birds in highly illuminated areas might begin singing earlier than did birds in those same areas in previous years when artificial light levels were known to be, or were presumably, lower. Also, birds should begin singing earlier within a site on brightly lit nights. In 2002 and 2003 I documented initiation of morning song by breeding American Robins (Turdus migratorius) in areas with differing intensity of artificial nocturnal light. I compared my observations among sites and against historical studies. Robin populations in areas with large amounts of artificial light frequently began their morning chorus during true night. Chorus initiation time, relative to civil twilight, was positively correlated with amount of artificial light present during true night. Robin choruses in areas with little, or presumably little, artificial light have almost never begun during true night, instead appearing to track the onset of civil twilight. Proliferation of artificial nocturnal light may be strongly affecting singing behavior of American Robins at a population level. /// Los astrnomos consideran que la polucin lumnica es un problema creciente, aunque pocos estudios han evaluado sus efectos potenciales en la fauna silvestre. Se cree que la luz del sol estimula el inicio del canto en muchas especies de aves. Si la luz inicia el canto, entonces la polucin lumnica puede estar influenciando el comportamiento del canto a nivel poblacional. Esta hiptesis predice que las aves que cran en reas con altos niveles de luz artificial comenzarn a cantar ms temprano en el da que aquellas en reas con poca luz artificial. Las aves de reas altamente iluminadas podran comenzar a cantar ms temprano que las aves en las mismas reas en los aos previos cuando los niveles de luz artificial eran, o se presuma que eran, menores. De igual manera, las aves deberan comenzar a cantar ms temprano en los sitios con noches luminosas. En el 2002 y el 2003, document el inicio de los cantos matutinos de Turdus migratorius en reas con diferentes intensidades de luz artificial nocturna. Compar mis observaciones entre sitios y con estudios previos. Las poblaciones de T. migratorius en las reas con niveles elevados de luz artificial frecuentemente comenzaron sus coros matutinos durante la noche real. El tiempo de inicio del coro, en relacin con el anochecer urbano, se correlacion positivamente con la cantidad de luz artificial presente durante la noche. Los coros de T. migratorius en las reas con poca, o presumiblemente poca, luz artificial casi nunca han comenzado durante la noche real y en su lugar aparentan seguir el inicio del anochecer urbano. La proliferacin de la luz artificial nocturna puede estar afectando severamente el comportamiento del canto de T. migratorius a nivel poblacional. 
10.2307/1368145|The development of foraging behavior was examined in a population of fledgling Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) in north-central Florida during the 1985 and 1986 post-fledging periods. Related young (siblings) foraged together throughout much of the post-fledging period while young from single chick nests ("singletons") foraged by themselves. Related young had greater capture success over time relative to singleton birds and did not differ statistically from one another. Individual young in both years exhibited considerable variability in foraging technique, although related young had similar foraging techniques. The possible role of socially facilitated learning in enhancing the development of foraging skills in fledgling Ospreys is discussed.
10.2307/1368607|In agonistic situations, Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) utter a short, structurally complex call termed a gargle. Previous work has shown that in contests between two birds at food sources the gargler always wins. We investigated the establishment of the relationship between gargling and dominance by pairing males that were strangers. Our results indicate that dominance is established by fighting and that the dominants are larger than subordinates. In the earliest phase of the first encounter, a dominant bird would utter gargles concurrent with aggressive actions whereas a subordinate's gargling was suppressed and remained so indefinitely. We also investigated the separate effects of the gargle calls, the partner bird, or both in an experimental presentation. Results indicate that the subordinate was not kept away from a food source by the gargle calls of its dominant partner, but it was deterred by the presence of the partner. Dominants, on the other hand, were somewhat deterred by the gargle of their subordinate partner but not by the presence of the partner.
4151025| Migratory birds are exposed to a diverse pathogen fauna by virtue of their long-distance travels. Although the immune system is an organism's primary defense against pathogenic microorganisms, few studies have investigated avian immune function during migration, much less shown seasonal differences in immune function. We describe the immunological condition of three intercontinental migratory species, Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), Veery (C. fuscescens), and Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mus telina) during spring migration. In addition, we compare their immunological condition with conspecifics captured during fall migration and during the breeding season to provide a frame of reference for the spring immunological data. Measures of immunological condition presented include total leukocyte count, heterophilrlymphocyte (H:L) ratio, heterophil and lymphocyte counts, hematocrit, and IgG titers. In addition, we assessed each bird's energetic condition by measuring body mass and calculating a size-corrected condition index. Migrating birds had lower leukocyte and lymphocyte counts, lower hematocrit, reduced fat stores, and higher H:L ratios relative to nonmigrating individuals sampled during the breeding season. We also found that birds sampled during spring migration had lower lymphocyte counts and reduced fat stores, and higher heterophil counts and H:L ratios than fall migrants. Our results suggest that migrating birds are immunocompromised compared with conspecifics during the breeding season. Furthermore, compared with conspecifics sampled after a shorter overland flight, migrants sampled after crossing the Gulf of Mexico exhibited higher H:L ratios, which is indicative of heightened energetic stress. /// Las ayes migratorias estn expuestas a una diversidad de fauna patolgica debido a sus viajes de larga distancia. Aunque el sistema inmunolgico es la principal defensa contra los microorganismos patgenos, pocos estudios han investigado la funcin del sistema inmunolgico de las ayes durante la migracin, y mucho menos han mostrado las diferencias estacionales en la funcin inmunolgica. Este estudio describe la condicin inmunolgica de tres especies migratorias intercontinentales durante la migracin de la primavera: Catharus ustulatus, C. fuscescens y Hylocichla mustelina. Adems, comparamos la condicin inmunolgica de estas ayes con la de ayes de la misma especie capturadas durante la migracin del otoo y durante la poca de reproduccin, a fin de proveer un marco de referencia para los datos inmunolgicos obtenidos en la primavera. Las mediciones que se presentan sobre la condicin inmunolgica incluyen un conteo total de leucocitos, la proporcin de heterfilos:linfocitos (H:L), conteos de heterfilos y linfocitos, hematocritos, y los niveles de IgG. Adems, evaluamos la condicin energtica de cada ave por medio de la medicin de la masa corporal y el clculo de un indice de condicin corregido de acuerdo con el tamao. Las ayes migratorias tuvieron conteos ms bajos de leucocitos y linfocitos, hematocritos ms bajos, reservas de grasa reducidas y proporciones ms altas de H:L en relacin con las ayes no migratorias muestreadas durante la temporada de reproduccin. Tambin se encontr que las ayes que se examinaron durante la migracin de la primavera tenian un menor conteo de linfocitos, reservas de grasa reducidas y un conteo mayor tanto de heterfilos como de la proporcin de H:L que las ayes que migraron en el otoo. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las ayes migratorias estn inmunocomprometidas en comparacin con ayes de la misma especie examinadas durante la temporada en la que no hay migracin. Por otra parte, las ayes migratorias examinadas despus de que cruzaran el Golfo de Mexico mostraron proporciones de H:L ms elevadas comparadas con ayes de la misma especie examinadas durante la migracin del otoo, lo cual indica un elevado estrs energtico. 
10.2307/1367753| I measured body temperature and resting metabolic rate as a function of ambient temperature in eleven species of falconiforms. Body temperatures range from 37.1C to 41.3C and are independent of body size and climate. Resting metabolic rates correlate with variations in body size and climate. Falconiforms from hot habitats have lower resting metabolic rates than those from temperate habitats. The relationship between the mass-specific metabolic rate (mW g<sup>-1</sup>) and mass (g) for birds in this order may be expressed as H<sub>m</sub>=34.62W<sup>-0.36</sup>. The relationship between the minimal thermal conductance (mW [g<sup></sup>C]<sup>-1</sup>) and mass (g) for falconiforms may be expressed as C=2.96W<sup>-0.45</sup>. 
10.2307/1370282|We quantified foraging proficiency in nine free-ranging American Dippers (Cinclus mexicanus) when they were 39-42 days post-hatching, and correlated foraging proficiency with body condition. Although all nine individuals foraged extensively on the smallest size class of prey, individuals with a relatively low rate of caloric intake (RCI) from the larger prey classes consumed a greater proportion of the smallest size prey. Body mass and hematocrit were significantly correlated with RCI. Mass and hematocrit are relative measures of body condition and the body condition of newly independent juveniles may predict survivorship through the first year. Thus, these data are consistent with the assumption that greater foraging proficiency confers fitness benefits for free-living birds. Alternatively, these data also support the interpretation that juvenile dippers in better physical condition forage more proficiently than birds in poorer condition.
10.2307/1370262|We compiled and analyzed 101 accessible reports of 194 individual Kirtland's Warblers (Dendroica kirtlandii) from the Bahama Archipelago, 1841-1997. Most individuals were reported from northern islands (88%), and most sight reports (84%) and specimen/banding records (76%) were on island groups that support or formerly supported open woodlands of Caribbean pine (Pinus caribaea). Where habitat descriptions were provided, 60% mentioned specifically pines or pine understory. After analyses for potential biases from misidentification in sight reports and unequal effort across islands, we found no evidence to support previous claims that Kirtland's Warblers prefer scrub or avoid pine habitats. Rather, based upon 1995-1997 winter surveys using acoustic broadcasts, Kirtland's Warblers were detected in pine woodlands of Abaco and Grand Bahama more frequently than expected compared to encounter rates generated by a null model of random habitat use. Two periods of apparent decline of the Kirtland's Warbler this century, and a modest population increase on the breeding grounds since 1990, occurred contemporaneously with degradation and recovery, respectively, of the fire-dependent pine ecosystem in the northern Bahamas. We recommend a rigorous re-evaluation of conservation priorities now premised largely upon breeding-season limitation.
10.2307/1370265| The Galpagos Penguin (Spheniscus mendiculus) population probably has always been small and largely restricted to the islands of Fernandina and Isabela. Counts suggest the current population of Galpagos Penguins is likely between 4,250 and 8,500, half of what it was in the early 1970s. Population size has varied and declined probably because of substantial changes in oceanic conditions. Body condition as evidenced by weight is enhanced during cold surface water conditions, La Nia, and deteriorates when surface waters are warmed, El Nio, and under the most severe conditions, penguins starve. Analysis of a long-term data set from counts of the population suggests that the population has fluctuated, dropping precipitously after the 1982-1983 El Nio and has since then been recovering very slowly. This parallels the overall warming in the Pacific during the last 20 years associated with the more frequent El Nio and less frequent La Nia events. These trends suggest that long-term global climate warming is likely to threaten the Galpagos Penguin population particularly because the population is small and its distribution restricted. New threats from climatic warming and increasing human perturbations such as fishing, inadvertent discharge of petroleum products, and transport of potential predators and pathogens to islands increase the risk of extinction. 
10.2307/1367419|Ridgway's Hawk (Buteo ridgwayi) is endemic to Hispaniola and its satellites, where it occurs in a wide variety of habitats. We studied this hawk in the wet limestone karst forest of the Dominican Republic between January and June 1976. The hawk is sexually dimorphic with females somewhat larger than males. Display flights of territorial pairs began in January and were observed most often between 10:00 and 12:00. Mean home range for three pairs was 57.8 ha. Nest building was first observed on 25 February. Construction was concentrated in the morning and males did most of the building. Incubation (two eggs) was underway at one nest on 22 March. Females performed all of the incubation except when males took over after food exchanges. Hatching at one nest occurred on 19 and 20 April. At another nest two chicks fledged during the 12th week after egglaying. Both sexes defended nests against intra- and interspecific intruders. Males captured 91% of prey brought to the nests. Lizards and snakes were the most numerous prey brought to nests while mammals formed the bulk of prey biomass. Birds were also brought to young. Ridgway's Hawks used four hunting techniques: (1) Still Hunting, (2) Hang-Searching (slow gliding flight), (3) Foot-Thrusting (thrusting foot into vegetation and cavities to flush prey), and (4) Direct Stoop from soaring. The hawk has three basic vocalizations: (1) Kleeah, used in self-assertive and aggressive contexts; (2) Weeup, given in food exchanges and displays, and (3) the Whistle-Squeal, given during high-intensity interactions. Our observations suggest that B. ridgwayi is closely related to B. lineatus.
4096526| Inland-migrating shorebirds rely on wetlands as stopover sites to replenish nutrient reserves. Because wetlands are spatially and temporally dynamic, shorebirds may accumulate highly variable lipid reserves. We compared lipid reserves among four shorebird species (American Avocets [Recurvirostra americana], Long-billed Dowitchers [Limnodromus scolopaceus], Least Sandpipers [Calidris minutilla], and Western Sandpipers [C. mauri]) collected from play a wetlands in the southern Great Plains during spring 1993 and 1994. Because playas are ephemeral, we had the opportunity to examine the influence of a variable environment (a wet year and a dry year) on lipid reserves. Additionally, we examined the influence of different migration distances and strategies, and body sizes on lipid reserves. Western Sandpipers had the highest lipid reserves (41%-50%) and Dowitchers had the lowest reserves (18%). Least and Western Sandpipers had 7%-9% higher lipid reserves in the wet year than dry year. Thus, small-bodied shorebirds may be more affected by variable habitat conditions than large-bodied shorebirds because of their higher mass-specific metabolic rates. /// Las aves playeras que migran tierra adentro necesitan de humedales como lugares de escala migratoria para recuperar sus reservas de nutrientes. Debido a que los humedales son espacial y temporalmente dinmicos, las aves playeras pueden acumular lpidos como reserva de forma muy variable. En este estudio comparamos las resevas lipdicas entre cuatro especies de aves playeras (Recurvirostra americana, Limnodromus scolopaceus, Calidris minutilla y C. mauri) colectadas en los humedales "playa" de la parte sur de la gran planicie durante la primavera de 1993 y 1994. Debido a que estos humedales son ambientes efmeros, tuvimos la oportunidad de examinar la influencia de un ambiente variable (un ao hmedo y un ao seco) sobre las reservas lipdicas de las aves. Adems, examinamos la influencia de distintas distancias y estrategias de migracin y del tamao corporal sobre las reservas. La especie con las mayores reservas lipdicas fue C. mauri (41%-50%) y la especie con las menores reservas fue L. scolopaceus (18%). Las dos especies de Calidris presentaron reservas lipdicas un 7%-9% mayores en el ao h medo que en el ao seco. Por tanto, las aves playeras de tamao pequeo podran verse ms afectadas por condiciones ambientales variables que las de tamao grande como consecuencia de sus mayores tasas metablicas con respecto al peso. 
10.2307/1367981|Aspects of nestling Tufted Puffin (Fratercula cirrhata) and Horned Puffin (F. corniculata) feeding ecology, growth rate, and fledging success were studied on Buldir Island, Alaska, in 1975 and on Ugaiushak Island, Alaska, in 1976 and 1977. Growth rates were measured for single wild chicks given supplemental food, single chicks raised in captivity and fed ad libitum, and for artifically twinned chicks with and without supplemental food and for twinned chicks raised in captivity. Data from these colonies and years (colony years) were compared with those from other colony years for these species and for Atlantic Puffins (F. arctica). For most aspects of nestling feeding ecology that have been measured, available data are too variable (seasonally, annually, or geographically) to give a reliable correlation with feeding conditions. Growth rates equal to 1.5% of adult body weight/day or less were associated with poor feeding conditions while growth rates of 2.5% or more represented optimum feeding conditions. Nestling growth rates currently provide the best means of assessing feeding conditions. The implications of puffins' ability to raise two chicks, rather than their normal clutch of one, are also discussed.
10.2307/1368733|A recently discovered population of Chamaepetes goudotii (Sickle-winged Guan) in the eastern Andes of southern Peru and northern Bolivia is anomalous in its high-elevation (above 3,000 m) distribution; populations from central Peru to northern Colombia are found generally below 2,100 m. Several hypotheses are evaluated to account for the origin of such an unusual distribution. No evidence for long-distance dispersal or human introduction was found (and previous claims of introduction by ancient civilizations to account for disjunct distributions of two other species of New World birds are disputed). We propose that the current pattern is the result of fragmentation of a once continuous distribution. Hypotheses concerning the cause of the fragmentation and maintenance of the current pattern are evaluated. The relative consistency of elevational distributions of Andean bird species over broad latitudinal ranges (and dramatic differences in species composition with changes in elevation) provides circumstantial evidence against an autecological hypothesis that would propose that ecological requirements are met for C. goudotii only in the two disjunct regions. If potential competitors are restricted to congeners, no support can be found for a hypothesis based on interspecific competition. However, if the field of potential competitors is expanded to include morphologically similar confamilials, a striking pattern of generally nonoverlapping distributions in terms of elevation and latitude is revealed. Most striking is the reversal in elevations occupied by C. goudotii and Penelope montagnii. The reliance on interpretation for evaluating competing hypotheses makes such analyses inherently unsatisfying.
1370637| Recent studies suggest that many bird species are able to vary the sex ratio of their young. Among cooperative breeders, in which adult helpers aid the genetic parents in the rearing of young, two models have been invoked to explain this variation. According to the local resource competition hypothesis, parents should bias offspring sex ratios toward the dispersing sex in order to minimize competition for local resources. In contrast, the local resource enhancement (or "production of helpers") hypothesis states that parents should overproduce the nondispersing sex if the presence of relatives enhances reproductive success. I examined these models in a Costa Rican population of White-throated Magpie-Jays (Calocitta formosa), a cooperatively breeding corvid with female helpers. Using DNA microsatellite analysis, I sexed 135 offspring from 38 broods and 14 groups over 3 years. I tested for variation in offspring sex ratio at the population level and as a function of social group, helper number, breeding female, and season. Unlike studies of the Seychelles Warbler (Acrocephalus sechellensis), one of the few other avian species with primarily female helpers, I found no evidence for systematic sex-ratio bias supporting either hypothesis. This suggests that female-biased helping is not a sufficient condition for the evolution of offspring sex-ratio biasing. /// Estudios recientes sugieren que muchas especies de aves pueden hacer variar el cociente de sexos de sus cras. Se han utilizado dos modelos tericos para explicar esta variacin en las aves que se reproducen en forma cooperativa, en las cuales los adultos ayudan a los padres genticos con el cuidado de sus cras. Segn la hiptesis de competencia por recursos locales, los padres deben sesgar el cociente de sexos de su prole en favor del sexo que se dispersa con el fin de minimizar la competencia por los recursos locales. Por el contrario, segn la hiptesis de incremento de recursos locales (o "produccin de ayudantes"), los padres deben sobreproducir el sexo que no se dispersa si la presencia de parientes favorece el xito reproductivo. Yo estudi estos modelos en una poblacin costarricense de urracas (Calocitta formosa), un crvido de reproduccin cooperativa con ayudantes hembras. Utilic anlisis de ADN microsatelital para averiguar el sexo de 135 cras provenientes de 38 nidadas y 14 grupos a lo largo de un perodo de tres aos. Document las variaciones en el cociente de sexos de las cras a nivel poblacional y como funcin del grupo social, la cantidad de ayudantes, la hembra reproductiva y la estacin del ao. A diferencia de lo encontrado para el caso de Acrocephalus sechellensis, una de las pocas especies de aves con ayudantes principalmente hembras, no encontr indicios de sesgo sistemtico en el cociente de sexos que avalara ninguna de las dos hiptesis. Esto sugiere que la ayuda por parte de las hembras no constituye una condicin que determine la evolucin de un sesgo en el cociente de sexos de las cras. 
10.2307/1367558| The species composition and characteristics of prey consumed by sympatrically breeding Adlie, Chinstrap, and Gentoo penguins were determined by analysis of whole stomachs collected at Point Thomas, King George Island, South Shetland Islands, Antarctica (6210S, 5830W) during the 1977-1978 breeding season. All three penguins consumed primarily one species of euphausiid, Euphausia superba, although Gentoo Penguins ate significantly more fish, Pleurogramma antarcticum, than either Adlie or Chinstrap penguins. E. crystallorophias, and pelagic and benthic species of amphipods were minor components of the pygoscelid diet. The penguins differed in euphausiid size and in the ratios of male, female, and adolescent euphausiids eaten. These differences were consistent over the entire reproductive cycle. In addition, the species differed in the wet weight of fish consumed by Gentoo Penguins, and in the length of euphausiids consumed by Adlie Penguins. We suggest that these differences in diets are due, in part, to geographical and temporal differences in feeding areas and habitats. 
4096545| Identification of habitat features influencing reproduction and survival are essential for the management and long-term viability of grassland bird populations. I quantified vegetation structure at nests and random sites in southern Saskatchewan, Canada, to determine which microhabitat features are important in nest-site selection by Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii), Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), Baird's Sparrow (Ammodramus bairdii), Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus), and Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta). In addition, I related microhabitat features to nest survival to determine whether predation might influence their choice of nest sites. Grassland passerines exhibited nonrandom nest-placement patterns and built their nests in sites that were characterized by a greater density of dead vegetation within 30 cm of the ground, increased amounts of litter, and reduced coverage of bare ground. In addition, each species nested in taller vegetation than that found at random sites. However, nests were partitioned along a vegetation gradient ranging from relatively short and sparse (e.g., Chestnut-collared Longspur) to relatively tall and dense (e.g., Western Meadowlark). Nest survival varied with time-specific variables (nest age and date) and year, with nest-site vegetation explaining additional variation not accounted for by these effects. However, vegetation effects were highly variable compared to age effects. Diverse predator communities, spatial and temporal variation in selection pressures, and other constraints may account for inconsistent relationships between nest survival and nest-site characteristics for grassland passerines. /// La identificacin de las caractersticas del ambiente que influencian la reproduccin y la supervivencia son esenciales para el manejo y la viabilidad al largo plazo de las poblaciones de las aves de pastizal. Cuantifiqu la estructura de la vegetacin alrededor de los nidos y en sitios aleatorios en el sur de Saskatchewan, Canad, para determinar cules rasgos micro-ambientales son importantes en la seleccin de nidos por parte de Anthus spragueii, Passerculus sandwichensis, Ammodramus bairdii, Calcarius ornatus y Sturnella neglecta. Adicionalmente, relacion los rasgos micro-ambientales con la supervivencia de los nidos para determinar si la depredacin podra influir sobre la eleccin de los sitios de nidificacin. Las aves paserinas de pastizal mostraron patrones no aleatorios de ubicacin de los nidos y construyeron sus nidos en sitios que se caracterizaron por una densidad ms alta de vegetacin muerta en los primeros 30 cm desde el suelo, una mayor cantidad de hojarasca y una baja cobertura de suelo desnudo. Adicionalmente, cada especie nidific en sitios con vegetacin ms alta que la de los sitios elegidos al azar. Sin embargo, los nidos se distribuyeron a lo largo de un gradiente de vegetacin desde relativamente corta y esparcida (e.g., Calcarius ornatus) a relativamente alta y densa (e.g., Sturnella neglecta). La supervivencia de los nidos vari en relation con variables que dependen del tiempo (edad del nido y fecha) y del ao, mientras que la vegetacin de los sitios donde se ubicaron los nidos explic una parte adicional de la variacin no explicada por estos factores. Sin embargo, los efectos de la vegetacin fueron muy variables comparados de modo general con los efectos de la edad. Las diferencias en las comunidades de depredadores, la variacin espacial y temporal en las presiones de seleccin y otras limitantes podran explicar las relaciones inconsistentes entre la supervivencia de los nidos y las caractersticas de los sitios de nidificacin para las aves paserinas de pastizal. 
4096520| An investigation of nest predation and associated foraging behaviors by resident Common Ravens (Corvus corax) indicated that occupation of heronries, predation of Great Egret (Ardea alba) nests, duration of patrol flights, landing rates, and number of interactions with ardeids varied with the productivity of resident ravens. Annual increases in raven predatory behaviors were consistent with increases in foraging experience for a few to several years after ravens became resident at colony sites. However, overall nest predation did not increase at three sites from 1999-2004, and at one of these sites, predation did not differ from levels measured before ravens were resident, suggesting that ravens may have interfered with the nest predatory activities of other species. Ravens at one colony site obtained most or all of their energy needs from the heronry. Predation of Great Egret nestlings was most likely 14-29 days after first hatch, when parental attendance begins to decline. Regional monitoring of heronries in the San Francisco Bay area, California, indicated highly variable rates of nest predation by Common Ravens and a low overall presence of ravens, even though ravens occurred throughout the region. Implications for conservation include the potential value of manipulating raven reproduction to limit nest predation, exclusion of other nest predators by resident ravens, annual increases in nest predatory behaviors, and the importance of regional monitoring to substantiate concerns about raven predation. /// Una investigacin de la depredacin de nidos y de las conductas asociadas de cuervos de la especie Corvus corax indicaron que la ocupacin de colonias de garzas, la depredacin de los nidos de Ardea alba, la duracin de los vuelos de patrullaje, las tasas de aterrizaje y el nmero de interacciones con ardeidos vari con la productividad de los cuervos residentes. Los incrementos anuales de las conductas depredadoras de los cuervos fueron consistentes con los aumentos en la experiencia de forrajeo de unos pocos a varios aos, a partir de que los cuervos se incorporaron como residentes en las colonias. Sin embargo, la depredacin global de nidos no increment en los tres sitios entre 1999 y 2004, y en uno de los sitios la depredacin no vari con relacin a los niveles medidos antes de que los cuervos fueran residentes, lo que sugiere que los cuervos pueden haber interferido con las actividades de depredacin de nidos de otras especies. Los cuervos de una colonia obtuvieron la mayora o todas sus necesidades energticas de las colonias de garzas. La depredacin de los pichones fue ms probable entre los 14 y los 29 das luego de la primera eclosin, cuando la asistencia de los padres comienza a disminuir. El monitoreo regional de las garzas en el rea de la baha de San Francisco, California, indic la existencia de tasas de depredacin de nidos por parte de C. corax altamente variables y una presencia general baja de cuervos, aunque estas aves estuvieron presentes en toda la regin. Las implicancias para la conservacin incluyen el valor potencial de manipular la reproduccin de C. corax para limitar la depredacin de nidos, la exclusin de otros depredadores de nidos por parte de cuervos residentes, incrementos anuales en comportamientos de depredacin de nidos y la importancia del monitoreo regional para verificar las preocupaciones sobre la depredacin de nidos. 
10.2307/1369515|In montane forests of the western United States, a general correlation of accipiter body size and scaling of the vegetation component of nesting sites and nest trees used by sympatric Accipiter species has been reported. We evaluated this pattern with vegetation data collected at Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis), Cooper's Hawk (A. cooperii), and Sharp-shinned Hawk (A. striatus) nest sites in the Jemez Mountains and Pajarito Plateau of north-central New Mexico. We selected habitat variables at the nest tree and nest site scale that would allow us to evaluate the prediction that accipiters use nesting habitat in which their body size is positively correlated with tree size and tree spacing, and inversely correlated with tree density, basal area, and percent canopy closure. At the nest-site level, density of larger diameter trees should be positively correlated with body size, and density of smaller diameter trees should be inversely correlated with body size. Our results suggest that nest tree height and diameter support body size predictions about nesting habitat for accipiter hawks. None of the nest-site parameters measured in this study supported the body size predictions due to a large amount of intra-specific variation. As a result of this variation, it was difficult to differentiate between Cooper's Hawk and Northern Goshawk nest sites for most site variables. These results suggest there is a correlation between accipiter size and nest tree size, but that a correlation between nest site structural size and accipiter body size may not be a widespread phenomenon for all vegetation variables for all three species. Many commonly measured forest stand structural characteristics such as basal area and total tree densities may not be adequate for predicting suitable accipiter nesting habitat in all areas, particularly in the absence of comparisons with available habitat.
10.2307/1369147|Radio tracking via satellite was initiated to study the year-round movements of Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos canadensis) breeding on the east coast of Hudson Bay, Quebec. In June and August 1992, six Golden Eagles (five adults and one juvenile) were marked, three of which completed their year-round movements. The eagles left their breeding area in mid- to late October and migrated to known wintering areas in the eastern United States. They used different routes but each followed the same general path during fall and spring migrations, which lasted between 26 and 40 days, and 25 and 51 days, respectively. Eagles wintered from 93 to 135 days in areas located 1,650 to 3,000 km south of their breeding territory. In spring 1993, satellite telemetry located the eagles in their former breeding territory in late March, mid-April and early May. This study confirms previous suggestions that some breeding Golden Eagles wintering in eastern United States come from northern Quebec and describes the first successful tracking of the complete yearly migration cycle of a bird of prey.
1369675|We studied the ecological distribution and foraging behavior of three species in the Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens) species group in the Eastern Highlands of Chiapas, Mexico. The three species, Black-throated Green, Hermit (D. occidentalis) and Townsend's (D. townsendi) Warblers are largely allopatric on the breeding grounds and variably sympatric during the winter. We surveyed the composition of 166 mixed-species flocks and recorded habitat variables associated with the flock location along an elevational transect. We found that Black-throated Green and Townsend's Warblers segregated by altitude, whereas Hermit Warbler overlapped extensively with both other species. Even though Townsend's and Hermit Warblers co-occurred commonly in the same flocks, the latter showed strong selective use of pine trees and the former showed weaker selectivity of oak trees. Black-throated Green Warbler showed no tree-type selection. The combined differences in elevational distribution and tree-type use resulted in very low ecological overlap for the three species. The Black-throated Green Warbler was the most distinct in its foraging behavior, occurring more often in the outer and upper branches of trees, and using hanging, aerial, and hovering maneuvers more than its congeners. In addition, it showed a higher movement frequency and a lower rate of between-branch flights. The Black-throated Green Warbler also is the most morphologically distinct as a result of its overall smaller body size, which is consistent for the trend towards larger body size in more conifer-specialized species in this genus. We propose that as new breeding populations were founded, and speciation occurred, individuals of the more derived species occupied decreasingly productive winter habitats.
1370577| It is usually accepted that generalist brood parasites should avoid using hosts larger than themselves because host chicks may outcompete parasite chicks for food. We studied the interactions between the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) and two common hosts larger than the parasite, the Chalk-browed Mockingbird (Mimus saturninus) and the Rufous-bellied Thrush (Turdus rufiventris). For each host we determined (1) frequency and intensity of parasitism during the breeding season, (2) nesting success, egg survival, hatching success, and chick survival in unparasitized and parasitized nests, and (3) antiparasitic defenses. We also determined Shiny Cowbird egg survival, hatching success, and chick survival in both hosts. Parasitism reached 50% in mockingbirds and 66% in thrushes. In both species the main cost of parasitism was egg destruction through punctures. Hatching success, survival of host chicks, and nest survival did not differ between unparasitized and parasitized nests. Both hosts rejected parasitic white-morph eggs but accepted spotted-morph ones, even though they were significantly smaller than host eggs. The proportion of cowbirds fledged per egg laid in successful mockingbird and thrush nests was 0.4 and 0.6, respectively. Considering nest survival, reproductive success of Shiny Cowbirds was 0.15 in mockingbird nests and 0.17 in thrush nests. These values are similar to or higher than cowbird success with smaller hosts. Our results indicate that host quality is not only determined by host-parasite differences in body size, and that other factors, such as host defenses and nest survivorship, should be considered. /// Es aceptado generalmente que los parsitos de cra generalistas deberan evitar utilizar hospedadores de mayor tamao corporal porque los pichones del hospedador podran desplazar a sus pichones en la competencia por alimento. Se estudiaron las interacciones entre Molothrus bonariensis y dos hospedadores frecuentes de mayor tamao que el parsito, Mimus saturninus y Turdus rufiventris. Para cada hospedador se determin (1) frecuencia e intensidad de parasitismo durante la temporada reproductiva, (2) xito de nidificacin, supervivencia de huevos, xito de eclosin y supervivencia de pichones en nidos no parasitados y parasitados, y (3) defensas antiparasitarias. Tambin se determin el xito reproductivo del parsito en ambos hospedadores. El porcentaje de nidos parasitados fue 50% en Mimus saturninus y 66% en Turdus rufiventris. En ambas especies, el principal costo del parasitismo fue la destruccin de huevos por picaduras. El xito de eclosin, la supervivencia de pichones y el xito de nidificacin fueron semejantes entre nidos no parasitados y parasitados. Ambos hospedadores rechazaron los huevos parsitos del morfo blanco pero aceptaron los del morfo manchado, si bien stos fueron de menor tamao que los del hospedador. La proporcin de volantones de Molothrus bonariensis por huevo puesto en nidos exitosos de Mimus saturninus y Turdus rufiventris fue 0.4 y 0.6, respectivamente. Considerando la supervivencia de los nidos, el xito reproductivo fue 0.15 en Mimus saturninus y 0.17 en Turdus rufiventris. Estos valores son similares o mayores que los reportados para hospedadores de menor tamao que el parsito. Nuestros resultados indican que la calidad del hospedador no est slo determinada por las diferencias en tamao corporal entre el hospedador y el parsito y que otros factores, como defensas del hospedador y supervivencia de los nidos, deberan ser considerados. 
10.2307/1368761|The conservative song development of suboscine birds may make them better subjects than the song-learning oscines for studying the genetic evolution of vocal behaviors. We used the Cocos Flycatcher (Nesotriccus ridgwayi) from Cocos Island, about 500 km southwest of Costa Rica in the eastern Pacific Ocean, to test whether isolation in a depauperate avifauna has reduced song stereotypy. Males sang two song forms and females one form. Measures of both temporal and frequency parameters for the three song forms revealed that variability of songs within and among individuals was not different from that of either a close relative in species-rich South America or two distantly related Empidonax flycatchers in species-poor North America. Thus, the impoverished acoustic environment apparently has not markedly affected the song stereotypy of the Cocos Flycatcher. Singing behavior of the Cocos Flycatcher was unusual, however, in that the female initiated and concluded most singing interactions with her mate and sang about twice as many songs as did the male. The significance of this reversed singing role of the two sexes is unclear.
10.1525/cond.2012.110051|Foraging-patch selection may be influenced by prey density, prey availability, and the energetic costs associated with searching for and capturing prey. Although prey density influences profitability, prey availability may be influenced by habitat and environmental characteristics. We made in situ observations of Snail Kites (
10.2307/1368489|In 1984, 94 complete three-egg clutches of Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) eggs were collected on Granite Island, northern Lake Superior. The fresh eggs (i.e., collected within 12 hr of being laid) were weighed, measured and frozen for later chemical analysis to determine if relationships existed between egg size, composition, and sequence. Egg size and mass decreased through the laying sequence. The average composition of fresh eggs was 35% yolk, 56% albumen, and 9% shell. Water accounted for 69% of fresh egg mass. Approximately 8% of fresh egg mass was yolk lipid. Dry yolk consisted of approximately 40% protein and 60% lipid. Caloric content averaged 1.55 kcal/g fresh egg mass. Within clutches, third-laid eggs contained absolutely less albumen and nutrients than earlier laid eggs. Albumen increased in proportion to the 1.2 power of egg mass, and the yolk in proportion slightly greater than the 0.66 power of egg mass. Results agreed well with egg composition studies of other semiprecocial species.
1370536| In this issue, Jenni and Winkler, Piersma, Thompson, and Willoughby offer commentaries on our modifications (Howell et al. 2003) to the Humphrey-Parkes system for naming molts and plumages (Humphrey and Parkes 1959; the H-P system). Piersma generally accepts our revision and outlines how its use could improve our ability to understand other cyclic life-history phenomena. Both Jenni and Winkler and Willoughby disagree with the philosophy of the H-P system, particularly its ability to reveal homologies. Thompson accepts the H-P system but argues that our elaboration on the system is faulty. However, we believe that despite a diversity of opinion concerning our proposal there is much common ground, including agreement regarding the homology of juvenal and basic plumages across species and the utility of the new term "formative." The main points we review here are the potential dichotomy between homologies of molt and homologies of plumage coloration; the caution that should be applied when using plumage coloration to identify presumed homologous molts; and a clarification of definitions of plumage, molt, and the first plumage cycle. We remain convinced that our modified version of the H-P system represents a significant improvement in terminology, and will better reflect the homologies of molts. /// En este nmero, Jenni y Winkler, Piersma, Thompson y Willoughby ofrecen comentarios sobre nuestras modificaciones (Howell et al. 2003) al sistema Humphrey-Parkes para nombrar las mudas y los plumajes (el sistema H-P; Humphrey and Parkes 1959). Piersma en general acepta nuestra revisin y esboza cmo su uso podra mejorar nuestra habilidad para entender otros fenmenos cclicos de las historias de vida. Tanto Jenni y Winkler como Willoughby estn en desacuerdo con la filosofa del sistema H-P, particularmente en cuanto a su habilidad para revelar homologas. Thompson acepta el sistema H-P, pero aduce que nuestra elaboracin sobre ste es errnea. Sin embargo, creemos que a pesar de la diversidad de opiniones en torno a nuestra propuesta existen muchos puntos en los que convenimos, incluyendo la homologa de los plumajes juveniles y bsicos a travs de las especies y la utilidad del nuevo trmino formativo. Los puntos principales que aqu revisamos son la dicotoma potencial entre las homologas de la muda y las homologas de la coloracin del plumaje, la cautela que debe tenerse al usar la coloracin del plumaje para identificar mudas presuntamente homlogas y una clarificacin de nuestras definiciones de plumaje, muda y el primer ciclo del plumage. Seguimos convencidos de que nuestra versin modificada del sistema H-P representa un mejoramiento significativo en la terminologa, que reflejar mejor las homologas de las mudas. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090026|Migratory shorebirds frequently forage and roost in agricultural habitats, where they may be exposed to cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides. Exposure to organophosphorus and carbamate compounds, common anti-cholinesterases, can cause sublethal effects, even death. To evaluate exposure of migratory shorebirds to organophosphorus and carbamates, we sampled birds stopping over during migration in North America and wintering in South America. We compared plasma cholinesterase activities and body masses of individuals captured at sites with no known sources of organophosphorus or carbamates to those captured in agricultural areas where agrochemicals were recommended for control of crop pests. In South America, plasma acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase activity in Buff-breasted Sandpipers was lower at agricultural sites than at reference sites, indicating exposure to organophosphorus and carbamates. Results of plasma cholinesterase reactivation assays and foot-wash analyses were inconclusive. A meta-analysis of six species revealed no widespread effect of agricultural chemicals on cholinesterase activity. However, four of six species were negative for acetylcholinesterase and one of six for butyrylcholinesterase, indicating negative effects of pesticides on cholinesterase activity in a subset of shorebirds. Exposure to cholinesterase inhibitors can decrease body mass, but comparisons between treatments and hemispheres suggest that agrochemicals did not affect migratory shorebirds' body mass. Our study, one of the first to estimate of shorebirds' exposure to cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides, suggests that shorebirds are being exposed to cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides at specific sites in the winter range but not at migratory stopover sites. Future research should examine potential behavioral effects of exposure and identify other potential sites and levels of exposure.
10.2307/1366816|We studied Southern Black-backed, or Kelp, Gulls (Larus dominicanus) at Palmer Station, Antarctica during two breeding seasons to document the role of each sex in the reproductive effort and to determine how these gulls have adapted their behavior to the Antarctic environment. The breeding colony was small (19 pairs) and gulls defended a shoreline feeding territory adjacent to their nest site. During all stages of the breeding cycle, both sexes were inactive (up to 70% of the total time budget) during most of the time they were on territory. Little time (0-6.9%) was spent flying, walking, swimming, nest building, courting, or in agonistic behaviors by either sex. While producing eggs, females spent more time inactive and less time foraging, gathering nest materials, flying, and off territory than their mates. At this time, females received much of their food via courtship feeding by males. Females spent more time incubating (59.3% vs. 40%) than males. As chicks demanded more food, parents spent more time (up to 69%) foraging off territory. Males played a more active role than their mates in territory defense. Agonistic behaviors were more frequent in the "high" density area of the colony where intruders onto territories were more numerous. Both sexes spent a high proportion of time (up to 86%) near (within 5 m) the nest during laying and incubation periods. This proportion dropped steadily through the chick rearing period to a low of 13% as chicks neared fledging. The time budget patterns we observed, in combination with defense of feeding territories, apparently allowed the gulls to reduce energy expenditures in the harsh environment while simultaneously spending much time near the nest during periods when it was most vulnerable to predation.
10.2307/1367824|Habitat use by Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) was studied in north-central Montana during 1978 and 1979. Mountain Plovers were found to selectively inhabit black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) towns. Horizontal visibility and bare ground were significantly greater inside prairie dog towns used by plovers than adjacent areas. Total plant cover and grass cover were significantly lower inside prairie dog towns than on adjacent areas. Most towns on the study area were associated with an area that was intensively grazed by cattle. Plovers used only the active towns larger than 3 ha located on level upland sites (n = 16 out of 35).
10.1525/cond.2013.120123|Pleistocene refugia likely contributed to the modern biodiversity of northern areas. Using the mitochondrial DNA cytochrome-
10.1525/cond.2011.100058|Geographically isolated populations diverging in vocalizations and habitat use are prime candidates for diversification along the speciation/differentiation continuum. The Tawny-bellied Seedeater
10.2307/1369314| Oxygen consumption (VO<sub>2</sub>) and body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>) of young Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) were measured during late incubation and in the first 24 hr after hatching at ambient temperatures (T<sub>a</sub>) between 28 and 38C and between 15 and 43C, respectively. Evaporative cooling by hatchlings at T<sub>a</sub> of 36-43C was also measured. Significant increases in embryonic metabolic level occurred between external and internal pipping and between internal pipping and establishment of a pip hole. However, despite the improving access to oxygen produced by these events, VO<sub>2</sub> and T<sub>b</sub> both varied directly with T<sub>a</sub> in an ectothermic pattern throughout the final stages of incubation. A capacity for sustained endothermy only became apparent in hatchlings. Their VO<sub>2</sub> varied inversely with T<sub>a</sub> between 27.5 and 36C to an extent indicating a modest capacity for regulatory thermogenesis. This served to maintain T<sub>b</sub> above 35C in this range of T<sub>a</sub>. The apparent abruptness of the appearance of this regulatory capacity after hatching suggests that emergence from the physical confinement of the egg could be an important proximate factor in the establishment of endothermy in this semi-precocial species. Hatchling Sooty Terns underwent a progressive fall in T<sub>b</sub> with declining T<sub>a</sub> below 27.5C. On the other hand, they appeared quite proficient at evaporative cooling with increasing T<sub>a</sub> between 36 and 43C. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090078|To document nest survival and habitat differences in the nesting habitats of Clapper Rails (
10.2307/1369097|Thick-billed Parrots (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha) once ranged as far north as central Arizona, but have rarely been seen outside Mexico since the 1920s. Extirpation from the United States may have resulted mainly from widespread shooting. Experimental releases of the species in Arizona since 1986 have yielded mixed results. Birds obtained as wild-caught adults have exhibited good survival and some reproduction in the wild. Captive-reared birds have had poor survival rates due mainly to deficits in foraging and socialization, and to heavy losses to predators. Although parent-reared, captive-bred birds have performed better than hand-reared birds, and young captive-bred birds have done better than older captive-bred birds, the only birds showing good potentials for reestablishment have been translocated wild-caught adults. Present habitat quality in southern Arizona appears adequate to support a population of these parrots, but it is questionable that the species might sustain consistent populations north of the range of Chihuahua pine (Pinus leiophylla). Thick-billed Parrots appear to be highly dependent on flocking for security from predation, so their successful reestablishment may depend directly on the numbers of birds released. Principal natural enemies of the species in Arizona have been Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis), Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), and ring-tailed cats (Bassariscus astutus)--species that also occur through much of the Thick-billed Parrot's range in Mexico.
10.2307/1369039|At the largest known Emperor Penguin colony, we determined general features of Emperor Penguin foraging commutes. The time selected for the study was one month before fledging, when maximum growth of the chicks occurs. Time/depth recorders were attached and retrieved from five adults as they departed from and returned to the colony. Nearly 16,000 dives were logged, of which 7,562 were estimated to be for foraging. Duration of the commutes averaged 14.9 days during which the birds averaged a total of 3,188 dives or 213 dives per day. Dives <200 m occurred at any time through the 24 hr cycle, and dives >400 m were restricted to 05:00 to 19:00 hr. The deepest dive was 534 m and the longest was 15.8 min to a depth <50 m. The modal depth of foraging dives was between 21 to 40 m, and the modal duration was between 4 and 5 min. Descent and ascent depth change rates were influenced by the maximum depth of the dive, but usually for dives >100 m the rates fell between 1.0 to 2.0 m sec<sup>-1</sup>. The rates never exceeded 2.5 m sec<sup>-1</sup>. Bottom time fraction was 0.22 to 0.28 of total dive time, for dives >100 m. Although few in number, occurrence of dives >450 m appeared consistently during the commute of every bird and suggests some important but unknown function. Because dives >400 m occurred only during high sun periods, it is proposed that such dives may not occur during the austral winter night. From behavioral data it appears that the aerobic dive limit (ADL) of about 8 min is nearly twice the calculated ADL. If this is so, then <5% of all dives exceed the ADL. Diving efficiency derived from diving and surface time in relation to bottom time declines by 50% between 100 m and 300 m dives.
10.2307/1369031|Studies of reproductive bioenergetics in Anatidae have focused primarily on females, but reproductive effort of males is significant and of critical importance to the breeding success of their mates. We studied dynamics of nutrient reserves of breeding male Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) in Alabama and Georgia to examine whether males used endogenous lipid and protein to help meet energy demands of reproduction. We also investigated variation in prebasic molt and testis mass of males in relation to breeding status. Carcass mass of males was greatest in February and declined during the laying and incubation periods of their mates. Reductions in carcass mass were due largely to changes in stored lipids, but carcass protein also declined. Lipids declined 123 g (79%) from February to late incubation; most of this loss (106 g; 86%) occurred from February to laying. The absolute amount and proportion of stored lipids used by breeding males were similar to that of breeding females (Drobney 1982). Protein declined from January (162 g) to late incubation (139 g) and remained low in late summer. Prebasic molt of males began while their mates were nesting, but timing and intensity of molt varied greatly among males. Molt score of males accompanying laying and incubating females was not correlated with testis mass. Testis mass peaked during laying and remained high through late incubation before declining in late summer.
10.2307/1370013|Phylogenetic studies based on mitochondrial DNA sequences of 10 species of wrens in Troglodytes and related genera suggest a new hypothesis of relationships for the group. The Winter Wren (T. troglodytes) and the anomalous Timberline Wren (Thryorchilus browni) are distantly related to the remainder of Troglodytes. The latter group divides into a tropical montane group and a northern/lowland group that includes the northernmost two montane taxa (T. rufociliatus, T. brunneicollis). Erection of the genus Nannus for the Winter Wren is proposed. Song evolution in the complex has involved either convergent derivation or retention of primitive song types in distant lineages.
10.2307/1367059| Daily and seasonal colony attendance patterns and census techniques for Crested (Aethia cristatella), Least (A. pusilla), and Whiskered (A. pygmaea) auklets were examined at Buldir Island, Alaska. Two daily peaks in colony activity were found throughout the breeding season: the first in the morning and early afternoon and the second just before dark. A new technique for estimating auklet populations was developed, based on the net movement of birds to and from the talus nesting area during the two peaks of activity. The new "Net Movement" technique yielded considerably higher estimates than those obtained using Bdard's (1969) method of estimating auklet populations by observation. Both techniques have advantages and disadvantages for censusing auklets, depending on circumstances. 
10.2307/1367667|The effects of human disturbance on Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) nestling behavior were studied at the Dead Neck Island (Barnstable Co., Massachusetts) heronry in June and July, 1980. Nestling response to disturbance was compared between three-week old chicks that had been regularly handled since hatching, and control nestlings. Every control nestling moved some distance from the nest during the observation period, whereas all experimental chicks remained in the nest. Mean distance traveled by control birds was 1.0 m (range 0.2 to 3.6 m). Experimental chicks became habituated to frequent handling, whereas a single, intense disturbance elicited escape behavior in control nestlings. Weights of three-week old control and experimental nestlings were not significantly different. Repercussions of altered chick behavior in experimental animals are discussed and results compared to other studies.
10.2307/1367417|The Sage Sparrow breeds in large expanses of continuous sagebrush in southern Idaho. Analyses of the song syllables and shared syllable sequences of 40 males from five main study sites in Idaho revealed that individuals tended to be most similar to birds from the same population. Each male had one stereotyped song with only minor variations consisting of the omission of a few syllables from the end of the song. Three males apparently had the same song and same or nearly the same territory for three or four years. The most geographically distant population from the other four populations had the most distinct songs. However, neighbors on adjacent territories were not usually most similar to each other. Several syllables were widespread among males while uncommon syllables were often shared among males within a population. Stepwise discriminant analysis of ten variables from the same populations revealed that mean syllable duration and mean interval between syllables contained enough information to successfully assign 62.5% of the songs to the population to which they belonged. Six of an additional 10 songs recorded at five other sites in southern Idaho were classified into the main population geographically closest.
10.1525/cond.2013.120047|We describe the songs and courtship displays of three closely related hummingbirds, the Peruvian Sheartail (
4151035| In a recent paper on Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) interannual site fidelity (Iverson et al. 2004), we concluded that wintering populations were demographically structured at a finer geographic scale than that at which genetic differentiation was observed and that conservation efforts should recognize this degree of demographic independence. In a critique of our study, Pearce and Talbot (2006) contend that our measures of fidelity were not robust and imply that in the face of "mixed messages" we failed to appreciate the role of genetic data in defining population units. We recognize, as we did in our original paper, that our methods for quantifying site fidelity have some limitations; however, the patterns in our data are consistent with a considerable body of literature indicating high winter site fidelity in Harlequin Ducks. Moreover, we do not consider differences in the scales at which genetic and demographic structure are expressed to be "mixed messages," given the different spatial and temporal scales at which genetic and contemporary demographic processes operate. We emphasize that a lack of genetic differentiation does not necessarily preclude the existence of contemporary demographic structure with relevance for conservation. /// En una publicacin reciente sobre fidelidad internanual al sitio por parte de Histrionicus histrionicus (Iverson et al. 2004), concluimos que las poblaciones de invierno se encontraban estructuradas demogrficamente a una escala geogrfica menor que a la que se observa diferenciacin gentica, y que los esfuerzos puestos en conservacin deberan considerar este grado de independencia demogrfica. En una crtica a nuestro estudio, Pearce y Talbot (2006) argumentan que nuestras medidas de fidelidad no fueron robustas, implicando que, enfrentados a "mensajes mixtos", nosotros no apreciamos el papel de los datos genticos en definir unidades poblacionales. Como lo hicimos en nuestra primera publicacin, reconocemos que nuestros mtodos para cuantificar la fidelidad al sitio tienen algunas limitaciones, pero los patrones en nuestros datos concuerdan con una vasta literatura que indica una alta fidelidad al sitio de invierno en H. histrionicus. Adems, no consideramos que las diferencias en las escalas a las cuales se expresan las estructuras genticas y demogrficas sean "mensajes mixtos", dadas las diferentes escalas a las que operan los procesos genticos y demogrficos. Enfatizamos que la falta de diferenciacin gentica no excluye la existencia de estructura demogrfica contempornea que puede tener relevancia para la conservacin. 
10.2307/1367563|Both Bank and Barn swallow embryos show an exponential increase in oxygen consumption (M
10.2307/1366826|I compared the nests of Eastern White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys leucophrys) from a subarctic area in Manitoba, Canada, Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Z. l. oriantha) from subalpine meadows in California and Colorado, and Nuttall's White-crowned Sparrows (Z. l. nuttalli) from the coast of California. The nests were open bowls lined with fine grasses. They had a more or less bulky frame of twigs, the woody stems of shrubs, leaves, bark, and/or coarse grasses. Small amounts of many other items were buried in them. The adults of these races are about the same size, but their nests are not. Nests of Z. l. oriantha were the largest, those of Z. l. leucophrys the smallest, and those of Z. l. nuttalli intermediate in size. Mountain White-crowned Sparrows build on and above the ground: their elevated nests were much larger than their ground nests. All nests blocked out 96-99% of air currents to which they were exposed. This characteristic is particularly well-suited to the windy conditions that prevail on the breeding grounds. The nest's overall thermal conductance was significantly higher in Z. l. leucophrys than in the other races, even though Z. l. leucophrys nest under colder and wetter ambient conditions than the other two. They build their nests in the ground, however, which probably provides additional insulation and certainly reduces exposure to drafts. Thermal conductance was significantly related to the nest's mass and several of its dimensions, but was not simply a function of nest size. For example, the thermal conductance of the nest wall depended on the wall's porosity, but not on its thickness. Thermal conductance is not only a quantitative measure of the nest's insulation, but also it can be used to estimate the energetic cost of incubation.
1370543| The Bay Wren (Thryothorus nigricapillus) is distributed from Costa Rica to Ecuador and includes seven described subspecies, five of which occur in the Caribbean lowlands of Panama. The subspecies vary in plumage characters, with particularly striking differences between Bay Wrens from western Panama (to the north), and eastern Panama (to the south). We surveyed mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence variation from a geographically broad sample of Bay Wrens and compared the phylogeographic structure of mtDNA diversity with previously described patterns of morphological variation. The mtDNA-based phylogeographic reconstructions revealed a basal split separating populations in far eastern Panama and South America from those in central Panama through Costa Rica. These two clades are concordant with previous morphology-based groupings of T. nigricapillus subspecies into the "castaneus group" (costaricensis, odicus, castaneus, and reditus) and the "nigricapillus group" (schottii, connectens, and nigricapillus). Morphological intergradation between the two groups takes place in central Panama, but all intergrades possess the mtDNA haplotype of the castaneus group, suggesting that mitochondrial gene flow is introgressing from west to east. In spite of the marked body size and plumage variation present among subspecies of the castaneus group, mtDNA variation within this group was low. At a deeper phylogenetic level, the mtDNA data support recognition of the Riverside Wren, T. semibadius, as a full species. This taxon has sometimes been considered conspecific with T. nigricapillus, but the high mtDNA divergence between these species is consistent with previous suggestions that the morphological similarity results from convergence in plumage traits. /// Thryothorus nigricapillus se distribuye desde Costa Rica hasta Ecuador e incluye siete subespecies, de las cuales cinco se encuentran en las tierras bajas caribeas de Panam. Las subespecies varan en plumaje, con diferencias particularmente notables entre Thryothorus nigricapillus del occidente de Panam (hacia el norte), y aquellas del oriente de Panam (hacia el sur). Examinamos la variacin entre secuencias de ADN mitocondrial (mtADN) de una muestra geogrficamente amplia de Thryothorus nigricapillus y comparamos la estructura filogeogrfica de la diversidad de mtADN con patrones previamente descritos de variacin morfolgica. Las reconstrucciones filogeogrficas basadas en las secuencias de mtADN revelaron una divisin basal entre las poblaciones del este de Panam y Sudamrica, y las poblaciones que se encuentran desde el centro de Panam hasta Costa Rica. Estos dos clados corresponden a las agrupaciones previamente definidas con base en caracteres morfolgicos, dividiendo las subespecies de T. nigricapillus en dos grupos: el "grupo castaneus" (costaricensis, odicus, castaneus y reditus) y el "grupo nigricapillus" (schottii, connectens y nigricapillus). Entre los dos grupos ocurre intergradacin morfolgica en Panam central, pero las formas intermedias tienen haplotipos de mtADN caractersticos del grupos castaneus, sugiriendo que el flujo gentico mitocondrial es introgresivo de oeste a este. A pesar de la notable variacin en tamao corporal y plumaje entre las subespecies del grupo castaneus, la variacin de mtADN dentro de este grupo fue baja. A un nivel filogentico ms profundo, los datos de mtADN apoyan el reconocimiento de T. semibadius como especie. Este taxn ocasionalmente ha sido considerado coespecfico con T. nigricapillus, pero la marcada divergencia a nivel de mtADN entre estas especies es consistente con previas sugerencias de que la semejanza morfolgica es resultado de convergencia en caracteres del plumaje. 
1370350| A spring hunt was implemented on the staging areas of Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica) in Quebec in 1999 and 2000. We evaluated whether this activity, which occurred during the period of spring nutrient storage, may have affected the body condition and reproductive effort of laying geese. We collected laying females in years with a spring hunt (1999-2000, n = 34) and compared them with birds collected in years without a hunt (1989-1990, n = 10). All indices of body condition and clutch size were significantly lower in years with a hunt than in years without, and laying dates were delayed. Tracking of radio-marked females on the staging and breeding areas showed that a lower proportion of females reached the nesting areas in years with a hunt (28% in 1999-2000, n = 80) than in years without (85% in 1997-1998, n = 80) and that fewer females nested (9% vs. 56%, respectively). Our results suggest that the spring hunt negatively affected nesting geese. /// La cacera de primavera fue implementada en reas de escala de Chen caerulescens atlantica en Quebec en 1999 y 2000. Evaluamos si la cacera, que se llev a cabo durante el perodo primaveral de acumulacin de nutrientes, pudo haber afectado la condicin fisica y el esfuerzo reproductivo de los gansos. Colectamos hembras que estuvieran poniendo huevos en aos con cacera de primavera (1999-2000, n = 34) y las comparamos con aves colectadas en aos sin cacera (1989-1990, n = 10). Todos los ndices de la condicin fsica y del tamao de la nidada fueron significativamente menores en aos con cacera que en aos sin cacera, y se retrasaron las fechas de puesta. El seguimiento de hembras marcadas con radio en reas de escala y cra mostr que una menor proporcin lleg a las reas de nidificacin en aos con cacera (28% en 1999-2000, n = 80) que en aos sin cacera (85% en 1997-1998, n = 80), y que menos hembras nidificaron (9% vs. 56%, respectivamente). Nuestros resultados sugieren que la cacera de primavera afecta negativamente a los gansos nidificantes. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090217|Patch-occupancy models offer a realistic approach to monitoring populations of nocturnal owls. However, because most owls are relatively rare, increasing the probability of detecting an owl at an occupied site will make estimates of occupancy more precise. We investigated the influence of temporal, biological, and environmental factors on rates of detection of forest owls in southeastern Alaska, 20052006. Following
10.2307/1369513| A total of 868 active nests of eight species of pigeons and doves (columbids) were found in 210 0.1 ha strip-transects sampled in the three major life zones of Puerto Rico from February 1987 to June 1992. The columbids had a peak in nest density in May and June, with a decline during the July to October flocking period, and an increase from November to April. Predation accounted for 81% of the nest losses observed from 1989 to 1992. Nest cover was the most important microhabitat variable accounting for nest failure or success according to univariate and multivariate comparisons. The daily survival rate estimates of nests constructed on epiphytes were significantly higher than those of nests constructed on the bare branches of trees. Rainfall of the first six months of the year during the study accounted for 67% and 71% of the variability associated with the nest density estimates of the columbids during the reproductive peak in the xerophytic forest of Gunica and dry coastal forest of Cabo Rojo, but only 9% of the variability of the nest density estimates of the columbids in the moist montane second-growth forest patches of Cidra. In 1988, the abundance of fruits of key tree species (nine species combined) was positively correlated with the seasonal changes in nest density of the columbids in the strip-transects of Cayey and Cidra. Pairwise density correlations among the columbids suggested parallel responses of nesting populations to similar or covarying resources in the life zones of Puerto Rico. 
4123197| Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis) are territorial, generally nonmigratory, and strongly philopatric. Nevertheless, California Spotted Owls (S. o. occidentalis) exhibited breeding dispersal during 7% of interannual observations of banded individuals (n = 54 of 743 occasions). Based on ecological theory and published literature, we made a priori predictions about the factors associated with the probability of breeding dispersal and breeding dispersal distance, and about the consequences of dispersal. Breeding dispersal probability was higher for younger owls, single owls, paired owls that lost their mates, owls at lower quality sites, and owls that failed to reproduce in the year preceding dispersal. Sex had little effect on the probability of breeding dispersal. Dispersal distance was similar for female and male owls (median = 7 km, range = 1-33 km). We found no strong relationships between dispersal distance and any of the conditions that were associated with the probability of breeding dispersal. Dispersal resulted in improved territory quality in 72% of cases. These results indicate that breeding dispersal was condition-dependent and adaptive. /// Strix occidentalis es una especie territorial, generalmente no es migratoria, y es marcadamente filoptrica. Sin embargo, S. o. occidentalis mostr dispersin reproductiva en el 7% de las observaciones interanuales de individuos anillados (n = 54 de 743 ocasiones). Basados en la teora ecolgica y en la literatura publicada, hicimos predicciones a priori acerca de los factores asociados con la probabilidad de dispersin reproductiva, con la distancia de dispersin y con las consecuencias de la dispersin. La probabilidad de dispersin reproductiva fue mayor en las lechuzas jvenes, las solitarias, las que haban perdido a su pareja, aquellas en lugares de menor calidad y en las que tuvieron un fracaso reproductivo en al ao previo a la dispersin. El sexo tuvo poco efecto en la probabilidad de dispersin. La distancia de dispersin fue similar en lechuzas hembras y machos (mediana = 7 km, rango = 1-33 km). No observamos una fuerte relacin entre la distancia de dispersin y cualquiera de las circunstancias asociadas con la probabilidad de dispersin. La dispersin result en una mejora de la calidad del territorio en el 72% de los casos. Estos resultados indican que la dispersin reproductiva dependi de las circunstancias y que tuvo un sentido adaptativo. 
10.2307/1367475|The feeding habits of three species of hummingbirds were examined during the summer of 1975 in the highlands of the Chisos Mountains, Big Bend National Park, Texas. The Blue-throated Hummingbird (Lampornis clemenciae), the Broad-tailed Hummingbird (Selasphorus platycercus) and the Rufous Hummingbird (S. rufus) were common in the study area, the first occupying the mesic Cypress-Pine-Oak Association and the other two species inhabiting the Pinyon-Juniper-Oak Woodland. Blue-throated Hummingbirds were almost exclusively insectivorous prior to the flowering of mountain sage (Salvia regla), after which their diet began to include its nectar. Males fed outside their territories in the morning at nectar sources in the juniper woodland. Selasphorus hummingbirds overlapped extensively in diet. S. platycercus was common prior to the full flowering of sage, and migrating S. rufus entered the area later, when the sage was in bloom. Males of both species typically established territories around large patches of the sage and open areas while females were relegated to smaller Salvia stands in the woodlands. Such a pattern is apparently maintained by the aggressiveness of the dominant males.
10.2307/1370432|We tested concentration preferences of Rufous Hummingbirds (Selasphorus rufus) offered sucrose solutions in small feeders in the field. When sucrose solutions differing in increments of 10%, from 10% to 70%, were presented simultaneously, hummingbirds preferred 50% to higher and lower concentrations. They did not show a significant preference in the range from 50% to 70%. When options were offered in pairs of choices differing from 1-25%, hummingbirds demonstrated statistically significant preferences that varied with mean concentration in a curvilinear manner. At concentrations approximating those of hummingbird-pollinated flowers (20%), hummingbirds showed greatest specificity and could distinguish solutions differing by only 1%. At concentrations above and below 20%, greater differences between choices were required to elicit significant preferences.
1369835| In 1992 we collected 22 failed California Clapper Rail (Rallus longirostris obsoletus) eggs from four tidal marshes of south San Francisco Bay for organochlorine analysis and determination of eggshell thickness. Mean eggshell thickness of these eggs (262 microns) was not statistically distinguishable from that of pre-1932 museum eggs (271 microns). Total PCB concentrations in eggs ranged from 0.65 to 5.01 g g
10.2307/1368307|Low-level helicopter overflights of 35 Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) nests were conducted at two study areas in southeastern and east-central Colorado in 1984 and 1985. Red-tailed Hawks nesting where low-level air traffic was nonexistent prior to 1983 exhibited stronger avoidance behavior than did hawks nesting where helicopter activity had occurred since the late 1950s. Nine (53%) of 17 birds in the first study area flushed from the nest while only one (8%) of 12 birds in the second study area flushed. Age of nestlings at the time an overflight occurred did not influence avoidance behavior, and overflights did not appear to influence nesting success at either study area. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that Red-tailed Hawks habituate to low-level air traffic during the nesting period. However, naive birds may respond negatively to low-level helicopter activity prior to habituation and other species of raptors may respond differently than Red-tailed Hawks.
90008043|Building collisions, and particularly collisions with windows, are a major anthropogenic threat to birds, with rough estimates of between 100 million and 1 billion birds killed annually in the United States. However, no current U.S. estimates are based on systematic analysis of multiple data sources. We reviewed the published literature and acquired unpublished datasets to systematically quantify birdbuilding collision mortality and species-specific vulnerability. Based on 23 studies, we estimate that between 365 and 988 million birds (median = 599 million) are killed annually by building collisions in the U.S., with roughly 56% of mortality at low-rises, 44% at residences, and <1% at high-rises. Based on >92,000 fatality records, and after controlling for population abundance and range overlap with study sites, we identified several species that are disproportionately vulnerable to collisions at all building types. In addition, several species listed as national Birds of Conservation Concern due to their declining populations were identified to be highly vulnerable to building collisions, including Golden-winged Warbler (
10.1525/cond.2012.110050|To identify factors potentially limiting the abundance of ducks at the northern latitude of Lake Ontario, we investigated whether the lipid levels and foraging behavior of sea ducks wintering there were best explained by endogenous or exogenous mechanisms. We used an information-theoretic approach to evaluate if date (14 December15 March; endogenous mechanism), percentage ice cover of Lake Ontario (long-term exogenous mechanism), short-term ambient temperature (exogenous mechanism), or some combination of these factors best explained variation in lipid reserves and foraging effort of the Bufflehead (
40306179|Grassland-obligate birds are undergoing some of the steepest population declines of all North American passerines. Few studies have addressed these species' patterns of habitat use in their winter ranges in the southeastern United States. The dry prairie of south-central Florida constitutes one of the largest areas of contiguous grassland remaining within this region and during winter supports a diverse group of migratory grassland-obligate birds. Modern land-use of this region has altered the ecosystem's natural fire regimes and shifted the vegetative community away from graminoids and forbs toward overabundance of woody-stemmed species such as the saw palmetto (
1370121| We observed the Crested Doradito (Tyrannidae: Pseudocolopteryx sclateri) in southeastern Bolivia and southern Paraguay. We describe aspects of natural history and morphology not previously reported, which include mechanical sounds, flight display, and microstructural modifications of flight feathers. Mechanical bill-snaps precede and are embedded in the song of P. sclateri. Introductory bill-snap notes may be functionally homologous to vocal notes in the songs of other Pseudocolopteryx species. Males differ from females in their head and bill coloration, intensity of breast coloration, and their shortened and pointed primaries 6 and 7. Males also exhibit microstructural modifications of the bases of primaries 6-9 in the form of open external vanes. Further research on P. sclateri and its congeners is needed to uncover the proximate causes, function, and evolution of some of the unusual tyrannid characters described herein. /// Se observ Pseudocolopteryx sclateri en el sureste de Bolivia y en el sur del Paraguay. Se describen aspectos de historia natural y morfologa no reportados previamente, incluyendo sonidos mecnicos, despliegue en vuelo y modificaciones microstructurales de las primarias. Golpeteos introductorios del pico preceden y forman parte del canto en P. sclateri. Golpeteos introductorios del pico en P. sclateri pueden ser funcionalmente homlogas a sonidos vocales en los cantos de otras especies de Pseudocolopteryx. Los machos difieren de las hembras en la coloracin de su cabeza y pico, intensidad del color del pecho y sus primarias 6 y 7 acortadas y puntiagudas. Los machos tambin exiben modificaciones microstructurales de las bases de las primarias 6-9 en la forma de lmina externa abierta. Se requiere ms investigacin sobre el P. sclateri y sus congneres para encontrar causas, funcin y evolucin de algunas de las caractersticas aqu descriptas que son inusuales en Tyrannidae. 
10.2307/1369108| In northern Argentinean Patagonia, Buff-necked Ibis (Theristicus caudatus) nest on different substrata: cliffs, trees, and marsh vegetation. According to the ideal-free distribution hypothesis, this polymorphism may be due to the occupation of the best breeding habitats by dominant individuals and the relegation of the subdominant birds to marginal substrata with a lower probability of achieving successful breeding. We investigated whether there were any variations in the breeding performance among colonies and whether these variations were related to the breeding substratum. Laying date varied from the third week of September to the last week of October, laying occurring earlier in colonies at lower elevations. Clutch size per colony varied between 1.8 and 2.0 (x 1.9, n = 106), but significant differences were not detected among colonies. Brood size per colony varied significantly, ranging between 1.3 and 2.0 (x = 1.8, n = 164). The substratum of breeding did not influence variations in any of these three parameters. The physical condition of the chicks did not vary among substrata, but there was inter-colony variation in broods of two chicks. Daily rates of nest losses were similar among colonies reaching 6.2% (n = 856) during incubation and 1.4% (n = 966) during the nestling period. Brood reduction was low; the daily mortality rate of chicks (0.7%, n = 934) did not vary among colonies. The most common known cause of nest and chick losses was predation. These results indicate that breeding success varied only slightly from one colony to the other and that these variations are independent of the nesting substratum. In consequence, birds would not prefer one substratum over another. 
10.2307/1369104|Arctic-nesting shorebirds require several refueling stops during their long migrations between breeding grounds and Central and South American wintering areas. The protection of stopover habitats for transcontinental migrants depends on whether birds fly long distances between a few select sites or fly short distances and stop at several wetlands. Although the Great Plains historically provided a vast array of wetlands for use by migrants, wetland loss and conversion have reduced the availability of stopover sites in recent decades. In this study, we examined (1) residency periods, (2) fat dynamics, and (3) migration chronology of two shorebird species, the Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla) and White-rumped Sandpiper (C. fuscicollis) at Quivira National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), Kansas. Semipalmated Sandpipers had prolonged periods of species residency with overlapping arrivals and departures. Individual residency periods were highly variable and were unrelated to lipid reserves upon arrival. In contrast, White-rumped Sandpipers arrived and departed more synchronously. Birds that arrived in poor condition stayed longer than those with more body fat in 1991, but not in 1992. Wind direction did not influence patterns of departures of either species. We hypothesize that Semipalmated Sandpipers are ecologically eurytopic when migrating across the Great Plains in the spring. Highly variable patterns in arrival, residency, and lipid levels indicate that spring migration of this species is relaxed and opportunistic. White-rumped Sandpipers showed a pattern of reduced flexibility. Flight range estimates suggest that most birds require intermediate stopovers before reaching the breeding grounds. Interior wetlands appear to function as migration stopovers rather than staging areas for shorebirds.
10.2307/1370219|One possible link between livestock grazing and bird population declines is variation in nest predation rates. To explore this possibility we documented vegetational differences in a montane riparian community subdivided by a fence, one side of which traditionally has been summer-grazed, and the other side rested from grazing for 30 years. We found that ground vegetation was more abundant, willows (Salix spp.) less abundant, and vertical vegetational diversity was lower on the grazed relative to the rested side. Predation rates on real nests were higher on the grazed side compared to the rested side. Artificial nests were placed (1) in mixed conifer vegetation to mimic the most common nest types currently present in the riparian zone, (2) in streamside willows that differed in abundance across the fence, and (3) in old-willow remnants distant from the stream, which were equally abundant on both sides of the fence. All artificial above-ground nests, and ground nests in the old-willow experiment, suffered greater predation rates on the grazed compared to the rested side. Thus, livestock grazing may not only affect availability of nesting substrates for riparian birds by reducing streamside vegetation, but could influence bird populations by facilitating nest predation, possibly by increasing detectability of nests or through changes in predator assemblage.
10.2307/1367142| Seventy-seven Common Barn-Owls (Tyto alba) were found dead in northern Utah during the winter of 1981-1982. These birds were severely emaciated; they weighed significantly less (P < 0.001) than 21 barn-owls killed in the same period by trauma, and 162 live, healthy owls. Apparent cause of death was starvation resulting from very cold weather and extensive deep snow cover. Mean temperatures were 2.4C below normal when they died. Most detrimental, however, was a severe 2-week period during which the mean daily temperature was -9.7C. At the same time, snow cover was 20-25 cm deep, interfering with the owls' ability to capture their most important prey (Microtus spp.). A 40% decline in breeding attempts occurred in the season following the die-off. Clutch size declined from a mean of 7.0 eggs (n = 93 clutches) in four previous years to 5.8 eggs per clutch (n = 16) in 1982. Only 1.5 young fledged per nesting attempt in 1982, compared to 4.1 per attempt in the four previous years. A strong recovery in 1983 produced the largest breeding population seen during seven years on the study area. This recovery was attributed to an immigration of owls (unbanded), augmented by the nesting of banded adults who had not attempted to breed in 1982. 
10.2307/1369139|We studied the molt of adult Cory's Shearwater Calonectris diomedea borealis breeding at Vila Islet, Azores. Breeders appear to undergo a complete annual molt that overlaps considerably with the breeding season. Molt is minimal during most of the prelaying and early incubation periods (March-June). The cycle starts at middle incubation (main period July), with ventral body feather replacement at a locus on the upper breast that progresses downwards and laterally to the belly and flanks. Dorsal body molt apparently follows similar topographical and temporal patterns to those of ventral body molt. Primary renewal seems to be simple and descendent and it is estimated to take a mean of 207 days for completion, between 28 August and 22 March. Rectrix renewal apparently starts on the wintering grounds since it is advanced but not completed in March-May; then it is apparently suspended until August, when the renewal of the few remaining old rectrices is concluded in most birds by September. Such an overlap of wing molt and breeding has not been previously described in a pelagic and highly migratory seabird as the Cory's Shearwater. We suggest that the timing of molt in the species is dictated by intrinsic rhythms acquired by evolution rather than imposed by nutritional or energetic constraints.
10.2307/3247716|During a 13-year study of Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) nesting in eastern Massachusetts, 43.3% of nests were parasitized by conspecifics. Early season nests were more frequently parasitized than were late nests. First-nesting females were less frequently parasitized than experienced breeders, partially because first-nesting females nest later in the season when parasitism declines. Nest parasitism created clutch size variation that allowed us to investigate the effect of clutch size and brood size on survival of Wood Ducks. Females that hatched large broods had a minor delay in nesting the following year. Brood size had no influence on the survival rate of female Wood Ducks. Survival rates averaged 52.8% over all year and age classes. Survival rates declined by 6.1% per year of breeding experience.
10.2307/1367466|The eggs of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and several other marsh nesting species undergo periodic flooding. We conducted an experiment to test the effects of simulated tidal flooding on Herring Gull and domestic chicken (Gallus gallus) eggs. Experimental variables were salinity, temperature, length of immersion, and state of incubation when immersion occurred. In general, Herring Gull eggs had a higher hatching success after immersion and at lower temperatures than did chicken embryos. Herring Gull embryos equally survived immersion during the first and third week of development, whereas more chicken embryos survived immersion during the first week. There were no significant differences between species with respect to the duration of the immersion.
10.2307/1367883|The structure of homologous vocalizations of Greater Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus cupido) and Sharp-tailed Grouse (T. [Pedioecetes] phasianellus) was studied during four mating seasons in northwestern Minnesota. In this region males of the two species form display grounds in similar areas and occasionally occur together in mixed grounds where they hold mutually exclusive territories. Hybrids constitute approximately 3% of the combined populations. This study tested the hypothesis that the structures of homologous vocalizations varied predictably with function to assist in reproductive isolation. Aggressive calls were more similar between the species than courtship calls. The dichotomous nature of the birds' vocal systems could promote heterospecific spacing and inhibit mating. The calls of two hybrid males varied in complex ways from those of either parental species. Although prairies are poor environments for transmission of acoustical signals, both species of grouse depend heavily on vocalizations in their communication. Sound transmission is enhanced in these species by low frequencies, use of "sound windows," and crepuscular displaying.
10.2307/1369071|We compared the field metabolic rate (FMR) and behavior around sugar-water feeders of sympatric territorial and non-territorial hummingbirds in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona during July 1987 and 1989. The territorial species was the Blue-throated Hummingbird (Lampornis clemenciae; mean mass 8.77 g) and the non-territorial species the Black-chinned Hummingbird (Archilochus alexandri; mean mass 3.67 g). FMR (CO
10.2307/1368609|In the Northern Oriole (Icterus galbula bullockii), many females visited more than one male before forming a pair bond, but pair formation occurred rapidly, with few displays and little aggression. Most pairs were newly formed each year. Only males advertised for mates, and only males displayed at and chased members of the opposite sex that were not their mates. Females apparently did not discriminate against males whose black coloration had been bleached away. Those bleached males that remained on territory successfully paired and raised young. These results suggest that females do not use the black portion of the male coloration to assess male quality or as an arbitrary badge for female choice. If conspicuous male coloration is important to female mate choice in the Northern Oriole, then mate advertising or invitation-to-promiscuous-copulation may be the function of the coloration.
10.1525/cond.2010.090210|The White-throated Barbtail,
10.2307/1370405|Breeding birds can generally be thought of as having evolved life-history traits that tend to maximize lifetime reproductive success. Within this broad pattern, many variations are possible because all traits are co-evolved with numerous others in complex ways. Clutch-size, for example, has long been understood to be frequently lower than the number of young parents are capable of supporting by working at their top capacity, especially in long-lived species. Nevertheless, studies of species with fatal competition among nestmates have shown that parents routinely create one offspring more than they normally will raise, as if counting on brood-reduction to trim family size after hatching. Three general and mutually compatible parental incentives for initial over-production have been identified, with David Lack's resource-tracking hypothesis having received the most attention. Extra sibs can also assist each other in some circumstances, but a third explanation for over-production that has been around for nearly four decades, the insurance hypothesis, has been surprisingly overlooked and, in some cases, actively challenged. It simply posits that parents create extra offspring as back-ups for members of the core brood that chance to die very early. We propose that the skepticism over the role of insurance is misdirected, that having a back-up is virtually automatic as a contributing incentive to parents and, in some taxa, that it provides a necessary and totally sufficient explanation for over-production. Some empirical approaches to the study of the insurance hypothesis are reviewed, in hopes of encouraging further field study of over-production in general, because that process underlies much of the internal conflict observed in avian families.
1370743| We studied the effects of nutrient enrichment on the bird community in an oligotrophic wetland, the Florida Everglades. Among the non-wading birds surveyed in 1996 and 1997, Boat-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus major) and Common Moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) were consistently more abundant in enriched sites, whereas Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) were consistently more abundant in unenriched sites. The abundance of Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) was not significantly different between enriched and unenriched sites. Among wading birds, Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) and Great Egrets (Ardea alba) were significantly more abundant in enriched than unenriched areas in a dry year, 1991. Great Egrets and all wading species combined were significantly more abundant in enriched than unenriched areas in the wet year, 1995. Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) and White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) did not differ in abundance between enriched and unenriched areas in the dry or wet year. A significant interaction between water depth and nutrient status in the wet year indicated that wading bird abundance increased with water depth only in nutrient-enriched areas presumably because the enriched areas had greater food availability than unenriched areas at the same water depth. Bird abundance appeared to increase in nutrient-enriched areas; however, this increase was accompanied by a shift in species composition typically found in the unenriched Everglades and was a fundamental change in the Everglades' distinctive structure. /// Estudiamos los efectos del enriquecimiento con nutrientes sobre la comunidad de aves en un humedal oligotrfico, los pantanos de los Everglades en Florida. Entre las aves no vadeadoras censadas en 1996 y 1997, Quiscalus major y Gallinula chloropus fueron consistentemente ms abundantes en sitios enriquecidos, mientras que Geothlypis trichas fue consistentemente ms abundante en sitios no enriquecidos. La abundancia de Agelaius phoeniceus no difiri significativamente entre los sitios enriquecidos y no enriquecidos. Entre las aves vadeadoras, Mycteria americana y Ardea alba fueron significativamente ms abundantes en reas enriquecidas que en las no enriquecidas durante 1991, un ao seco. En 1995, un ao hmedo, Ardea alba y todas las dems aves vadeadoras fueron significativamente ms abundantes en reas enriquecidas que en las no enriquecidas. Ardea herodias y Eudocimus albus no difirieron en abundancia entre reas enriquecidas y no enriquecidas en el ao hmedo ni en el ao seco. En el ao hmedo, encontramos una interaccin significativa entre la profundidad del agua y el estado de los nutrientes, lo que indic que la abundancia de aves vadeadoras aument slo en las reas enriquecidas con nutrientes, presumiblemente debido a que las reas enriquecidas presentaron mayor disponibilidad de alimento que las reas no enriquecidas de una profundidad de agua equivalente. La abundancia de aves pareci aumentar en las reas enriquecidas con nutrientes; sin embargo, este incremento estuvo acompaado con un cambio en la composicin de las especies encontradas normalmente en los pantanos de los Everglades de Florida que no han sido enriquecidos, y represent un cambio fundamental en la estructura caracterstica de los Everglades. 
10.2307/1369894|The Puna Buzzard (= Variable Buzzard or Gurney's Buzzard, Buteo poecilochrous) and the Red-backed Buzzard (B. polyosoma) are two morphologically similar and closely related South American raptors that have been and are currently separated as species mainly on the basis of wing length and "Stresemann's wing formula." I reexamined wing formula, wing length, geographic variables, and plumage in adults and immatures, and adult vocalizations. For both adults and immatures, wing formula and wing length are not reliable taxonomic characters because of their continuous clinal relationship. In both age classes, wing tip contour changes allometrically with changes in wing length, which is itself a function of body size and mass. Thus, neither of the currently accepted morphometric characters examined here serve to separate taxon polyosoma from taxon poecilochrous. There are at least 27 distinct adult plumage morphs (formerly five) in this species group, perhaps more than any other in Falconiformes, with no relationship to morphometric variables and only minor geographic variation. Immature plumages are similarly ineffective in diagnosing taxa. Vocalizations are similar among adults from widely varying latitudes and altitudes. I therefore propose dropping poecilochrous (Gurney 1879) in favor of polyosoma (Quoy and Gaimard 1824) for all forms in this group, as the latter has priority. The English common name applied to this group should be Variable Buzzard, with the exception of the isolated population in the Juan Fernandez Archipelago which should for now remain the Juan Fernandez Buzzard (B. p. exsul), although it may well be elevated to species rank with further data.
10.2307/1367480|The proportions of nitrogen (N), as urate-N (76.1%), NH
10.2307/1368770|The foraging behavior of Worm-eating Warblers (Helmitheros vermivorus) was studied in Maryland during the breeding season and in Jamaica, Dominican Republic, and Belize during the nonbreeding season. Over 75% of the foraging maneuvers recorded from May to early August in Maryland were directed towards live foliage, whereas over 75% of the maneuvers were directed towards dead curled leaves in the understory of tropical forest in the temperate zone winter. Sampling of the relative abundance of arthropods associated with dead and live foliage showed that although the ratio of total numbers in dead and live leaves was similar in the temperate and tropical sites, the overall ratio of estimated biomass was considerably greater in the tropical sites. This is because large arthropods commonly use dead curled leaves as daytime roosts in tropical forests. However, the largest temperatezone arthropods are generally found on leaf surfaces during the day. The winter-foraging specialization on dead leaf arthropods apparently is the more demanding; the most specialized search and attack behaviors are associated with feeding at dead and live curled leaves. I revisited the Belize study sites in September, when Worm-eating Warblers were presumably arriving and found an intermediate use of dead and live leaves. Relative abundances of arthropods on dead and live leaves were similar to those found in the winter period at the same sites. This suggests a period of transition which is consistent with the trial and error learning hypothesis for the development of seasonal foraging specializations in this species.
10.1525/cond.2013.120070|Founder effects, new environments, and competition often produce changes in species colonizing islands, although the resulting endemism sometimes requires molecular identification. One method to identify fruitful areas for more detailed genetic study is through comparative morphological analyses. We measured 210 museum specimens to evaluate the potential morphological consequences of colonization across the Philippine archipelago by the Philippine Falconet (
10.2307/1368080|The question of the possible function of filoplumes longer than adjacent contour feathers has not previously been addressed for oscines. We studied filoplume location and structure for 117 North American oscine species. Protruding filoplumes (PF) extending beyond the contour feathers occurred regularly in most species but only on the nape and, less frequently, the crown. Species with many PF had relatively flexible and less dense contour feathering on the nape. We hypothesize that PF and other long, nearby, filoplumes are specialized in their relative length to detect disturbance in a part of the feather coat which is not visible to the bird, not accessible for preening with the bill, and which might be especially vulnerable to wind disruption.
10.2307/1369437|The diet of Vaux's Swifts (Chaetura vauxi) during the breeding season consisted primarily of insects in the orders Homoptera (hoppers, aphids, whiteflies), Diptera (flies), Ephemeroptera (mayflies), and Hymenoptera (ants, parasitic wasps). Diet was determined from 223 food boluses collected from adults feeding nestlings and represented 24,133 individual insects and spiders. Diet did not differ among five study areas or by time of day. A pair of swifts feeds an average of 5,344 arthropods to their nestlings each day, and an average of 154,976 arthropods during the nestling growth period. Radio-tagged swifts foraged up to 5.4 km from the nest. Of actual sightings of radio-tagged birds, 64% were foraging over land, 27% were foraging over water, and 9% were traveling in a straight line.
4151063| Feathers tend to be darkly colored in habitats where relative humidity is high and pale where it is low. We suggest that this correlation, known as Gloger's rule, results, in part, from selection for dark feathers that are more resistant than light feathers to bacterial degradation, which is a severe problem in humid habitats where bacteria thrive and a lesser problem in arid habitats. In May and June 2000-2002 we sampled feather-degrading bacteria (Bacillus licheniformis) from the plumage of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) in southeastern Arizona and northwestern Washington. Under standardized laboratory conditions, feather-degrading bacteria from the plumage of sparrows in the humid Northwest degraded feathers more rapidly and more completely than feather-degrading bacteria from sparrows of the arid Southwest. The differences in feather-degrading bacteria and in relative humidity produce a difference in the intensity of selection, which in turn produces the difference in color described in Gloger's rule. /// Las plumas tienden a ser de tonos obscuros en hbitats donde la humedad relativa es alta y ms plidas en habitats donde la humedad relativa es baja. Esta correlacin, conocida como la regla de Gbger, se aplica a muchas especies de ayes a travs del mundo. Sugerimos que la regla de Gloger es, en parte, un producto evolutivo de la seleccin por plumas obscuras, que son ms resistentes a la degradacin bacteriana que las plumas claras. La degradacin bacteriana es un problema severn en habitats hmedos donde prosperan las bacterias y un problema menor en habitats dridos. En mayo y junio de 2000 a 2002 tomamos muestras de bacterias degradantes de plumas (Bacillus licheniformis) del Melospiza melodia fallax, que tiene plumaje plido y reside en la parte sureste del estado de Arizona, y comparamos la incidencia y actividad de estas bacterias con las de aquellas encon tradas en el plumaje obscuro de M. m. morphna, que reside de los bosques hmedos del noroeste del estado de Washington. Sin embargo, bajo condiciones estandarizadas de laboratorio, las bacterias obtenidas de M. m. morphna, degradaron las plumas ms rpida y completamente que las bacterias de M. m. fallax. Las diferencias sugieren que las plumas obscuras de M. m. morphna del noroeste hdmedo estdn sujetas a seleccin ms intensa para resistir la degradacin bacteriana que las plumas claras del gorrin del suroeste rido. La diferencia en humedad rebativa produce una diferencia en la intensidad de seleccin, que a su vez produce la diferencia en color descrita en la regla de Gloger. 
10.2307/1369349| I studied renesting behavior of American Coots (Fulica americana) in south-western Manitoba during 1987-1991. Coots were persistent renesters, replacing 68% of 281 destroyed clutches. Renesting rates varied annually and seasonally, but were unaffected by previous investments in egg formation or incubation. Renest intervals averaged 2.1  1.8 days (1 SD; n = 127) following clutch loss during laying and 6.4  1.1 days (n = 28) following clutch loss during incubation. Renest intervals did not vary, or varied only slightly (r<sup>2</sup> 0.11), with respect to year, date, supplemental feeding, number of previous nesting attempts, previous clutch size, previous egg size, and stage of incubation. Clutch size of renests was usually one to two eggs smaller than clutch size of initial nests, but this was entirely an artifact of later nest initiation dates for renests. Clutch and egg sizes of renesting coots were unaffected by levels of previous investment in egg formation or incubation. After controlling for seasonal effects, approximately 30% of the variation in renest clutch size and 65% of the variation in renest egg size were attributable to individual females (i.e., within-season repeatability). These observations suggest that renesting coots are constrained by time or habitat quality, but not by the amount of food or nutrient reserves available for egg production. 
10.2307/1370081|To understand animals' tactics for surviving the winter season, we need to know how they manage their energy reserves. Fat reserves in small birds in winter generally increase with starvation risk. Studies have documented higher fat reserves in response to various sources of variability in energy intake or expenditure. Using three woodland species, Carolina Chickadee (Poecile carolinensis), Tufted Titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor), and White-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta carolinensis), we tested the prediction that the more predictable food supply of socially dominant animals enables them to maintain lower energetic reserves than subordinate conspecifics. We inferred dominance from age and sex categories. The hypothesis was fully supported. In all three species, dominants carried relatively lower fat reserves than subordinates.
10.2307/1367315|The weight loss of incubating Black-browed Albatrosses (Diomedea melanophris) and Grey-headed Albatrosses (D. chrysostoma) was measured at Bird Island, South Georgia. The rate of weight loss did not differ significantly either between the sexes or between the species. The results suggest that these two species have the same metabolic requirements. The difference in the quality of their diet leads to estimates of daily food intake considerably higher for the Grey-headed than for the Black-browed albatross. This may have been a factor in the evolution of biennial breeding in the Grey-headed Albatross.
1370119| One classic means of assessing variation in avian foraging success and provisioning effort, counting the number of trips to the nest, assumes that parents bring equal amounts of food during each trip. We tested this assumption in male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) by using video cameras to record both the number of nest visits and the mass of food delivered as measured by an electronic balance. We compared the number of feeding visits and mass of food delivered at each of three stages in the nest cycle: incubation, young nestlings, and older nestlings. The number of provisioning trips was significantly correlated with the mass of food provided by a male to his mate or to their offspring during each stage of the nesting cycle. Furthermore, this correlation became stronger as the breeding cycle progressed. These observations support the assumption that, for this species and perhaps others that carry food in their crop, the number of provisioning visits to the nest is a reasonable predictor of the mass of food provided. /// Un mtodo clsico para establecer la variacin en el xito de forrajeo y esfuerzo de aprovisionamiento en aves, que consiste en contar el nmero de viajes hacia el nido, asume que los padres llevan igual cantidad de alimento durante cada viaje. Probamos este supuesto en machos de Carpodacus mexicanus mediante cmaras de video que registraron tanto el nmero de visitas al nido como el peso del alimento entregado, este ltimo medido mediante una balanza electrnica. Comparamos el nmero de visitas al nido y el peso del alimento entregado en cada uno de los tres estados del ciclo de nidificacin: incubacin, pichones jvenes y pichones tardos. El nmero de viajes de aprovisionamiento se correlacion positivamente con el peso del alimento provisto por un macho a su pareja o a su progenie en cada estado del ciclo de nidificacin. Adems, esta correlacin se hizo ms fuerte a medida que el ciclo de nidificacin progres. Estas observaciones apoyan el supuesto que, al menos para esta especie y otras que transportan alimento en el buche, el nmero de visitas de aprovisionamiento al nido predice razonablemente bien la masa de alimento provista. 
10.2307/1368492|Vegetational and topographical factors of 22 nest sites of the Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) were compared to random forest plots. Goshawks selected sites with greater basal area, fewer saplings, and significantly greater numbers of trees 20 to 40 cm in diameter. The relative dominance and relative density of oak (Quercus spp.) was significantly less at nest sites whereas that of eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) was significantly greater. Goshawks did not use southern slopes for nesting and nests were often found at higher elevations than random sites. Nest sites were significantly further from human habitation, but were significantly closer to swamps and woods roads (or discernable trails) than random sites. Despite the significant preference for conifers in the nest sites, deciduous hardwoods were more often used as nest trees (82%) with American beech (Fagus grandifolia) and black birch (Betula lenta) being used more than expected.
10.2307/1368674| Previous studies have shown that the Flight Calls of Swinhoe's Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma monorhis) differ clearly between the sexes in their frequency component and that birds can discriminate the calls of either sex with few errors (Taoka et al. 1989b). But the cue for sex recognition has not yet been identified. In this study, we quantitatively analyzed the calls of both sexes for call length, number of syllables, and duration and interval of syllables. We found some sexual differences in rhythmic components, but mean  standard deviation overlapped in all syllables. In order to make synthetic calls for playback experiments, frequency and rhythmic components were systematically manipulated. Birds recognized the synthetic calls having the same harmonic structure as female calls but those without harmonic structure were recognized as male calls regardless of whether the rhythm was that of the female or the male. Therefore, we concluded that harmonic structure is the cue for sex recognition. The mechanism of vocal sex recognition was compared with that of the closely related species, the Leach's Storm-Petrel (O. leucorhoa). 
10.1525/cond.2012.100200|Eighteen species of Amazonian birds have been considered river-island obligates in northeastern Peru, but some of these species have been detected recently at mainland sites along the Amazon River. We document the presence of supposed river-island obligate birds at riparian sites on the mainland and characterize these birds' habitat use on the islands and the mainland on the basis of point counts at five island sites, five riparian mainland sites, and five upland mainland sites. We regularly encountered seven species of supposed river-island obligates on the islands and four of them, including the Ash-breasted Antbird (
10.2307/1368735|From 1983 to 1986 I visited 26 Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) nests in east-central and southeastern Colorado. I estimated the closest distance that each defending adult approached, and recorded the number of calls that each bird gave and the number of times it dived while I was at the base of the nest tree for a 10-min period and subsequently at the nest for a 5-min period. The age and number of young in the nest, the height of the nest above the ground, and whether one or both adults were present were used as potential predictors of the intensity of nest-defense behavior. Nestling age was a significant predictor of call rate of the closest adult and nest height was a significant predictor of call rate of the farthest adult while I was at the base of the nest tree. Dive rate and closest approach were not significantly related to any measured variable. No independent variable was significantly related to nest-defense intensity while I was at the nest, however, dive rate increased and closest approach decreased when I was at the nest compared to when I was on the ground. These observations are only in part consistent with current theoretical models that predict patterns of nest-defense intensity in altricial birds.
10.2307/1370485|We conducted at-sea line transect surveys for Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) to determine density off the coast of central California and to explore the utility of various survey protocols. Surveys were designed to compare line versus strip transect methods, and reveal the effects of distance from shore, viewing conditions and seasonal trends on density estimates. On consecutive days, we conducted 12 paired (24 total) at-sea line and strip transect surveys that were 20 km long at 400 m and 800 m from shore. We also performed nine surveys that were 10 km long and at distances of 400 m, 900 m, 1,400 m, 2,400 m, 3,400 m and 4,400 m from shore. Density estimates calculated using line transects were significantly greater than estimates based on strip transects of 100 m and 200 m widths. Marbled Murrelet density ranged from 2.4-39.4 birds km
10.2307/1370156| The mean maximum dive depth attained for 22 adult Peruvian Diving-petrels (Pelecanoides garnotii) was 31.6  3.6 m. The deepest dive was 83.1 m. This maximum dive depth was 81% deeper than that predicted by its body size (46 m) and the deepest reported for a seabird weighing less than 210 g. 
10.2307/1369251|Skeletal specimens of Aechmophorus--210 occidentalis (dark "phase") and 77 clarkii (light "phase")--were analyzed morphometrically using univariate and multivariate techniques to assess interspecific and intersexual skeletal variation; variation due to age and locale also was tested. A. occidentalis generally exceeded A. clarkii in skeletal dimensions; mean differences were less than 1 mm for widths of elements and approximated 5 mm for lengths of major wing elements. Also, 5-vertebral notaria were more frequent in the larger A. occidentalis than in A. clarkii. Univariate sexual dimorphism was highly significant in all skeletal measurements, dimensions of males exceeding those of females. Stepwise canonical analyses of the four species-sex groups of Aechomorphorus documented significant interspecific and intersexual differences in skeletons; interspecific differences in proportions within the pelvic limb and bill suggest differential refinement for locomotion and foraging. Multivariate sexual differences were more than twice as great as multivariate differences between species, and sexual dimorphism was significantly greater in A. clarkii than in A. occidentalis. Classification functions for skeletons of Aechmophorus of known sex permitted species identification for 85% of specimens. Identification of single elements to species does not appear to be feasible using mensural criteria. Lesser but significant multivariate variation in skeletons was attributable to age and locale of collection. Magnitude of interspecific differentiation in skeletal dimensions in Aechmophorus is small compared to that among species in other genera studied previously.
10.1525/cond.2011.100051|We investigated how variation in the timing and amount of annual precipitation influenced annual variation in the fecundity of the Spotted Antbird (
10.1525/cond.2012.110209|The Upper Mississippi River is thought to provide important stopover habitat for migrating landbirds because of its northsouth orientation and floodplain forests. The river flows through the Driftless Area of southwestern Wisconsin and southeastern Minnesota where forests are plentiful, yet forests of the floodplain and Driftless Area uplands differ greatly in landscape setting, tree species composition, and topography. We compared landbird assemblages in these upland and floodplain forests over three springs, 20052007, using line-transect surveys at randomly selected areas in and within 16 km of the floodplain. We found more species of both transient and locally breeding migrants per survey in floodplain than in upland forest. Detections of transient neotropical migrants did not differ statistically by habitat. Detections of locally breeding neotropical and temperate-zone migrants and transient temperate-zone migrants were greater in floodplain than in upland forest. Between floodplain and upland forest, assemblages of locally breeding species, including neotropical and temperate-zone migrants (of which some individuals were in transit), differed substantially, but assemblages of transients (including both neotropical and temperate-zone migrants) did not differ as much. Only two species of transient migrants had clear affinities for floodplain forest, and none had an affinity for upland forest, whereas most locally breeding migrants had an affinity for either upland or floodplain forest. Within each spring, however, detections of transient neotropical migrants shifted from being greater in floodplain to greater in upland forests. This intraseasonal shift may be related to the phenology of certain tree species.
1370614| We used surveillance radar to track flocks of colonially breeding alcids at Latrabjarg, northwest Iceland, that were returning from their feeding grounds. We compared the flight directions of incoming flocks during the chick-rearing period with alcid densities at sea during both the incubation and chick-rearing periods. The direction of incoming flocks was significantly related to alcid distribution at sea during the chick-rearing period. At-sea alcid counts suggested a temporal change in alcid use of foraging areas within a breeding season. Surveillance radar appears practical for monitoring preferred foraging areas of alcids within seasons and between years. Further, radar can provide an overall picture of alcid distribution near colonies, complementary to studies on foraging flights of individual birds. /// En Latrabjarg, noroeste de Islandia, utilizamos radares de vigilancia para monitorear bandadas de lcidos que se reproducen en colonias y estaban retornando desde los sitios de forrajeo. Comparamos las direcciones de vuelo de llegada de bandadas durante el perodo de cra de polluelos con la densidad de lcidos en el mar durante los perodos de incubacin y de cra de polluelos. La direccin de llegada de las bandadas se relacion significativamente con la distribucin de lcidos en el mar durante el perodo de cra de polluelos. Los conteos de lcidos en el mar sugirieron un cambio temporal en el uso de las reas de forrajeo durante el perodo reproductivo. Los radares de vigilancia parecen funcionales para el monitoreo de las reas de forrajeo preferidas por los lcidos tanto dentro de un mismo perodo reproductivo como entre aos. Adems, los radares pueden proveer una visin general de la distribucin de lcidos en las cercanas de las colonias reproductivas complementando estudios sobre los vuelos de forrajeo de aves a nivel individual. 
1370036| In long-lived raptors, research suggests that some nest areas consistently fledge more young than others, with the majority of young in the population being produced by a few females. If this claim were true for Northern Goshawk (Accipiter gentilis) populations, it would benefit land managers to identify high-quality goshawk breeding habitat. We examined whether the number of young fledged varied spatially among Northern Goshawk nest areas within three study areas where long-term reproductive data from goshawks were available: (1) Vancouver Island, British Columbia; (2) Jemez Mountains, New Mexico; and (3) Uinta Mountains, Utah. A mixed-model ANOVA indicated there was minimal spatial variation in nest productivity among nest areas within the three study locations. Rather, nest areas exhibited high temporal variability in nest productivity within each study area. These results suggest that temporal patterns such as local weather and fluctuating prey populations influenced Northern Goshawk reproduction more than spatial patterns such as habitat characteristics. Nest productivity may inadequately reflect spatial patterns in goshawk reproduction and so it would be premature to assume that habitat quality for Northern Goshawks was equal among nest areas within these study areas. Future research should examine spatial variability among nest areas in adult and juvenile survival rates to gain a complete picture of population responses to habitat change. /// Investigaciones en aves rapaces longevas sugieren que consistentemente ms polluelos empluman en algunos sitios de anidacin que en otros y que la mayora de los juveniles en la poblacin son producidos por unas pocas hembras. Si esto fuera cierto para poblaciones de Accipiter gentilis, ayudara a las autoridades ambientales a identificar hbitat reproductivo de alta calidad para la especie. Evaluamos si el nmero de polluelos emplumados vari espacialmente entre sitios de anidacin de A. gentilis dentro de tres reas de estudio para las cuales haba datos reproductivos de largo plazo disponibles: (1) Vancouver Island, British Columbia; (2) Jemez Mountains, New Mexico; y (3) Uinta Mountains, Utah. Un modelo mixto de anlisis de varianza indic que la variacin espacial en la productividad de los nidos entre sitios de anidacin dentro de las tres reas de estudio fue mnima. En cambio, los sitios de anidacin presentaron una alta variabilidad temporal en la productividad de los nidos dentro de cada rea de estudio. Estos resultados sugieren que los patrones temporales como el clima y las fluctuaciones de las poblaciones de presas influencian la reproduccin de A. gentilis ms que los patrones espaciales como las caractersticas del hbitat. La productividad de los nidos puede reflejar inadecuadamente los patrones espaciales de la reproduccin de A. gentilis, de modo que sera prematuro suponer que la calidad de hbitat fue igual entre los sitios de anidacin dentro de las reas de estudio. Para tener una perspectiva completa de la respuesta de las poblaciones a cambios en el ambiente, investigaciones futuras deberan examinar la variabilidad espacial entre sitios de anidacin en las tasas de supervivencia de aves adultas y juveniles. 
10.2307/1369257|We compared habitat characteristics of nest sites (female-selected sites) and song perch sites (male-selected sites) with those of sites unused by Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii) at three different scales of vegetation measurement: (1) microplot (central willow [Salix spp.] bush and four adjacent bushes); (2) mesoplot (0.07 ha); and, (3) macroplot (flycatcher territory size). Willow Flycatchers exhibited vegetation preferences at all three scales. Nest sites were distinguished by high willow density and low variability in willow patch size and bush height. Song perch sites were characterized by large central shrubs, low central shrub vigor, and high variability in shrub size. Unused sites were characterized by greater distances between willows and willow patches, less willow coverage, and a smaller riparian zone width than either nest or song perch sites. At all scales, nest sites were situated farther from unused sites in multivariate habitat space than were song perch sites, suggesting (1) a correspondence among scales in their ability to describe Willow Flycatcher habitat, and (2) females are more discriminating in habitat selection than males. Microhabitat differences between male-selected (song perch) and female-selected (nest) sites were evident at the two smaller scales; at the finest scale, the segregation in habitat space between male-selected and female-selected sites was greater than that between male-selected and unused sites. Differences between song perch and nest sites were not apparent at the scale of flycatcher territory size, possibly due to inclusion of (1) both nest and song perch sites, (2) defended, but unused habitat, and/or (3) habitat outside of the territory, in larger scale analyses. The differences between nest and song perch sites at the finer scales reflect their different functions (e.g., nest concealment and microclimatic requirements vs. advertising and territorial defense, respectively), and suggest that the exclusive use of either nest or song perch sites in vegetation analyses can result in misleading, or at least incomplete, descriptions of a species' habitat. Habitat interpretations for Willow Flycatchers (and perhaps for many passerines) are a function of the gender-specific behavior of the birds observed and the scale of vegetation measurement.
3247795| Using museum specimens, I document the prebasic flight-feather molt and molting grounds of Baird's Sparrow (Ammodramus bairdii). Prebasic molt can apparently be carried out to some extent during fall migration. When initiating or completing molt, most Baird's Sparrows appear to be concentrated at the northern edge of their wintering range, and well within the late-summer monsoon zone. This staging may be to make use of the monsoon zone, broadly defined, but also to avoid the heavier monsoon rains found farther south in the wintering range. During prebasic molt, adult female Baird's Sparrows replace their primaries in 27 days, whereas adult males take 46 days; the mean replacement time is 39 days when sexes are combined. This is the fastest rate yet reported for a western U.S. breeding passerine, and I hypothesize that it might be due to being released from energetic constraints imposed by additional extensive migration. /// Utilizando especimenes de museo, document la muda prebsica de las plumas de vuelo y sitios de muda de Ammodramus bairdii. Aparentemente, la muda prebsica puede ser llevada a cabo, en cierta mediada, durante la migracin de otoo. Al iniciar o completar la muda, la mayora de los individuos de A. bairdii parecen concentrarse en el borde norte de su rango de distribucin in vernal y en el interior de la zona del monzn tardo de verano. Este comportamiento puede ser para utilizar la zona del monzn, definida de modo general, pero tambin para evitar las lluvias monznicas ms fuertes que se observan ms al sur en el rango de invernada. Durante la muda prebsica, las hembras adultas de esta especie reemplazan sus primarias en 27 das, mientras que los machos adultos toman 46 das. El tiempo de reemplazo promedio es de 39 das cuando se combinan los sexos. Esta es la tasa ms rpida reportada para un ave paserina que se reproduce en el oeste de EUA, y sugiero que esto se puede deber a que esta especie se ve liberada de restricciones energticas impuestas por grandes migraciones adicionales. 
10.2307/1369536|We studied the effects of species, nesting chronology and egg size on composition of eggs and goslings of Ross' (Chen rossii) and Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens). Compared to early nesters, late-nesting Ross' Geese laid eggs with less yolk protein, which in turn produced goslings with smaller pectoralis muscles. Larger pectoralis muscles of young that hatch early may enhance thermogenesis when conditions are colder. Egg composition varied isometrically with egg size. Conspecifics from larger eggs were structurally smaller for their egg size yet contained the same relative nutrient content as goslings from smaller eggs; thus goslings from larger eggs had relatively more lipid reserve. Larger egg size may give an initial energetic advantage to goslings during periods of nutritional or thermal stress. Although no interspecific variation in egg composition was observed, Ross' Geese hatched with more protein (scaled to egg size) and larger gizzards (scaled to body size). In addition, Ross' Geese had less water per gram of dry skeletal tissue mass than did Snow Geese which indicates greater functional maturity of Ross' Goose neonate tissue. Digestive efficiency, thermoregulatory ability and locomotor capacity may be relatively better in Ross' Geese than in Snow Geese and these characteristics may represent adaptations to metabolic constraints associated with smaller neonate body size and forage requirements.
10.2307/1369478|Sudden prey reductions were simulated to examine their impact on growth parameters of nestling American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) hand-reared in captivity. The experimental design consisted of three treatments: (1) 15 nestlings fed ad libitum (control individuals), (2) 15 nestlings that were starved for 24 hr when 7 days old, and for 36 hr when 21 days old, and (3) 15 nestlings that were starved for 36 hr when 14 days old and for 48 hr when 28 days old. Fitting biometrical data to the logistic model (body mass and the length of antebrachium, tarsus and beak) or linear models (length of the ninth primary and the central rectrix), no significant differences were found for the growth parameters of each trait between control and starved birds. This revealed no long-term effects caused by temporary starvation. Although starved individuals suffered a significant weight loss following the periods of food deprivation, they recovered mass in 2-4 days by increasing food ingestion when the ad libitum diet was restored. This flexibility of the growth of mass can be seen as an adaptive mechanism to permit compensation in day to day fluctuations of the food supply. Although American Kestrels show reversed sexual size dimorphism prior to fledging, males and females responded similarly to starvation.
1369697|We used small video cameras to film predators at nests of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla). We filmed three predation events, all by accipitrine hawks, in which no signs of predation were left at nests. Hence, as suggested by other workers, predator identification based on signs left at nests is unreliable. In addition, predation rates may be underestimated if accipiters or other predators take nestlings just prior to fledging without leaving signs. These incidents may be interpreted by field workers as nests where young fledged successfully.
10.2307/1369761|Although predation and starvation are considered the prime causes of post-fledging mortality, uncertainty exists about the importance and timing of these two factors. Reproductive success in Florida Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens) is positively correlated with amount of oak scrub in a territory. Using ptilochronology, we assessed whether scrub-jay fledglings in different territories differed in nutritional condition, because differential nutritional condition could be responsible directly (starvation) or indirectly (depredation) for territory-specific mortality. We measured three indices of feather growth in young jays: feather total length was significantly positively related to proportion of a territory covered by open oak scrub, whereas the relationship between amount of oak scrub and feather mass or daily feather growth rate approached significance. These results suggest that nutritional condition plays a role in survival of young Florida Scrub-Jays and that relatively subtle differences in territory composition may contribute to variation in overall reproductive success.
10.2307/1368885| Pure tones of 1, 2, 4, 8, and 10 kHz were broadcast from the body of a dead starling Sturnus vulgaris, and sound pressure levels were measured through 360 in three planes. At high frequencies (8 and 10 kHz) there were large troughs in sound pressure levels in the acoustic "shadow" of the bird's body. A physical model based on sound interference phenomena predicts similar patterns of sound pressure levels. 
10.2307/1368535| To determine the contribution of cutaneous water loss to evaporative cooling in Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura), we used a ventilated capsule technique to measure evaporation from the breast, back, and axilla of captive doves at 25 and 35C. Water loss from these surfaces averaged 4.1  0.4 mg m
10.2307/1369780|Dispersal data are inevitably biased toward short-distance events, often highly so. We illustrate this problem using our long-term study of Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) in central coastal California. Estimating the proportion of birds disappearing from the study area and correcting for detectability within the maximum observable distance are the first steps toward achieving a realistic estimate of dispersal distributions. Unfortunately, there is generally no objective way to determine the fates of birds not accounted for by these procedures, much less estimating the distances they may have moved. Estimated mean and root-mean-square dispersal distances range from 0.22-2.90 km for males and 0.53-9.57 km for females depending on what assumptions and corrections are made. Three field methods used to help correct for bias beyond the limits of normal study areas include surveying alternative study sites, expanding the study site (super study sites), and radio-tracking dispersers within a population. All of these methods have their limitations or can only be used in special cases. New technologies may help alleviate this problem in the near future. Until then, we urge caution in interpreting observed dispersal data from all but the most isolated of avian populations.
10.2307/1369986|We report how clutch size, annual reproductive success, and annual survival of breeders and offspring vary with laying date in Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) in southwestern Nebraska, from 1982-1993. Clutch size declined significantly across the season for both parasite-free (fumigated) and naturally infested nests. Larger clutches of 4 and 5 eggs were initiated significantly earlier in warm and dry seasons; laying dates for smaller clutches showed no relationship with weather. Incubation period declined significantly with laying date and was shorter in the absence of ectoparasites. Fledging success declined significantly with laying date in nonfumigated nests, primarily through greater loss of nestlings to parasitic swallow bugs (Oeciacus vicarius). First-year survival probabilities of offspring varied significantly with date among nonfumigated nests but not among fumigated nests; earlier-hatched young survived best in some years, and in other years intermediate- or late-hatched young had highest survival. Number of young locally recruited was highest for early nesters in 5 of 7 years with intermediate nesters doing best in the remaining years. Annual survival of female breeders increased with laying date, suggesting a benefit to late nesting and a potential life history trade-off between reproduction and adult survival. Nestling body mass did not vary with laying date, suggesting no decline in food availability over the summer. Female body mass prior to and during laying declined significantly with laying date but during brood rearing increased significantly with laying date. Female body mass had no significant effect on clutch size independent of laying date. The primary environmental factor causing the seasonal decline in reproductive success is ectoparasitism. A seasonal decline in clutch size may be a strategic adjustment to reduce ectoparasitism by lowering the parasite carrying capacity per nest. Greater apparent survival of late-nesting females may prevent directional selection for earlier breeding times in Cliff Swallows.
10.2307/1370184|Wing morphology of nine species of seabirds from Johnston Atoll in the central tropical Pacific was analyzed to determine how wing size and shape correlated with observed foraging behavior and, in some species, the energetic cost of flight. Red-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon rubricauda) and Christmas Shearwaters (Puffinus nativitatis) had lower wing areas, shorter wing spans, and higher relative wing loading than would be predicted from mass alone. Brown Noddies (Anous stolidus) and Red-footed Boobies (Sula sula) had lower wing loading, Brown Boobies (Sula leucogaster) and Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) had higher aspect ratios, and Brown Noddies had lower aspect ratio than would be predicted from mass alone. Aspect ratio showed greater intraspecific variation than the other variables. In most cases, predicted differences in wing morphology correlated well with observed foraging differences among species, and species that did not differ significantly in body mass differed with respect to wing size and shape; these morphological differences reflected varying flight and foraging behaviors. Sooty Terns had a higher aspect ratio and higher wing loading than Brown Noddies reflecting their more pelagic lifestyle, and Christmas Shearwaters had a lower aspect ratio and higher wing loading than Wedge-tailed Shearwaters (Puffinus pacificus) reflecting their pursuit plunging behavior.
1370569| All birds have fundamentally similar patterns of plumage succession. Thus Humphrey and Parkes (1959) proposed a system of nomenclature (the H-P system), based on homologies, that has become standard for molt studies in North America. However, presumably analogous similarities in pattern between first basic and definitive basic plumages have obscured homologies. Many plumages conventionally known as "first basic" are better considered as novel first-cycle plumages that lack homologous counterparts in subsequent cycles. Consequently, current nomenclature does not consistently reflect between-species homologies. Howell and Corben (2000b) proposed that traditional juvenal plumage can be considered an unambiguous starting point for a terminology that better reflects presumed homologies in basic plumages; alternate and other nonbasic plumages may not necessarily be homologous between species. Four underlying strategies of increasing complexity incorporate all known patterns of plumage succession: the Simple Basic Strategy, the Complex Basic Strategy, the Simple Alternate Strategy, and the Complex Alternate Strategy. We review inconsistency in the H-P system; explain the four underlying strategies; and discuss how one can identify homologies (if any) between plumages in first and subsequent cycles and among taxa. Many species have novel plumages added into their first plumage cycle; we argue that existing terminology for these plumages is unsuitable and we term them formative plumages attained by preformative molts. Finally, we provide examples of how this modified H-P system can be applied to diverse taxa of birds while reflecting the homology underlying all basic plumage cycles. Our revision validates the flexibility and utility of the H-P system. /// Todas las aves tienen patrones de sucesin del plumaje fundamentalmente similares. De este modo, Humphrey y Parkes (1959) propusieron un sistema de nomenclatura (el sistema H-P), basado en homologas, el cual ha sido de uso comn en estudios de muda de plumaje en Norte Amrica. Sin embargo, supuestas similitudes anlogas entre el primer plumaje bsico y el plumaje definitivo bsico han confundido las homologas. Muchos plumajes convencionalmente conocidos como "primer bsico" son considerados mejor como plumajes originales del primer ciclo que carecen de contrapartes homlogas en los ciclos siguientes. Consecuentemente, la nomenclatura actual no refleja las homologas entre especies. Howell y Corben (2000b) propusieron que el tradicional plumaje juvenil puede ser considerado como un punto de partida inequvoco para una terminologa que refleje mejor las homologas presuntas en los plumajes bsicos; los plumajes alternos y otros plumajes no bsicos pudieran no ser homlogos entre especies. Cuatro estrategias de creciente complejidad incorporan todos los patrones conocidos de sucesin de plumajes: La Estrategia Bsica Simple, La Estrategia Bsica Compleja, La Estrategia Alterna Simple, y La Estrategia Alterna Compleja. Examinamos ciertas inconsistencias en el sistema H-P; explicamos las cuatro estrategias subyacentes, y discutimos cmo se pueden identificar homologas (cuando existen) entre los plumajes del primer ciclo y de los ciclos siguientes, y entre taxa diferentes. Muchas especies tienen plumajes originales adicionales en su primer ciclo de plumaje; sostenemos que la terminologa actual para estos plumajes es inadecuada y los denominamos como plumajes formativos, logrados por mudas preformativas. Finalmente, damos ejemplos de como este sistema H-P modificado puede ser aplicado a diversos tipos de aves y al mismo tiempo reflejar la homologa subyacente a todos los ciclos de plumajes bsicos. Nuestra revisin valida la flexibilidad y utilidad del sistema H-P. 
10.2307/1367061| Seabirds were observed between Alaska and Hawaii along 158W longitude from 24 October to 6 November 1976. Their distributions and abundances corresponded remarkably well to oceanographic regions. Indices of seabird density dropped in a series of plateaus from 44 birds/km<sup>2</sup> in the Alaska Current System to less than 1 bird/km<sup>2</sup> in subtropic waters. Northern distribution records were found for six species. The Subarctic Boundary marked the center of the separation between subarctic and subtropic pelagic avifaunas. 
1369695|We compared techniques to assess diet at 17 Hen Harrier (Circus cyaneus) nests. Diet was measured directly from observations and compared to estimates from pellets, prey remains and a combination of pellets and remains. For data pooled across nests, pellets over-represented mammalian prey and under-represented avian prey. Prey remains over-represented large prey and under-represented small prey. Combining pellet and remains data did not eliminate these biases. Pellets gave higher diversity values than direct observations and detected more small prey species. For data analyzed on a nest by nest basis, estimates from pellets were significantly related to estimates from direct observations for three prey types by frequency and all types by biomass. These linear relationships were used to predict frequencies and biomass of prey types in the observed diet at five new nests. Our findings suggest that pellets are useful for estimates of prey diversity and as an index of the frequency of certain prey types in the diet, but direct observations are necessary to help quantify the biases inherent in diet estimates.
10.2307/1368613|Presence of one or both members of a pair at the nest site during the incubation and early chick stage reduces reproductive losses due to predation and weather stresses. We monitored the presence of pair members by the temporary removal of one member of several pairs of Roseate (Sterna dougallii) and Common (Sterna hirundo) Terns at nests at Cedar Beach, New York, to determine if vulnerability varies by reproductive stage, to compare species differences that might partially account for declines in Roseate Tern populations, and to examine their response to trapping. There were significant differences between species in the time to return to the nest following an initial disturbance, and Roseate Terns that were trapped and released took longer to return to the nest and resume incubating than did Common Terns. The nests of Roseate Terns were vulnerable (neither adult in attendance) for longer time than were the nests of Common Terns.
10.1525/cond.2013.120149|Researchers often attach radio transmitters and other devices to free-living birds without a clear understanding of the possible consequences for their study organisms or their data. Although transmitters may affect parental investment (nest defense and offspring provisioning), this possibility has received little attention. We tested this hypothesis by placing mock radio transmitters on male Northern Cardinals (
40072457|Many avian species from the temperate zone show low levels of genetic diversity when compared with species from the tropics, although there are some interesting exceptions, and species whose ranges occur across the temperate--tropical boundary could have characteristics of either or both zones. The distribution of the Streak-backed Oriole (
1370534| Birds show quite distinct changes in both external and internal appearance. An evolutionary interpretation of these cyclic life-history phenomena would benefit from a system of description aimed at mapping shared ancestries of arguably the "easiest" of traits: the molts and seasonal plumage changes. By 1959, Humphrey and Parkes had already provided the basis of such a system, but its development and application, especially with regard to the confusing first plumage cycle, by Howell et al. (2003), adds considerably to its power. I hope this leads to an upsurge of evolutionary studies of molt and plumage cycles that in turn provide the basis for analyses of other aspects of the flexible phenotype of birds. With such an increase, the study of molts and plumages could once again be at center stage of avian biology. /// Las aves muestran cambios bastante marcados en su apariencia externa e interna. Una interpretacin evolutiva de estos fenmenos cclicos de las historias de vida se beneficiara de un sistema de descripcin dirigido a mapear formas ancestrales compartidas de lo que se podra decir son los caracteres ms "fciles": las mudas y los cambios estacionales del plumaje. Hacia 1959, Humphrey y Parkes ya haban establecido la base de un sistema de este tipo, pero su desarrollo y aplicacin, especialmente con respecto al confuso primer ciclo del plumaje, por parte de Howell et al. (2003) incrementan considerablemente su poder. Espero que esto lleve a un rpido incremento de estudios evolutivos de la muda y los ciclos del plumaje que a su vez provean la base para analizar otros aspectos del flexible fenotipo de las aves. Con un incremento tal, el estudio de la muda y el plumaje podra una vez ms ocupar un lugar central en la ornitologa. 
10.2307/1369803| We measured antibodies to infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) in blood of nesting Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) females and immature Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) in the Baltic Sea, and in blood of Spectacled Eider (Somateria fischeri) females nesting in a remote area of western Alaska. Positive ( 1:16) IBDV titers occurred in 75% of the eiders and 45% of the Herring Gull chicks. In eiders, the prevalence of positive titers differed among locations. We found no evidence that IBDV exposure impaired the immune function of Herring Gull chicks, based on their response to inoculation of sheep red blood cells. We suggest that eider ducks and Herring Gulls have been exposed to IBDV, even in locations where contact with poultry is unlikely. The presence of this virus in wild bird populations is of concern because it causes mortality of up to 30% in susceptible poultry. 
40072341|We performed two studies to test whether the ability of open-ended learners to acquire new songs as adults depends on their having learned normal songs as juveniles. European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were kept in isolation for their first year. In the first study the birds were housed in a group with a wild-caught adult male following isolation. The subjects imitated each other but not the wild male and failed to develop normal phonology or syntax. In the second study each yearling was housed individually with a wild-caught adult male following isolation. These subjects developed good phonology and syntax but copied few or no song motifs from the wild adults. Taken together, the two studies indicate that starlings are capable of imitating new motifs and of acquiring species-typical phonology and syntax after a year of isolation. The contrasting results of the two studies suggest that imitation and the development of syntax are independent processes subject to different influences. /// Realizamos dos estudios para probar si la habilidad de aprender cantos nuevos de las aves adultas que aprenden independientemente de la edad, depende del aprendizaje de cantos normales cuando son jvenes. Mantuvimos individuos de Sturnus vulgaris aislados durante su primer ao. En el primer estudio, luego del aislamiento, los individuos fueron alojados en grupos con un macho adulto atrapado en su hbitat natural. Los sujetos se imitaron mutuamente, pero stos no imitaron al macho salvaje y no desarrollaron fonologa ni sintaxis normal. Se realiz un segundo estudio, con la diferencia que luego del aislamiento los juveniles fueron alojados individualmente con un adulto salvaje. Estos sujetos desarrollaron buena fonologa y sintaxis, pero imitaron pocos o ningn motivo del canto del adulto salvaje. Combinando ambos estudios, los resultados indican que esta especie es capaz de imitar nuevos motivos y de aprender la fonologa y sintaxis tpica de su especie, incluso despus de un ao de aislamiento. Los diferentes resultados de los dos estudios sugieren que la imitatin y el desarrollo de la sintaxis son procesos independientes sujetos a influencias diferentes.
1370048| Videocamera recordings of seven species of penguin, Emperor (Aptenodytes forsteri), Humboldt (Spheniscus humboldti), Adlie (Pygoscelis adeliae), Chinstrap (P. antarctica), Gentoo (P. papua), Macaroni (Eudyptes chrysolophus) and Rockhopper (E. chrysocome), swimming in large aquaria revealed that birds opened their beak underwater for less than a second immediately after initiating a dive. Overall, this beak-opening occurred in 64% of the immersions but, in all species, was associated with quick transitions between air and water, such as in porpoising or dives that were initiated rapidly. Two hypotheses are proposed to explain this behavior: beak-opening may be a signal that initiates bradycardia, such as is observed in unrestrained diving animals, or beak-opening may be associated with chemoreception to help detect potential prey or predators. /// En acuarios registramos con cmara de video a siete especies de pinginos, Aptenodytes forsteri, Spheniscus humboldti, Pygoscelis adeliae, P. antarctica, P. papua, Eudyptes chrysolophus y E. chrysocome. Los registros indicaron que las aves abren el pico bajo el agua por menos de un segundo inmediatamente despus de sumergirse al iniciar el buceo. En total, esta apertura del pico se registr en el 64% de las inmersiones y en todas las especies ocurri preferentemente en situaciones de transicin rpida entre aire y agua, como en "porpoising" o en buceos que se iniciaron abruptamente. Se proponen dos hiptesis para explicar esta conducta: la apertura del pico puede servir como una seal para iniciar la bradicardia, como se observa en animales buceando voluntariamente, o bien la apertura del pico podra estar asociada a quimiorecepcin para detectar potenciales presas o depredadores. 
10.2307/1369025|To help assess the function of multiple song types in the singing of the Chestnut-sided Warbler (Dendroica pensylvanica), a species with two song categories, I analyzed song diversity and variability in a Massachusetts population. Individual song repertoires contained up to 12 different song types (median 6 or 7), and included both accented-ending (AE) and unaccented-ending (UE) songs. AE song types were few, and were highly stereotyped both within and between individuals. In contrast, UE songs were variable, with many different types present in the population, and with different renditions of a type showing a larger range of variation. The distinction between constrained, stereotyped AE singing and flexible, variable UE singing suggests that song forms in the two song categories are specialized for different uses. AE songs are suited to comparative assessment of singers, long-range communication, or messages in which reduced ambiguity is crucial. UE songs may be specialized for communication over short distances or during interactions in which motivations and messages change rapidly. Chestnut-sided Warblers use most of the songs in their repertoires only infrequently, and no set of song types is shared by all members of a population. Consequently, the multiple song types within each song category are probably not connected to functions in which individuals benefit by displaying repertoire size, or in which particular song types encode special messages. Repertoire function instead probably involves a communication function for switches between commonly- and uncommonly-used song types.
10.2307/1369151|Correlates of egg hatchability in Pied Flycatchers were investigated during a four year study. Hatchability decreased in small eggs, the effect of egg size being more marked among fertile eggs, than in infertile eggs. There was a significant decrease in egg hatchability with increasing clutch size. Hatching success was higher for clutches with larger eggs and was associated with larger numbers of breeding recruits. However, hatching success was unrelated to female condition during incubation or to clutch initiation date. Hatching failure as a whole, and egg infertility in particular, followed a concave-up trajectory across the laying sequence, indicating an optimum for egg hatchability in intermediate positions of the clutch. No single cause can explain the relationship of egg hatchability to laying order. Although hatching success did not differ across female or male ages, it was significantly lower in pairs formed by yearling males and older females than in other pair/age combinations. Results are discussed in the light of possible trade-offs between clutch size and egg size and parental investment theory determining differential effort by males and females depending on their residual reproductive value.
4096494| In previous studies, bones from archeological midden deposits on Kodiak and Amchitka Islands, Aleutians, were erroneously identified as belonging to Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo), Pallas's Cormorant (P. perspicillatus), and Japanese Cormorant (P. capillatus), none of which is otherwise known from Alaska. These specimens are all re-identified as having come from the Double-crested Cormorant (P. auritus), which is much larger in Alaska than in middle and southern latitudes in North America. /// En estudios previos, se identificaron por error huesos encontrados en sitios arqueolgicos en las islas Kodiak y Amchitka, Aleutianas, como pertene-cientes a Phalacrocorax carbo, P. penicillatus y P. capillatus, ninguno de los cuales se conoce de otro modo en Alaska. Todos los especimenes mencionados fueron re-identificados como P. auritus, el cual es de tamano mucho mayor en Alaska que en las latitudes medias y sureas de Norte Amrica. 
10.2307/1367602|From 1966-70 and 1972-74, we studied relationships between Ferruginous Hawk (Buteo regalis) reproduction and abundance of their main prey, the black-tailed jackrabbit (Lepus californicus) in the eastern Great Basin Desert of central Utah. Correlation tests showed significant relationships between jackrabbit abundance and hawk reproduction: the population of nesting hawks, number of nesting pairs, total eggs laid and total young fledged varied in synchrony with jackrabbit abundance. Key Factor Analysis and stepwise removal procedures indicated that jackrabbit abundance influenced hawk reproduction in the following order of decreasing importance: number of nesting pairs; failure of nesting pairs to achieve maximum clutch size; total number of young fledged and total number of young hatched. Regression tests revealed that two of these, the failure to nest and achieve maximum clutch size, are important limiting factors on reproduction and at least partially act to regulate the size of this Ferruginous Hawk population.
10.2307/1369362|We performed an experiment to investigate effects of red leg bands on the behavior of male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). We presented models having either black, blue, or red leg bands to territorial male Red-winged Blackbirds to test the hypothesis that any color of band that contrasts with the color of the legs makes an individual appear abnormal or unhealthy and therefore subject to attack. Overall, territorial males responded equally aggressively to the black- and blue-banded models, but spent more time at distances greater than 10 m, displayed at lower intensities, and took longer to attack when the model was given red bands. Thus, red bands appeared to make the model initially more threatening to territorial male Red-winged Blackbirds. These results do not support the contrasting-color hypothesis and suggest that the effect of red bands is attributable to the bands matching the color of the male's epaulets. The failure of the contrasting-color hypothesis also leaves unresolved the different outcomes of one previous experiment showing a negative effect of red bands, and two analyses of long-term banding studies that detected no effect of red bands.
10.2307/1369993|We describe two major patterns of abundance of different types of canopy foliage-gleaning birds at four sites (northwestern Canada, eastern Canada, European Russia, and central Siberia) in boreal forest. First, because of the extreme numerical dominance and breadth of habitat use of the Chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs), the European Russian sites stand as outliers to the relationships between the number of species and the abundance of all foliage-gleaning birds, as well as to more detailed patterns of the composition of the foliage-gleaner guild. The Chaffinch is one of the few canopy foliage-gleaning birds in temperate forests that is abundant in agricultural habitats during the nonbreeding season, which probably allowed a rapid expansion of its range and growth in abundance with the advent of farming in Europe. The second pattern emerges when the European Russian sites are excluded from analyses: the proportional abundance and number of species of warblers or warbler-like birds were positively related to overall abundance of foliage gleaners. This suggests that warblers prosper when there is high resource productivity during the breeding season. A possible resolution between the patterns found in European Russia and the other boreal forest sites may be that Fringilla are functionally equivalent to warblers and have essentially replaced warblers to achieve their high abundance. The patterns of relative abundance give support to both the Resource Seasonality Hypothesis (warblers versus tits), and the Ecological Replacement Hypothesis (Fringilla versus warblers) as explanations for shifts in the numerical dominance of different types of foliage gleaners in different regions.
4096487| We studied the foraging behavior of insectivorous songbirds during the breeding season at four sites in Illinois, each with restored open-canopy savanna habitat (65% mean canopy closure) and closed-canopy forests (89% mean canopy closure). We sampled and compared apparent tree species preference, foliage layer preference, and proportional use of different prey-attack maneuvers in the two habitats. In closed-canopy forests, three of nine songbird species foraged in black oak (Quercus velutina) and white oak (Q. alba) more than expected based on availability, and foraged less than expected in shade-tolerant trees such as sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and red elm (Ulmus rubra). Four species also displayed apparent preferences for black locust (Robinia pseudoacacia) and hackberry (Celtis occidentalis). In contrast, songbirds used tree species according to availability in open-canopy habitat. We observed apparent preferences for the shrub and subcanopy vegetation layers (0-5 m and 6-10 m) in open-canopy habitat and apparent preferences for the sub-canopy and lower canopy vegetation layers (6-10 m and 11-15 m) in closed-canopy forests. Relative use of prey-attack maneuvers in open versus closed-canopy habitat was significantly different for the Eastern Wood-Pewee (Contopus virens) and the Great Crested Fly catcher (Myiarchus crinitus), but not for foliage-gleaning species. These results suggest that restoration of oak savannas has important effects on the habitat use and foraging ecology of selected insectivorous birds. /// Estudiamos el comportamiento de forrajeo de aves canoras insectvoras durante la poca reproductiva en cuatro sitios en Illinois. Cada sitio contaba con hbitat restaurado de sabana de dosel abierto (65% de cobertura de dosel promedio) y con bosque de dosel cerrado (89% de cobertura de dosel promedio). Muestreamos y comparamos la preferencia aparente de especies de rboles, preferencia de estratos del follaje y uso proporcional de diferentes maniobras de ataque de presas por parte de las aves en los dos hbitats. En el bosque de dosel cerrado, tres de nueve especies de aves canoras forrajearon en Quercus velutina y en Q. alba en mayor proporcin de lo esperado de acuerdo a su disponibilidad en el hbitat, y forrajearon menos de lo esperado en rboles tolerantes a la sombra como Acer saccharum y Ulmus rubra. Cuatro especies tambin mostraron una preferencia aparente por Robinia pseudoacacia y Celtis occidentalis. De modo contrastante, en el hbitat de dosel abierto, las aves utilizaron las especies de rboles de acuerdo a su disponibilidad. Observamos preferencias aparentes por los estratos de vegetacion arbustivo y de subdosel (0-5 m y 6-10 m) en el habitat de dosel abierto y preferencia aparente por los estratos de vegetacin del subdosel y dosel bajo (6-10 m y 11-15 m) en el bosque de dosel cerrado. El uso relativo de maniobras de ataque de presas fue significativamente diferente entre hbitats de dosel abierto y dosel cerrado para Contopus virens y Myiarchus crinitus, pero no para las especies que forrajean recogiendo insectos de las hojas. Estos resultados sugieren que la restauracion de sabanas de Quercus tiene efectos importantes sobre el uso del hbitat y la ecologa de forrajeo de algunas especies de aves insectvoras. 
1370519| In the Galpagos Islands climate and food abundance vary strongly among vegetation zones and between seasons. We studied the foraging behavior of four mainly insectivorous Darwin's finch species on Santa Cruz Island. We compared foraging behavior between (1) the arid zone, where food is scarce, with the humid Scalesia zone, where food is abundant; and (2) within each zone between dry and wet seasons. The four species used different feeding substrates in the two vegetation zones and reacted flexibly to the seasonal variation by changing feeding techniques and substrates. Species mainly specialized in resource use and feeding techniques or showed no change in niche breadth when food became more limited in dry conditions. In the arid zone during the dry season, the Large Tree Finch (Camarhynchus psittacula) relied on its powerful biting beak to bite open the bark of dry twigs. The Woodpecker Finch (Cactospiza pallida) used twigs and cactus spines to access arthropods in tree holes and was the only species that significantly increased the diversity of feeding techniques. The use of tools extends the morphological properties of its beak temporarily without limiting behavioral versatility and flexibility. The Small Tree Finch (Camarhynchus parvulus) showed a shift in food types and had a high proportion of plant food in its diet. The Warbler Finch (Certhidea olivacea) was not present in our study site in the arid zone. /// En las Islas Galpagos el clima y la abundancia de comida cambia notablemente entre zonas de vegetacin y estaciones. En la Isla Santa Cruz estudiamos la conducta de forrajeo de cuatro especies de pinzones de Darwin que son mayormente insectvoras. Comparamos la zona rida donde la comida es escasa y de difcil acceso y la zona hmeda de Scalesia donde existe abundante comida, y dentro de cada zona entre estacin seca y hmeda. Las cuatro especies usaron diferentes substratos para alimentarse en las dos zonas de vegetacin y reaccionaron de modo flexible a la variacin estacional cambiando las tcnicas y substratos de alimentacin. En condiciones secas, cuando la comida se volvi limitada, las especies se especializaron principalmente en el uso de recursos y en la conducta de forrajeo, o no cambiaron su amplitud de nicho. En la zona rida durante la estacin seca, Camarhynchus psittacula cont con su poderoso pico penetrante para picar la corteza de ramas secas. Cactospiza pallida us ramitas y espinas de cactus para capturar artrpodos en los agujeros de los rboles y fue la nica especie que increment significativamente la diversidad de tcnicas para alimentarse. El uso de herramientas ampla temporalmente las propiedades morfolgicas de su pico sin limitar la versatilidad y flexibilidad de la conducta. Camarhynchus parvulus mostr cambios en los tipos de comida y present una alta proporcin de alimentos vegetales en su dieta. Certhidea olivacea estuvo ausente en nuestra rea de investigacin en la zona rida. 
90008053|The Rusty Blackbird (
10.2307/1369392| Using the single-sample variant of the doubly labeled water method (DLW), I quantified the field metabolic rate (FMR) and water flux of female Orange-breasted Sunbirds (Nectarinia violacea) during the incubation period. Concurrent to DLW measurements, I examined their incubation behavior and microclimate. These are the first measurements of FMR and water flux for a nectarivorous bird during incubation and the first for an Old World sunbird species. For 10 incubating female Orange-breasted Sunbirds (mean mass = 9.5 g), CO
10.2307/1370444|We collected 2,665 hr of behavioral information using video surveillance on 19 Mexican Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis lucida) pairs between 25 April and 26 July 1996. Prey deliveries per day increased as the nesting season progressed, with an average of 2.68 prey deliveries during incubation, 4.10 items during brooding, and 4.51 items during the nestling phase. The highest delivery rates were concentrated between 1-3 hours before sunrise (02:00-05:00) and 1-3 hours after sunset (18:00-21:00). Trip duration during diurnal hours increased 14 fold from incubation through the nestling phase, compared with a 7.2 fold increase during nocturnal hours. Nest bout duration decreased during both diurnal (36%) and nocturnal hours (76%) across the nesting season. Nest attentiveness decreased as the nesting season progressed, from 97% during the incubation phase to 47% during the nestling phase. Owls attended nests at higher rates during diurnal hours than nocturnal hours across all nesting phases. Activity patterns of Mexican Spotted Owls showed marked cyclical changes in response to ecological factors. Fluctuations in nesting behavior were related to changes in nesting phase and time of day.
10.2307/1369512|The relative importance of hatching asynchrony, egg mass and chick growth were studied to establish mass hierarchies in broods of the Black Kite (Milvus migrans). Relative growth of first-hatched chicks was the best predictor of degree of chick mass hierarchy, while the effect of egg mass differences was negligible. A quadratic equation best explained the relationship between hatching asynchrony and growth of first-hatched chicks, probably due to the logistic growth curves in birds. Growth of the first-hatched chicks during the hatching period was not related to weather, breeder experience, brood size or year, but had a slight negative correlation with laying date and a positive correlation with amount of food in nests. Growth of chicks during such a short period in a stage of low energy demand may be little affected by environmental factors.
40072340|During the breeding season, California Quail (Callipepla californica) form two types of groups: those with a single associated adult female (single family groups), and those with more than one associated female (communal family groups). Al-though single family groups are assumed to be the result of a monogamous pairing of the associated male and female, additional males often associate with these groups. I conducted a preliminary investigation of the genetic relationship among the adults and young in California Quail families using three single-locus microsatellite markers. Both male and female adults were excluded as being the parents of some proportion of the associated young. Females had higher exclusion rates in communal than in single families, while there was no difference for males. A limited number of young were excluded from being the offspring of any of the adults associated with their family. In the first of three study years, adults were more related to one another in families than they were to the population; this relationship disappeared in subsequent years, possibly as a result of disturbance on site. These results suggest that families form, in part, as a result of factors other than direct genetic parentage. These factors might include selection for increasing group size, intermittent kin selection, and proximate factors related to the gregarious behavior of California Quail. /// Durante la estacin de cra, Callipepla californica forma grupos de dos tipos: con una sola hembra adulta asociada (grupo de familia simple) y con ms de una hembra asociada (grupo de familia comunal). Aunque se asume que los grupos de familia simple son el resultado del apareamiento mongamo del macho y de la hembra asociados, a menudo se unen a estos grupos machos adicionales. Conduje una investigatin preliminar de la relacin gentica entre los adultos y los jvenes en familias de Callipepla californica usando tres marcadores micro-satelitales de loci nicos. Tanto los machos como las hembras adultas fueron excluidos como los padres de una cierta proportin de los jvenes asociados. Las hembras presentaron tasas ms altas de exclusin en las familias comunales que en las simples, mientras que no hubo diferencia para los machos. Pocos jvenes fueron excluidos como descendientes de alguno de los adultos asociados a sus familias. En el primero de los tres aos de estudio, los adultos estuvieron ms relacionados entre s en las familias, de lo que estuvieron en la poblacin. Esta relacin desapareci en los aos subsecuentes, posiblemente como resultado de disturbios en el sitio de estudio. Estos resultados sugieren que las familias se forman, en parte, como consecuencia de otros factores adems del parentesco gentico directo. Estos factores podran incluir la seleccin por tamaos de grupo mayores, la seleccin de parentesco intermitente y factores directos relacionados con el comportamiento gregario de Callipepla californica.
10.2307/1369324|Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) were virtually absent from central Ontario as recently as 1948 but now exceed 60 pairs/100 km<sup>2</sup> in some areas. Black Duck (A. rubripes) numbers in central Ontario appear stable with breeding densities in some areas exceeding 40 pairs/100 km<sup>2</sup>. Densities of breeding Mallards and Black Ducks exhibit spatial variability suggesting that habitat quality may influence distributions. We used data from Canadian Wildlife Service breeding pair surveys to classify wetlands as used only by breeding Mallards, used only by breeding Black Ducks, shared by Mallards and Black Ducks, or vacant (i.e., not used by either species). We evaluated wetland fertility by analyzing water chemistry (color, pH, conductivity, alkalinity [CaCO<sub>3</sub>], calcium, magnesium, sodium, potassium, total phosphorus) and physical characteristics (shoreline irregularity index [SI], percent open water, wetland size) for 447 wetlands. Wetlands that Mallards shared with Black Ducks or solely occupied were the most fertile. Vacant wetlands were least fertile. Areas that supported few Mallards or Black Ducks had relatively infertile wetlands; Mallards predominated in areas with relatively fertile wetlands. We conclude that wetland fertility has influenced the distribution of Mallards and Black Ducks in central Ontario. Mallards and Black Ducks apparently prefer wetlands with similar characteristics (i.e., high fertility, moderate open water, high SI, and small size), so competition for breeding sites is likely. Historical data from Ontario lead us to suspect that this competition may have contributed to the decline in Black Duck numbers.
10.2307/1368651|We summarized breeding bird censuses done from 1966 to 1985 on two Sierra Nevada forest plots, one that was burned in 1960 and an adjacent, unburned control. Our objective was to examine yearly trends in bird abundance in relation to changing vegetation structure and composition and in relation to yearly weather variation. From 1969 to 1983 shrub cover on the burned plot increased from about 22% to over 43%, and density of overstory trees increased by about 50%. Herb and grass cover decreased during this period, as did density of snags originally resulting from the fire. During this period of rapid postfire succession, total density of birds was nearly equal on the two plots but species richness increased on the burned plot compared with the unburned plot. Ground- and brush-foraging birds were more numerous on the burned plot, and their population size increased significantly from 1966 to 1985. Foliage-searching birds were more numerous on the unburned plot, and their populations were stable over time relative to the burned plot. In contrast, numbers of foliage-searching birds increased significantly on the burned plot. Bark-gleaning birds declined on the burned plot, probably in response to loss of snags used for nesting by most of these species. Variations in weather, as indicated by measures of temperature and precipitation, did not explain yearly variations in bird populations. Rather, changing vegetation structure resulted in predictable trends related to the foraging and nesting habits of the birds we studied.
10.2307/1369076|Among oscines, song sharing with neighbors and large song repertoires may be enhanced in resident populations. This idea was explored with the Rufous-sided Towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) by studying singing behavior in a resident Florida and a migratory New York population. Florida males (n = 15) sang an average of eight song types per male, but New York males (n = 15) sang only 3.5. Furthermore, unlike the New York males, the Florida males shared most song types in their larger repertoires with immediate neighbors. These marked differences in sharing and repertoires need further study in the towhees and other species in order to understand more clearly the processes that lead to such population differences.
40072389|Past studies of the marine diets of Surf Scoters (
4096555| Models of climate change generally predict rising mean global temperatures combined with greater variability in some regions. While relationships between mean temperature and several reproductive parameters are well documented, the effect of day-to-day variation in ambient temperature has received little attention. In our study, temperature variation had no significant effects on clutch size in a wild population of Great Tits (Parus major). In contrast, egg mass tended to be smaller when ambient temperatures during the week prior to laying were more variable. We suggest that variable temperatures may be disadvantageous to an egg-laying bird. Thermal variability should therefore be considered as a discrete factor, distinct from mean temperature, when assessing the consequences of climate changes for breeding birds. /// Los modelos de cambio climtico generalmente predicen un aumento en la temperatura media global, junto con una mayor variabilidad en algunas regiones. Mientras que la relacin entre la temperatura media y varios parmetros reproductivos est bien documentada, el efecto de la variacin de la temperatura ambiente de un da a otro ha recibido poca atencin. La variacin en la temperatura no tuvo efectos significativos en nuestro estudio del tamao de la nidada en una poblacin silvestre de Parus major. En contraste, la masa del huevo tendi a ser menor cuando las temperaturas ambiente durante la semana previa a la puesta fueron ms variables. Sugerimos que las temperaturas variables podran ser desventajosas para un ave que est poniendo huevos. La variacin trmica debera por lo tanto ser considerada como un factor discreto, diferente de la temperatura media, cuando se evaluan las consecuencias del cambio climtico para las aves reproductivas. 
10.2307/1369330|The effect of temporarily removing mates on the behavior of male and female Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) was examined during the pre-breeding periods in 1990 and 1991. Male screech-owls increased singing rates and both males and females increased movement rates after removal of mates. Increased song output and movement appear to represent attempts either to re-establish contact with an absent mate or to attract a new mate. In support of the mate attraction hypothesis, five screech-owls apparently acquired new mates after mate removal. Male screech-owls sang more and moved more than females after mate removal, suggesting either that males place a higher priority on re-establishing contact with an absent mate or that males are more active in their attempts to attract new mates. Bounce songs were used more than whinny songs after mate removal, suggesting that bounce songs are more important in intersexual communication. Extended bounce songs were given more frequently after mates were released, and were typically uttered near potential nest cavities. These songs may be used to draw attention to suitable nesting cavities, a resource that may be important in mate choice.
40072332|We assessed population genetic subdivisin among four colonies of Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima v-nigrum) breeding in the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD), Alaska, using microsatellite genotypes and DNA sequences with differing modes of inheritance. Significant, albeit low, levels of genetic differentiation were observed between mainland populations and Kigigak Island for nuclear intron lamin A and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region. Intercolony variation in haplotypic frequencies also was observed at mtDNA. Positive growth signatures assayed from microsatellites, nuclear introns, and mtDNA indicate recent colonization of the YKD, and may explain the low levels of structuring observed. Gene flow estimates based on microsatellites, nuclear introns, and mtDNA suggest asymmetrical gene flow between mainland colonies and Kigigak Island, with more individuals on average dispersing from mainland populations to Kigigak Island than vice versa. The directionality of gene flow observed may be explained by the colonization of the YKD from northern glacial refugia or by YKD metapopulation dynamics. /// Se evalu la subdivision gentica poblacional en cuatro colonias de Somateria mollissima v-nigrum que se reproducen en el delta del ro Yukon-Kuskokwim (DYK), Alaska, mediante el uso de microsatlites y secuencias de ADN, marcadores que presentan patrones de herencia diferentes. Se observaron niveles significativos, aunque bajos, de diferenciacin gentica entre las poblaciones del continente y la de la isla Kigigak para el intrn nuclear lamin A y para la regin de control mitocondrial (ADNmt). Tambin se observ variatin en las frecuencias de haplotipos de ADNmt entre las colonias. La evidencia de crecimiento positivo obtenida a partir de microsatlites, intrones nucleares y ADNmt indican colonizacin reciente del DYK y podran explicar los bajos niveles de estructura poblacional observados. Las estimaciones de flujo gnico con base en microsatlites, intrones nucleares y ADNmt sugieren flujo gnico asimtrico entre las poblaciones continentales y la poblacin de la Isla Kigigak, con ms individuos dispersndose de las poblaciones del continente a la de la isla Kigigak, que viceversa. La directin del flujo gnico observada podra atribuirse a la colonizacin del DYK desde un refugio glaciar ubicado al norte, o a la dinmica metapoblacional en el DYK.
1370680| Hydrogen stable-isotope analysis of feathers is an increasingly popular method for estimating the origins of migrating and wintering birds. Use of this method requires that investigators know which feathers are grown on breeding grounds and how the hydrogen stable-isotope ratios of feathers ( D
10.2307/1369182| Continental populations of the Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) have declined drastically in the last quarter century. Despite many investigations of its breeding biology, the species has never been studied during the winter. Historically, most birds have wintered at lower elevations in inland California. We used radio telemetry to describe the movement patterns and habitats of plovers on the Pixley National Wildlife Refuge, Tulare County (1992-1993) and Carrizo Plain, San Luis Obispo County (1993-1994) of California. The first plovers were seen 7-20 October each year, with most birds arriving in early November. The daily survival rate for the 44 transmittered plovers was 0.9996 based upon 2,395 telemetry days of information. The calculated survival probability for the 1 November to 15 March winter period was 0.9474. Plovers foraged and roosted in loose flocks of 2 to >1,100 birds, with average flock size increasing late in the season at premigratory staging areas. Flock integrity was poorly developed as birds captured and telemetered together were, with one exception, not relocated together. The average minimum distance that the 44 plovers moved was 1.17  1.42 km/day. Movements of individuals were highly variable due to the tendency of a bird to remain at a locale for a few days then move to a new area. Plovers moved >55 km between weekly relocations on seven occasions. The longest documented move was 127 km across the Temblor Mountains between 29 December 1993 and 5 January 1994. Site fidelity seemed poorly developed and the Carrizo Plain and southern San Joaquin Valley populations were considered biologically sympatric. Plovers at the Pixley NWR were usually relocated on contiguous croplands that had been recently cultivated. At both study areas, however, plovers preferred heavily grazed native rangelands. They used burned fields primarily for night roosting. Alkali flats, historically extensive but virtually nonexistent today, were the most favored habitat, where available. Flocks of plovers departed from California in mid-March each year and were recorded back on breeding areas in Colorado the third week of March. We conclude that plovers are being forced to use cultivated lands during winter in the San Joaquin Valley, and birds in relict populations at both locales are dependent upon core areas of native habitat in October and November especially. 
10.2307/1368736|Banding and retrapping of adult Ancient Murrelets (Synthliboramphus antiquus) and chicks at Reef Island, in the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia was carried out over 6 years. The breeding status of adults was determined by inspecting brood patches, or by finding birds with eggs or chicks, or was based on the date of capture. Retrapping of breeders gave an estimate of annual survival of 77%, lower than estimates for other alcids. Reproductive success under undisturbed conditions was measured in 2 years, and averaged 1.54 chicks per breeding pair per year; unusually high for an alcid. Nonbreeders visiting the colony were mainly in their second or third year, and breeding probably begins in the third or fourth year. Three birds reared on Reef Island were retrapped at a nearby colony, and many prospectors visiting Reef Island must have originated from several other colonies. The high mortality of adult Ancient Murrelets on their breeding colonies could explain the evolution of their precocial departure strategy.
10.2307/1369752|The timing of arrival from spring migration was studied in 4 years for male Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) in central Spain. Heritability and repeatability analyses were performed at several levels of familial resemblance and male age in order to determine whether arrival times are consistent within individuals between years and are similar between relatives. Oldest males arrived earlier. Arrival time explained much of the variation in laying time and number of young fledged. Age-independent variation in wing length also affected arrival date, the males with longest wings settling earlier. Arrival times were not repeatable within individuals across years and were not similar between relatives (parents-sons, full-sibs). Although genetic variation may exist in departure dates of long-distance migrant birds, the close connection of an early arrival to high reproductive success may have depleted genetic variation in arrival time. In addition, environmental variation probably is too high to detect significant heritability in arrival times without very large sample sizes.
10.1525/cond.2012.120022|After a severe population reduction during the mid-20
10.1525/cond.2012.110145|Numerous species use socially derived information from conspecifics to evaluate the quality of potential habitat. We examine whether conspecific cues influence Chimney Swift (
40306208|Stable isotopes have become an accepted method to track resource acquisition and nutrient utilization by birds. Many studies have used these methods to examine nutrient allocation and utilization during egg formation. None, however, has addressed the potential influence of nutrient utilization and movement during embryo development on the isotopic signature of egg components or its implications for sampling protocols. Such fractionation would distort the isotopic signature in incubated eggs, resulting in conclusions based on eggs that may not reflect resource allocation during formation. Using incubated domestic chicken (
10.2307/1369207|The typical Laysan Finch (Telespiza cantans) nest on Laysan Island is composed primarily of the bunchgrass Eragrostis variabilis, and is hidden from view within a bunchgrass clump. About one-third of the nests have two or more plants species in the nest substrate and canopy. Nests are usually in the lower two-thirds of the bunchgrass clump, and in the lee of the prevailing winds. The dimensions of nests and nest substrates were compared between the predominant vegetation associations: bunchgrass and viney. Almost all nests occurred in these two associations. Nests in the bunchgrass association had more of their canopies composed of a single plant species, had substrates with greater maximum heights, had more cover over the nest cups, and had wider outer nest diameters. Nine other nest and nest substrate variables showed no difference between the two vegetation types, nor did clutch size and fledging success differ significantly, although evidence suggested that fledging success may differ for early (or late) season nesters. Nearest-neighbor distances of simultaneously active nests were larger in the bunchgrass association than in the viney, and nest densities were approximately half. Nests were relatively more aggregated in the viney association. The viney association occupies half as much total area as the bunchgrass association, but it appears to be the most productive per unit area for nesting. The rapid invasion over the past 29 years by a non-native bush (Pluchea indica) into this important vegetation association warrants further study into the possibility of vegetation control.
10.2307/1368229|We studied variation in density estimates from spot mapping that was attributable to analysts and observers, using expert birders with little or no prior experience with spot mapping. Three observers independently spot mapped one 42-ha plot (Markwood) in mixed-conifer forest, and four others independently spot mapped another (Teakettle). All observers analyzed all maps. Consistency among analysts and observers in estimating the numbers of territories of breeding species on each plot was generally poor. Across all combinations of analysts and maps, 71% of all ANOVAs had significant analyst and/or observer effects. Observer effects were generally greater than analyst effects. When observers analyzed their own species maps, CVs of individual species ranged from 0% to 173% (mean 41%) at Markwood and from 0% to 188% (mean 60%) at Teakettle. As in similar studies, mean CVs from pooled totals of all species were less than those from individual species and were within the range of variation found by other researchers. Based on the range of CVs observed among species in this study, the number of sample plots needed to detect a statistical difference in density of a given species between samples is probably prohibitive for most studies. Instead, practitioners need to design studies to control observer and analyst variability.
4151083| National parks in Alaska are generally assumed to be high-quality, undisturbed wildlife habitats. However, these parks attract recreational users, whose presence may reduce the suitability of key habitats for nesting shorebirds.In Kenai Fjords National Park, Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) often breed on gravel beaches that are also popular campsites. In this study, we examined the effects of recreational activities in coastal Alaska on reproductive performance of Black Oystercatchers. We monitored survival of nests and chicks on 35 to 39 breeding territories annually during four breeding seasons (2001-2004). Most recreational disturbance on these territories occurred after the peak hatching date of first clutches.Annual productivity was low (average of 0.35 chicks per pair), but was not strongly affected by recreational disturbance. Daily survival of nests varied annually and declined over the season. Our results suggest that nest survival was lower during periods of extreme high tides. Daily survival rate of broods increased over the season and was higher on island than mainland territories, likely due to differences in predator communities. Territory occupancy rate and site fidelity were high; 95% of color-banded oystercatchers returned to the same breeding territory in the subsequent year. We conclude that Black Oystercatchers are resilient to low levels of recreational disturbance. However, in light of projected increases in recreation, we suggest managers move campsites away from the traditional nest sites identified in this study to minimize future disturbances. /// Se asume con frecuencia que los parques nacionales de Alaska son ambientes no disturbados de alta calidad para la vida silvestre. Sin embargo, estos parques atraen visitantes cuya presencia puede reducir la aptitud de los ambientes clave para nidiflcacin de las aves playeras. En el Parque Nacional Kenai Fjords, Haematopus bachmani generalmente cra en las playas de grava, lugares que son tambin sitios populares para acampar. En este estudio, examinamos los efectos de las actividades de recreacin en la costa de Alaska sobre el rendimiento reproductivo de H. bachmani. Seguimos anualmente la supervivencia de nidos y pichones en 35 a 39 territorios de cra durante cuatro estaciones reproductivas (2001-2004). La mayora de los disturbios ocasionados por las actividades de recreacin en estos territorios se present luego del pico de eclosin de las primeras nidadas. La productividad anual fue baja (promedio de 0.35 pichones por pareja), pero no fue severamente afectada por los disturbios de las actividades de recreacin. La supervivencia diaria de los nidos vari anualmente a lo largo de la estacin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la supervivencia de los nidos fue menor durante los perodos de mareas extremadamente altas. La tasa de supervivencia diaria de las nidadas increment a lo largo de la estacin y fue mayor en las islas que en los territorios continentales, probablemente debido a diferencias en las comunidades de depredadores. La tasa de ocupacin de los territorios y la fidelidad al sitio fue alta; el 95% de los individuos marcados con anillos de colores de H. bachmani retorn al mismo territorio de cra al ao siguiente. Concluimos que H. bachmani es resiliente a bajos niveles de disturbio ocasionados por las actividades de recreacin. Sin embrago, a la luz de los incrementos proyectados en las actividades de recreacin, sugerimos a los responsables del manejo de estas reas que alejen a los sitios de campamento de los sitios de nidificacin tradicionales identificados en este estudio para minimizar futuros disturbios. 
10.2307/1368200|I examined intraseasonal reproductive trade-offs in European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) females breeding in central New Jersey in 1984-1988. Among females experimentally forced to rear enlarged broods, one of four treatments reduced the likelihood of initiating a second clutch, but there was no clear relationship between first brood size or reproductive success and likelihood of initiating a second clutch. Females that initiated second clutches laid smaller first clutches, but reared larger first broods relative to their original clutches, than did females that did not initiate second clutches. For females rearing unmanipulated first broods, first brood reproductive effort did not affect the likelihood of initiating a second clutch. Among both experimental and control females, only those individuals that initiated first clutches relatively early laid second clutches. Neither brood size in manipulated broods nor reproductive success in control nests affected second brood reproductive success, but those females that reared broods larger than their clutches laid smaller second clutches. Clutch size in second broods declined seasonally, but was a poor predictor of the number of second brood fledglings. Since some second broods were successful and intraseasonal costs did not affect second brood success, it is unclear why only 44% of females initiated second broods. Compared to artificially synchronized broods of the same size, asynchronous hatching increased neither the probability of initiating a second clutch nor the reproductive success of second broods. Thus asynchronous hatching in first broods was not a strategy to increase reproductive success in subsequent broods.
10.2307/1367139|Although the importance of olfaction in birds is being increasingly recognized, its role in species with very small olfactory bulbs, such as corvids, is largely unknown. In field experiments designed to examine whether Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica) use olfaction to locate hidden food, we found that magpies uncovered significantly more caches of suet and raisins scented with cod liver oil than control caches. We suggest that in recovering caches, magpies use a multicue system that may involve both memory and visual or olfactory cues. Olfactory cues may be particularly important in finding and taking food hidden by other individuals.
10.2307/1367210|Several aspects of the skua long call display were examined to determine their species specificity. Acoustical parameters were examined for 70 long calls of 24 South Polar Skuas (Catharacta maccormicki) and 61 long calls of 17 Brown Skuas (C. lonnbergi) at Palmer Station, Antarctica. I found no significant species differences in call composition (notes/call), call duration, or note duration. Despite large range overlaps, the species differed significantly in four parameters. On average, South Polar Skua notes had a faster repetition rate, lower pitch, lower average frequency, and more harmonics than those of Brown Skuas. Differences among individuals were apparent for all acoustic parameters, but again were most marked for note repetition rate, pitch, average frequency, and number of harmonics. Film analysis of 109 long calls made by over 30 South Polar Skuas and of 44 calls made by 12 Brown Skuas revealed that South Polar Skuas tended to lean farther back at some point in the long call display. About 25% of the birds, however, gave displays that some previous researchers considered atypical for these species, and more than 36% of the birds showed intra-individual variation in display postures. Variation limits the value of these visual and acoustic aspects of the long call display for individual and species recognition of skuas at Palmer. The value of these parameters for answering evolutionary and taxonomic questions about skuas, however, has yet to be assessed.
10.1525/cond.2012.110167|The Brown-headed Nuthatch (
10.2307/1368452|A 5-year study was conducted that assessed Canada Goose (Branta canadensis moffitti) productivity and nest location in relationship to a controlled pool elevation. Data on clutch size were obtained for 108 nests of the 128 nests located, and no significant variation among years was detected. Nest success for the study period ranged from 66 to 86% while the number of nests varied from 22 to 29. No flooding of nests occurred because of the higher water levels, and nest productivity did not change significantly. Aspect of visibility was also found to be important with 77% of the geese having a view of the water.
10.2307/1367001|Resource use by Cassin's Kingbirds (Tyrannus vociferans) and Western Kingbirds (T. verticalis) was studied during the breeding season in southeastern Arizona. The former nested predominantly in riparian creek habitat, while the latter nested in more open desert habitat. However, both species nested together where creeks flowed through open habitat. Here, they used similar nest sites, foraged in similar ways, and fed nestlings similar diets (taxonomically and by size). The nesting habits of the two species in the same habitat were more alike than those of members of the same species nesting in different habitats. Breeding success of Cassin's Kingbirds in open riparian habitat was lower than in denser riparian habitat, owing to more predation. However, we found no evidence of smaller clutch size or slower nestling growth, or more starvation in this habitat despite the lack of ecological divergence. These data indicate that competition for food is not likely to be a significant factor in maintaining the habitat separation between these two species.
1370033| Juvenile ratios estimated using numbers of hatch year (HY) and after-hatch-year (AHY) Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) counted concurrently during at-sea surveys have been used to estimate fecundity in this species. These "concurrent" juvenile ratios assume that HY birds remain in an area, and are likely biased because they do not account for potential differences in emigration rate of HY and AHY birds. We studied the emigration rates of adult and juvenile Marbled Murrelets marked with radio-transmitters. Juveniles had a high emigration rate compared to adults. The weekly local survival rate () of newly radio-tagged HY birds was 27%. AHY local survival was 95% during incubation and early chick rearing, suggesting a resident population during the breeding season. We calculated juvenile ratios from 1996-1998 using (1) HY counts corrected for emigration and mean AHY counts around the breeding season peak, and (2) HY and AHY counts from concurrent at-sea surveys. The average "corrected" juvenile ratio (0.13  0.05 SE) was higher than the "concurrent" juvenile ratio (0.04  0.02 SE) but lower than estimates of fecundity from nest monitoring (0.18-0.22). Low juvenile ratios from at-sea surveys could result either from an unknown proportion of nonbreeding birds in the population, or, more likely, from differences in the at-sea distribution of AHY and HY birds. Fluctuation in the timing of the peak number of AHY birds across years might result in an uncorrectable bias in the counts. Because of biases and potential problems, caution is needed when interpreting juvenile ratios from at-sea surveys. /// Utilizamos los cocientes entre individuos juveniles (nacidos en un ao) y adultos (nacidos en aos anteriores) de Brachyramphus marmoratus, censados simultneamente durante conteos en el mar, para estimar la fecundidad de esta especie. Estos cocientes "simultneos" de individuos asumen que los juveniles permanecen en una misma rea, y podran estar sesgados ya que no toman en cuenta diferencias en las tasas de migracin de juveniles y adultos. Estudiamos las tasas de emigracin de individuos juveniles y adultos de B. marmoratus marcados con radio-transmisores. Los juveniles tuvieron una tasa alta de emigracin comparada con los adultos. La tasa de supervivencia local semanal () para juveniles fue del 27%. La tasa de supervivencia local para adultos durante la incubacin e inicio de la cra de polluelos fue del 95%, sugiriendo que se trata de una poblacin residente durante la estacin reproductiva. Calculamos el cociente entre juveniles y adultos para 1996-1998 utilizando (1) conteos de juveniles corregidos por emigracin y promedio de adultos contados durante el pico de la estacin reproductiva, y (2) juveniles y adultos contados simultneamente durante los censos. El cociente "corregido" promedio entre juveniles a adultos (0.13  0.05 EE) fue mayor que el cociente "simultneo" (0.04  0.02 EE) pero menor que las estimaciones de fecundidad obtenidas por medio del monitoreo de nidos (0.18-0.22). Los bajos cocientes obtenidos de conteos en el mar podran explicarse por la presencia de una proporcin desconocida de aves no-reproductivas en la poblacin, o, ms probablemente, por diferencias existentes en la distribucin de juveniles y adultos en el mar. Fluctuaciones anuales en la sincronizacin del perodo pico de la estacin reproductiva podran introducir error a los conteos de adultos. Debido a estos sesgos y problemas potenciales, es importante interpretar con cautela los cocientes entre juveniles y adultos obtenidos de conteos en el mar. 
10.2307/1367498|Nest site selection by Eastern and Western kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus and T. verticalis) was studied at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, and results were analyzed using multivariate techniques. Principal component analysis of overstory vegetation characteristics for randomly selected plots defined the habitat space of the study area in terms of the major components of variation in the vegetation. Discriminant function analysis of the random plots identified the major trend in the vegetation (corresponding roughly to a north-south topographical gradient), and characterized the differences between north- and south-zone habitat types. Principal component analysis of the vegetation characteristics of kingbird nest sites determined the relative position of each species in the habitat space. Virtually all of the Western Kingbird sites and most of the Eastern Kingbird sites appeared to be situated in that portion of the habitat space considered to represent north-zone habitat. Projection of the nest site data onto the random plot discriminant axis indicated that Eastern Kingbird nest sites were more evenly distributed than those of Western Kingbirds along the major trend of variation in the forest vegetation. Discriminant function analysis of the nest sites identified the variables most important in characterizing the difference between the nest sites of the two species. Western Kingbird sites were characterized by fewer but larger trees than Eastern Kingbird sites. Western Kingbird nest trees were larger and taller, and Western Kingbird nests were placed higher than those of Eastern Kingbirds. Eastern Kingbirds behaved as habitat generalists, selecting nest sites from both available habitat types, and selecting nest trees from a wide range of tree sizes. Western Kingbirds behaved as specialists, selecting sites in only the north-zone habitat type, and nest trees from the larger sizes.
1370728| We studied monthly and annual variation in density estimates of nine forest bird species along an elevational gradient in an east Maui rainforest. We conducted monthly variable circular-plot counts for 36 consecutive months along transects running downhill from timberline. Density estimates were compared by month, year, and station for all resident bird species with sizeable populations, including four native nectarivores, two native insectivores, a non-native insectivore, and two non-native generalists. We compared densities among three elevational strata and between breeding and nonbreeding seasons. All species showed significant differences in density estimates among months and years. Three native nectarivores had higher density estimates within their breeding season (December-May) and showed decreases during periods of low nectar production following the breeding season. All insectivore and generalist species except one had higher density estimates within their March-August breeding season. Density estimates also varied with elevation for all species, and for four species a seasonal shift in population was indicated. Our data show that the best time to conduct counts for native forest birds on Maui is January-February, when birds are breeding or preparing to breed, counts are typically high, variability in density estimates is low, and the likelihood for fair weather is best. Temporal variations in density estimates documented in our study site emphasize the need for consistent, well-researched survey regimens and for caution when drawing conclusions from, or basing management decisions on, survey data. /// Estudiamos la variacin mensual y anual en estimaciones de la densidad de nueve especies de aves a lo largo de un gradiente altitudinal en una selva lluviosa del este de Maui. Realizamos conteos mensuales en parcelas circulares por un perodo de 36 meses consecutivos a lo largo de transectas ubicadas desde la lnea del bosque hacia abajo. Las estimaciones de densidad fueron comparadas entre meses, aos y estaciones considerando todas las especies de aves residentes con poblaciones considerables, incluyendo cuatro nectarvoros nativos, dos insectvoros nativos, un insectvoro no nativo y dos generalistas no nativos. Comparamos densidades entre tres estratos altitudinales y entre las estaciones reproductivas y no reproductivas. Todas las especies mostraron diferencias significativas en las estimaciones de densidad entre meses y aos. Tres nectarvoros nativos presentaron estimaciones de densidad mayores durante sus pocas reproductivas (diciembre-mayo) y mostraron disminuciones durante perodos de baja produccin de nctar luego de la estacin de cra. Excepto una, todas las especies insectvoras y generalistas presentaron mayores estimaciones de densidad durante sus pocas reproductivas (marzo-agosto). Las estimaciones de densidad de todas las especies tambin variaron con la altitud, y se encontraron cambios estacionales en las poblaciones de cuatro especies. Nuestros datos muestran que el mejor momento para realizar conteos de aves nativas de selva en Maui es enero-febrero, cuando las aves estn criando o preparndose para criar, los conteos son tpicamente altos, la variabilidad en las estimaciones de densidad es baja y la probabilidad de buen tiempo es ms alta. La variacin temporal en las estimaciones de densidad documentadas en nuestro sitio de estudio enfatizan la necesidad de regmenes de muestreo consistentes y bien establecidos, y sugiere cautela a la hora de sacar conclusiones para conservacin o tomar decisiones de manejo a partir de datos de muestreos. 
1370560| The Mascarene Petrel (Pseudobulweria aterrima), an endemic seabird of Runion Island, is one of the rarest and least known birds in the world. In this note we report on light-induced mortality in this species at Runion Island, in the Indian Ocean. Throughout most of the twentieth century, when Runion Island's population was relatively small, only three birds were found dead or dying. After instituting in 1996 a program encouraging the public to rescue downed seabirds, we received eight Mascarene Petrels, among which seven were banded and released. Four birds were fledglings attracted by lights while on their first flight to sea. These findings show for the first time since the end of the nineteenth century that Mascarene Petrels still breed at Runion. All fledglings were found in March (late austral summer), suggesting a synchronous summer breeding season. We discuss past and present effects of urban lights on this small population and propose a conservation plan. /// Pseudobulweria aterrima, un ave marina endmica de la isla Runion, es una de las aves ms raras y menos conocidas del mundo. En esta nota exponemos los resultados de un estudio sobre mortalidad en esta especie provocada por la iluminacin artificial en la isla Reunin. A travs de la mayor parte del siglo veinte, cuando la poblacin en la isla era relativamente pequea, slo tres aves fueron encontradas muertas o muriendo. Luego de instituir en 1996 un programa que incentiv al pblico a rescatar aves abatidas, recibimos ocho aves de las cuales siete fueron anilladas y liberadas. Cuatro de las aves eran volantones jvenes que fueron atrados por las luces durante su primer vuelo hacia el mar. Estos resultados muestran por primera vez desde fines del siglo diecinueve que P. aterrima se sigue reproduciendo con xito en esta isla. Los cuatro volantones fueron encontrados en el mes de marzo, lo que nos hace suponer que la reproduccin se realiza sincrnicamente durante el verano austral. Discutimos las consecuencias pasadas y actuales de las luces artificiales sobre esta pequea poblacin y proponemos un plan de accin para su conservacin. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100076|Researchers commonly model nest density as a function of ecological variables, but nests, like birds, can be undetected while present. In the Nebraska Sandhills in 2007, we used the rope-drag method on previously located Western Meadowlark (
1370696| Geographic variation in birdsong is known from a variety of taxa, but is especially common and most frequently reported in passerines with resource-based territorial mating systems. To date, relatively little data have been presented on patterns of song variation in species with lek and leklike mating systems. In this paper, we describe geographic song variation in the Golden Bowerbird (Prionodura newtonia) a species with a leklike mating system. We compared recordings of the species advertisement song, collected from five isolated forest blocks from across the species range in northeastern Australia. Golden Bowerbird advertisement song shows marked geographic variation in form. All males within a population sing a song similar to each other, but distinct from that of males from other locations. The song traits important in discriminating between the songs of the different populations were bandwidth, number of peaks, dominant frequency, fundamental frequency, internote interval, and pureness. Discriminant function analyses based on these traits were highly accurate in assigning songs to their population of origin. We then used playback experiments to test whether geographic song variation in Golden Bowerbirds is functional. In the playback experiments males responded more strongly to song from local dialects than from foreign dialects. We discuss our results in light of current hypotheses on the evolution of geographic song variation. /// La variacin geogrfica del canto de las aves es conocida para muchos taxa, pero es especialmente comn en paserinos con sistemas reproductivos territoriales basados en la disponibilidad de recursos. Hasta ahora, se han presentado relativamente pocos datos sobre la variacin del canto en especies con un sistema reproductivo con asambleas de cortejo (lek) y con sistemas reproductivos similares al tipo lek. En este trabajo, describimos las variaciones geogrficas del canto de Prionodura newtonia, una especie que presenta un sistema reproductivo del tipo lek. Comparamos grabaciones de los cantos de anuncio, colectados en cinco bosques aislados a lo largo del rango geogrfico de la especie en el noreste de Australia. El canto de anuncio de P. newtonia mostr una marcada variacin geogrfica en cuanto a la forma. Todos los machos pertenecientes a una misma poblacin cantaron de forma similar entre ellos, pero difirieron de machos pertenecientes a otras poblaciones. Los caracteres importantes que permitieron discriminar los cantos de las diferentes poblaciones fueron el ancho de la banda, el nmero de picos, la frecuencia dominante y fundamental, el intervalo entre notas, y la pureza. Los anlisis de funcin discriminante basados en estos caracteres fueron altamente precisos en asignar los cantos a sus poblaciones de origen. Luego, utilizamos experimentos de play-back para probar si la variacin geogrfica del canto en esta especie es funcional. En los experimentos de play-back los machos respondieron ms fuertemente a los cantos de los dialectos locales que a los extranjeros. Discutimos nuestros resultados en relacin a las hiptesis actuales respecto a la evolucin de la variacin geogrfica del canto. 
1370110| Landscape-level behavioral information is needed to understand factors that underlie animal distributions in disturbed habitats. I examined habitat use and activity budgets of Keel-billed Toucans (Ramphastos sulfuratus) in a pasture-dominated landscape in Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. The objectives were to compare habitat selection at two scales, and to describe activity budgets of toucans with an emphasis on how behavior varied by habitat type. Six toucans were followed between January and July 1998 for a total of 349 hr. I noted behavior, bird location, and habitat type. At one spatial scale, birds' individual movement area was a nonrandom portion of the overall study area. When time spent in habitats by individual toucans was compared to habitat available in individual movement areas, habitat selection was also nonrandom. Forest remnants were preferred at both scales. Toucans spent approximately equal time foraging and perching (35-40%). Calling, preening, and social interactions each occupied 10% or less of the birds' activity budgets. All activities occurred in similar proportions in all habitat types, suggesting that different habitats provide many of the same resources. Combining individual patterns of habitat selection with activity budgets yields a better understanding of factors that allow populations to persist in disturbed landscapes. /// Se requieren estudios de comportamiento enfocados a la escala de paisaje para comprender los factores que afectan la distribucin de los organismos en hbitats perturbados. Se examin el uso de hbitat y asignacin de actividades del tucn Ramphastos sulfuratus en paisajes dominados por pastizales en Los Tuxtlas, Mxico. Los objetivos fueron comparar la seleccin de hbitat a dos escalas espaciales y describir la asignacin de actividades de los tucanes poniendo nfasis en cmo el comportamiento es afectado por el tipo de hbitat. Seis tucanes fueron seguidos entre enero y julio de 1998 por un total de 349 hr. Registr el comportamiento, la posicin del ave, y el tipo de hbitat. A una de las escalas espaciales consideradas, el area individual de movimiento de las aves represent una porcin no azarosa del area total de estudio. Cuando el tiempo consumido por individuo en un hbitat determinado fue comparado con el hbitat disponible en las reas individuales de movimiento, la seleccin de hbitat difiri de una seleccin al azar. Los remanentes de selva fueron preferidos a ambas escalas. Los tucanes consumieron aproximadamente el mismo tiempo forrajeando y posados (35-40%). Los llamadas, as como las interacciones sociales ocuparon 10% o menos de la asignacin de actividades de las aves. Todas las actividades se llevaron a cabo en proporciones similares en todos los tipos de hbitat. La combinacin de patrones individuales de seleccin de hbitat con la asignacin de actividades proporciona una mejor comprensin de los factores que permiten la subsistencia de poblaciones en hbitats perturbados. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110166|To avoid competition for parental care, brood-parasitic Common Cuckoo (
10.2307/1368523|The Rock Shag (Phalacrocorax magellanicus) was found to be similar in molt patterns to other cormorants studied. It was previously thought that two predefinitive plumages occur in this species; this study shows there is only one predefinitive plumage, which is polymorphic and geographically variable. In addition, although the alternate and basic plumages were thought to be very distinct in aspect, I found that these plumages are similar, and specimens previously thought intermediate between alternate and basic plumage combine individual and geographical variation. Differences in frequencies of juvenal plumage phases and adult plumage variants between Chilean and Argentinian coastal populations suggest evolution in isolation by populations separated by a vicariance event such as the Llanquihue Glaciation (20,000 to 10,000 ybp).
10.2307/1368684|The hindlimb muscles were studied in 17 passerine species. In comparison, Parus spp. showed several myological modifications involving muscles flexor perforatus digiti II and flexor digitorum longus. Considering changes in functional muscular properties these modifications are explained as adaptations of the leg apparatus for an increase in grasping strength in species with a high propensity for hanging upside down under branches. The adaptive hypothesis is tested on the basis of the outgroup comparison method.
10.2307/1370158| The locomotor and respiratory patterns of six cackling Canada Geese (Branta canadensis minima) were examined during simulated +10 descending flight to determine if locomotor-respiratory coupling occurred. In half the birds, there was no locomotor-respiratory coupling, the remainder exhibited minimal partial coupling. We hypothesize that the absence of locomotor-respiratory coupling is probably of little energetic significance as descending flights tend to be of short duration and reduced power output. 
10.2307/1368482|Winter field censuses of Cedar Waxwings (Bombycilla cedrorum) in an urban area of central Oklahoma were used to evaluate which fruit characteristics influence avian choice. Abundance estimates (g/ha) of fruits of each species in the study area were made to determine the resource base available to waxwings. I hypothesized that waxwing foraging preferences would be correlated with one or more of the following fruit characteristics: (1) abundance, (2) color, (3) size, (4) height, (5) pulp-to-seed ratio, (6) percent water, (7) percent protein, and (8) caloric content. Preliminary data from 1983-1984 indicated that waxwings were selective; they ate mostly mistletoe (Phoradendron serotinum) and one species of a relatively small crab apple (Malus sp.) from the 16 species available. During the winter of 1984-1985, waxwings used mistletoe heavily, along with hackberry (Celtis sp.), until these species were mostly depleted. Yaupon and deciduous hollies (Ilex vomitoria and I. decidua) then were used heavily and became the most important overall food sources during the winter. Waxwings generally ate abundant species and seldom ate rare ones. Among the fruits consumed, the order of waxwing preference was related only to fruit abundance, size, and caloric content. Comparisons of the results with other studies of frugivorous birds shows only partial agreement on the fruit characteristics most influential in avian choice, suggesting that a number of factors interact to determine foraging preferences and that these factors are not constant for all frugivorous species.
10.2307/1368993|We studied Scissor-tailed Flycatchers (Tyrannus forficatus) in southwestern Oklahoma during 1991 and 1992. In spring, males arrived earlier than females, and the sex ratio remained biased toward males for at least four weeks after the first birds arrived. Males defended large, dispersed territories, individual males paired with single females, and all observed copulations were between females and the males on whose territories they nested. From a behavioral perspective, the mating system can be categorized as socially monogamous. There was, however, some behavioral evidence that extra-pair copulations may occur: males displayed in groups to females early in the nesting season and both males and females intruded onto territories. Males did not engage in nest building, incubation, or brooding of young, but both males and females fed nestlings and responded aggressively to potential predators near the nest. Clutch size averaged 4.6 eggs, the incubation period lasted an average of 14.8 days, and an average of 88.0% of eggs that were fully incubated hatched. The majority of pairs (23 of 30, 76.7%) fledged young in 1991, but not in 1992 (12 of 31, 38.7%) possibly because of weather-related nestling mortality. Successful pairs fledged an average of 3.7 and 2.8 young in 1991 and 1992, respectively. Approximately half (37 of 87, 42.5%) of the adults but none of the young (n = 108) banded in 1991 were sighted again in 1992. Adults exhibited a high degree of site fidelity between years.
1370045| We reanalyzed Quinn's (1992) mtDNA control region data set including new sequences from nine Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) and 10 Ross's Geese (Chen rossi) and found the same divergent lineages that Quinn (1992) attributed to vicariant separation of Lesser Snow Goose populations during the Pleistocene. However, peculiar patterns of mtDNA control region sequence variation, including a multimodal mismatch distribution of mtDNA sequences with two levels of population structuring and the sharing of two divergent haplotype lineages, are consistent with two hybridization episodes in Chen geese. Comparisons of mtDNA variation with historical and allozyme data sets compiled by Cooke et al. (1988) are consistent with the hypothesis that sharing of two mtDNA haplotype lineages between Ross's Goose and Lesser Snow Goose resulted from hybridization (Avise et al. 1992). Furthermore, population structure found within one haplotype cluster is consistent with Cooke et al. (1988) hypothesis of past allopatry between blue and white Lesser Snow Geese. /// Reanalizamos los datos de la regin de control del ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) de Quinn (1992), junto con nuevas secuencias de nueve individuos de la especie Chen caerulescens caerulescens y 10 de Chen rossi. Encontramos los mismos linajes divergentes que Quinn (1992) atribuy a la separacin vicariante de las poblaciones de C. c. caerulescens durante el Pleistoceno. Sin embargo, encontramos que las dos especies comparten dos linajes de haplotipos divergentes, y la distribucin de "mismatch" en secuencias del ADNmt mostr multimodalidad con dos niveles de estructuracin de la poblacin. Estos patrones peculiares estn de acuerdo con la hiptesis de que hubo dos episodios de hibridizacin en gansos del gnero Chen. Los datos histricos y de aloenzimas compilados por Cooke et al. (1988) tambin apoyan esta hiptesis (Avise et al. 1992). Adems, la estructura de la poblacin dentro de un grupo de haplotipos es consistente con la hiptesis de Cooke et al. (1988) acerca de la pasada alopatra entre los morfos azul y blanco de C. c. caerulescens. 
10.2307/1369729|We carried our bilateral dissections of the hindlimb musculature of 51 preserved specimens of the Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus) in order to assess the degree of anatomical variation in a nonpasseriform taxon. We found three variations. M. iliofibularis, described as typically single-headed in the Piciformes, had two distinct heads in 18 of the 51 specimens (unilateral in 11 and bilateral in 7). M. pubo-ischio-femoralis is described as single-headed in Colaptes, but in 23 of our specimens there were two distinct bellies; in 9 this condition was unilateral and in 14 it was bilateral. In 35 of the 51 specimens, M. flexor perforatus digiti IV consisted of two heads. In 16 specimens the muscle had three heads, a condition only described in some procellariiform and galliform birds. This condition was bilateral in all 16 specimens. As possible explanations for these variants we consider atavism, adaptive variation, and random variation. We urge caution in characterizing picid species on the basis of these three muscles.
10.2307/1368841|We studied nest-site selection in Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) nesting on Cayo Raton and Cayo Molinos at Culebra, Puerto Rico to determine how nest sites differed from the available habitat. On both islands Roseate Tern nests differed from random points in being on flatter terrain and closer to other tern nests. On Molinos nests were significantly closer to the colony edge, farther from clearings, closer to taller vegetation, closer to overhanging rocks and had rounder rock platforms than the random points. On Raton, terns nested in three subcolonies that had similar distances to clearings, slopes of the nests, heights of the nearest vegetation, indices of visibility, and distances to nearest neighbors. Thus, regardless of the range of available habitats at these three sites, terns chose similar characteristics. Overall, tern nest sites on Molinos and Raton indicate a preference for flat places near clearings that offer about 25-40% cover within 0.5 m of the nest for shade or protection from inclement weather and concealment from predators, and were close to vegetation. On Molinos terns nested closer to vertical rocks, and on Raton they nested farther from vertical rocks than the random points. We attribute this difference to the presence of predatory land crabs (Geocarcinus ruricola) that hide under rocks on Raton. In comparing nest-site selection in the Puerto Rican colonies with that in New York, Roseate Terns in Puerto Rico nested closer to conspecifics, farther from vegetation which was shorter, with less cover around their nests, and with greater visibility indices than those nesting in New York. We attribute these differences to the kind and nature of predators present at the two sites, and the absence of Common Terns (S. hirundo) to provide early warning and antipredator defense in Puerto Rico.
10.1525/cond.2010.100019|In the southeastern U. S., longleaf pine savannas, important habitat for grassland birds, are subject to hurricanes and subsequent management. The intensity of tropical storms is predicted to increase with climate change, heightening the importance of understanding the effects of storm disturbance and salvage logging on species of concern such as Bachman's Sparrow (
1370641| We studied the inland flight behavior of 46 radio-marked Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) in 2000 and 2001 in central California to determine how the frequency of inland flights varied among individuals and over time. All breeding murrelets regularly flew inland (mean 82% of daily surveys), but we observed considerable variation in the inland flight behavior of non-nesters. Non-nesters that were physiologically in breeding condition (potential breeders) regularly flew inland (90% of individuals; mean 41% of daily surveys), but non-nesters that were not in breeding condition (nonbreeders) rarely flew inland (20% of individuals; mean 1% of daily surveys). The mean percentage of surveys on which individual murrelets flew inland increased from 20% in 2000 to 61% in 2001, which was partly due to an increase in the percentage of breeders from 11% in 2000 to 50% in 2001. The frequency of inland flights was greatest during the incubation and chick-provisioning stages (100% in both stages), and lowest during the pre- and postbreeding stages (70% and 78%, respectively). Although the mean percentage of flights increased dramatically between years, the regional population estimate from at-sea surveys increased only 28% from 496 to 637 individuals during the same period, indicating that monitoring techniques such as radar that count inland flights are more likely to reflect annual variation in breeding effort than changes in regional population size. Moreover, the inland flight behavior of potential breeders indicates that radar surveys will overestimate breeding population size, even though the lack of inland flights by nonbreeders indicates that radar surveys will underestimate regional population size. /// Estudiamos el comportamiento de vuelo tierra adentro de 46 individuos de Brachyramphus marmoratus marcados con radio transmisores durante el 2000 y 2001 en California central para determinar cmo la frecuencia de vuelos tierra adentro vari entre individuos y a lo largo del tiempo. Todos los individuos reproductivos de B. marmoratus volaron regularmente tierra adentro (media 82% de los muestreos diarios), pero observamos considerable variacin en el comportamiento de vuelo tierra adentro en los individuos que no nidificaban. Los individuos que no nidificaban pero que se encontraban fisiolgicamente en condicin reproductiva (reproductores potenciales) volaron regularmente tierra adentro (90% de los individuos; media 41% de los muestreos diarios), pero los individuos que no nidificaban y que no se encontraban en condicin reproductiva raramente volaron tierra adentro (20% de los individuos; media 1% de los muestreos diarios). El porcentaje medio de los muestreos en los cuales los individuos de B. marmoratus volaron tierra adentro increment de un 20% en el 2000 a un 61% en el 2001, lo que se debi parcialmente a un incremento en el porcentaje de individuos reproductivos de un 11% en el 2000 a un 50% en el 2001. La frecuencia de vuelos tierra adentro fue mayor durante las etapas de incubacin y suministro de alimento a los pichones (100% en ambas etapas), y fue menor durante las etapas pre- y post-reproductivas (70% y 78%, respectivamente). Aunque la proporcin media de vuelos increment dramticamente entre aos, la poblacin regional estimada a partir de muestreos en el mar increment slo 28% de 496 a 637 individuos durante el mismo perodo, indicando que las tcnicas de monitoreo como el radar, que cuentan los vuelos tierra adentro, tienen una mayor probabilidad de reflejar la variacin anual en el esfuerzo reproductivo que en los cambios de tamao poblacional regional. Ms an, el comportamiento de vuelo tierra adentro de los reproductores potenciales indica que los muestreos con radar sobrestimarn el tamao poblacional reproductivo, a pesar de que la falta de vuelos tierra adentro por parte de individuos no reproductivos indica que los muestreos con radar subestimarn el tamao poblacional regional. 
10.2307/1370481|We monitored the inter-wetland movements of 115 radio-tagged Pectoral Sandpipers (Calidris melanotos) at three migration stopovers in the Great Plains of North America during April and May from 1992 to 1995. While resident at a stopover, individuals were very localized in their movements. Over 40% of the birds made no inter-wetland movements, and over 90% of individuals moved less than 10 km from their original release site. Characteristics of wetlands where birds were released did not affect bird movements. However, the structure of the surrounding landscape explained up to 46% of variation in individual bird movements. As the distance between wetlands decreased, and the proportion of the landscape composed of wetlands increased, individual birds moved between wetlands more frequently and moved longer distances from their release site. These movement patterns indicate that a more connected landscape allows shorebirds to exploit more feeding sites with reduced searching costs; a result consistent with foraging theory. We estimate a degree of landscape connectivity at which a wetland complex functions as a single large wetland as measured by sandpiper feeding patterns. Our data provide support for the idea that complexes of small, closely spaced wetlands can be important migration stopovers and may have significant conservation value.
10.2307/1369210|Nest-holes are conventionally thought to enhance avian breeding success by the protection they offer against inclement weather and predation. Studies of birds nesting in natural cavities are rare, however, and much remains to be discerned about the reproductive costs and benefits of the hole-nesting habit. This study documents nesting mortality within a southern Illinois population of Carolina Chickadees (Parus carolinensis) breeding in natural cavities, and relates variation in mortality with variation in nest-hole structure and microclimate. Ambient-air vs. nest-hole temperature differentials were used as indices of nest-hole insulative capacity. Little variation in air-nest temperature differentials was found among nests and variation in nest-hole structure was not strongly correlated with variation in any of the indices of insulative variation. No total nest failures were attributable to ambient extremes. Predation was the greatest influence on nesting success, accounting for every case of total nest-loss (11/51 nests) and 78.7% of all egg and chick mortality. Nests excavated nearer the ground and in softer wood were preyed upon significantly more than higher or more solidly-housed nests. The availability of nest-holes appeared to decline at greater, thus safer, heights as the breeding season progressed. This apparent temporal decline in the availability of optimal nest-sites may reflect the subordinate status of chickadees among larger, more aggressive hole-nesting species. I suggest that chickadees may compensate for this low ranking status with their great nest-site selection plasticity as well as their ability to rapidly renest following nest destruction.
10.2307/1367260|Display Flights (DFs) of the Least Sandpiper (Calidris minutilla) are described. DFs were prolonged flights (averaging 1.2 min in Manitoba and 3.4 min in Nova Scotia), about 10-30 m in altitude, by unmated males over their future nesting areas. Displaying males alternated brief glides and bouts of rapid shallow wingbeats (Flutters) throughout DFs; the two phases averaged 0.84 and 0.72 s, respectively. Flutters averaged 26 (Yukon) to 37 per min (Nova Scotia). DFs ended in several kinds of descents, from slow parachuting to rapid stooping. Three main call types were associated with DFs. The main Display Flight Vocalization (DFV) was simple and stereotyped, and was emitted rhythmically throughout DFs. DFVs of 22 males averaged 390 ms long with intervals between them of 106 ms. DFVs thus occurred at a rate of about two per second, so were not synchronized with Flutters. Some features of DFs, such as their monotonous, repeated calls, are shared with many other open-country species with aerial displays (e.g., plovers, pipits). Nevertheless, DFVs are probably plesiomorphous within the Calidridinae. The adaptive significance and ancestral/derived status of these and other features of DFs are discussed.
40306133|The nomadic Sedge Wren (
10.2307/1368242|The density of Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis) in lowland St. Lucia and Martinique is about six individuals/km
40072414|In a community of 3 competing species, one species may also have a positive indirect effect on another by suppressing a third, shared competitor. We examine the potential for similar interactions among Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (
4096508| Stopover habitat relationships of landbirds are not well known and this constitutes a shortcoming in conservation plans for migratory birds. We compared migrant use of mature upland and riparian forests during spring in an urbanizing landscape within central Ohio. We surveyed stopover migrants along 250-m transects, and quantified both local- and landscape-level habitat characteristics (percent urban and forest land). During spring stopover, migrant abundance was 86% and 118% higher in upland forests for Nearctic-Neotropical transient (long-distance migrants) and temperate transients (short-distance migrants), respectively. Of 27 transient species, 22 species differed in their use of riparian and upland forests, and 20 of those were most abundant in upland forest (e.g., Blue-headed Vireo [Vireo solitarius], Least Flycatcher [Empidonax minimus], Swainson's Thrush [Catharus ustulatus], Nashville Warbler [Vermivora ruficapilla], Magnolia Warbler [Dendroica magnolia], Baybreasted Warbler [D. castanea], and Ovenbird [Seiurus aurocapillus]). Species richness was 58% and 75% higher in upland forests relative to riparian forests for Neotropical transient and temperate transient groups, respectively. Percent urbanization within 1 km was unrelated to abundance of Neotropical transients and temperate transients. Abundance of Neotropical transients and temperate transients was unrelated to percent forest cover within 1 km. Mature upland and riparian forests differed in that riparian sites had lower percentage of shrub cover, higher percentage of canopy cover, and different species composition of trees. Abundance of Neotropical transients was positively associated with mean canopy height; temperate transients were positively associated with mean number of trees >38 cm DBH and mean percentage of shrub cover. Our data indicate that mature upland forests were more heavily used by migrating landbirds than riparian forests within an urbanizing Midwestern landscape and may represent valuable habitats for the conservation of migratory landbirds within highly fragmented landscapes. /// Las relaciones de los hbitats que sirven como paradas migratorias para las aves terrestres no estn bien conocidas, y esto constituye una deficiencia en los planes de conservacin de las aves migratorias. Comparamos el uso de bosques maduros de llanuras y de bosques riparios por parte de aves migratorias durante la primavera en un paisaje que est siendo urbanizado en Ohio central. Registramos aves migratorias en las paradas de migracin a lo largo de transectos de 250 m y cuantificamos las caractersticas del hbitat tanto a nivel local como a nivel del paisaje (porcentaje de cobertura urbana y de bosque). Durante la parada migratoria de primavera, la abundancia de las aves migratorias en bosques de llanura fue un 86% mayor para las aves transitorias del Nertico-Neotrpico (aves migratorias de larga distancia) y un 118% mayor para las aves transitorias templadas (aves migratorias de corta distancia). De 27 especies transitorias, 22 especies se diferenciaron en su uso de bosque ripario y de llanura, y 20 de stas fueron ms abundantes en bosques de llanura (e.g., Vireo solitarius, Empidonax minimus, Catharus ustulatus, Vermivora ruficapilla, Dendroica magnolia, D. castanea, Seiurus aurocapillus). La riqueza de especies en bosques de llanura con relacin a el bosque ripario fue un 58% mayor para los grupos de aves transitorias Neotropicales y un 75% mayor para las aves transitorias templadas. El porcentaje de cobertura de urbanizacin en un radio de 1 km no se relacion con la abundancia de aves transitorias Neotropicales ni con las transitorias templadas. La abundancia de las aves transitorias Neotropicales y templadas no se relacion con la cobertura de bosque dentro de un radio de 1 km. Los bosques maduros de llanura y los bosques riparios se diferenciaron en que los sitios de bosque ripario tuvieron menor cobertura de arbustos, una mayor cobertura de dosel y una composicin de especies de rboles diferente. La abundancia de las aves transitorias Neotropicales se relacion positivamente con la altura promedio del dosel, mientras que las aves transitorias templadas se relacionaron positivamente con el nmero promedio de rboles con DAP >38 cm y con la cobertura promedio de arbustos. Nuestros datos indican que los bosques maduros de llanuras fueron utilizados con mayor intensidad por aves migratorias terrestres que los bosques riparios en un paisaje urbanizado del medio-oeste, y que estos bosques pueden representar un tipo de hbitat valioso para la conservacin de las aves migratorias terrestres en un paisaje altamente fragmentado. 
4500961| Many studies investigating edge effects on forest-nesting birds have focused on nest success. Fewer have examined edge effects on other components of fitness. Nestling growth rates have been positively correlated with food availability, which may differ at edges compared to the forest interior. However, previous work has not examined growth as a function of distance to edge and edge type. We investigated whether edge type, distance to edge, hatching date, brood size, brood parasitism, year, and site influenced growth rates of wings, tarsi, and mass of nestling Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) using regression tree analyses. Simultaneously, we examined edge effects on daily nest survival. We conducted our study in southwestern Michigan in 2002 and 2003. We located 175 nests and measured nestlings from 61 nests. Contrary to expectations, tarsal and mass growth rates were more rapid near edges than in the forest interior and tarsal growth rates were more rapid near gradual edge types than near abrupt edge types. Wing chord growth rates were more rapid in the forest interior than at edges. Mass and tarsal growth rates were more rapid later in the breeding season, when brood sizes were smaller. We found no effect of edge type or distance to edge on nest survival. The influence of edge on nestling growth rate but not nest survival suggests nestling growth rates may indicate edge-interior and edge type differences in habitat quality, even when high regional fragmentation levels overwhelm potential edge-interior differences in nest survival. /// Muchos de los estudios que investigan los efectos de borde en las aves que nidifican en bosques se han enfocado en el xito de los nidos. Menos estudios han examinado los efectos de borde en otros componentes de la adecuacin biolgica. Las tasas de crecimiento de los pichones han sido positivamente correlacionadas con la disponibilidad de alimentos, la cual puede diferir entre los bordes y el interior del bosque. Sin embargo, los trabajos previos no han examinado el crecimiento en funcin de la distancia al borde y del tipo de borde. Usando anlisis de rboles de regresin, investigamos si el tipo de borde, la distancia al borde, la fecha de eclosin, el tamao de la nidada, el parasitismo de la nidada, el ao y el sitio influenciaron las tasas de crecimiento de las alas, el tarso y el peso de los pichones de Hylocichla mustelina. Simultneamente, examinamos los efectos de borde en la supervivencia diaria de los nidos. Realizamos nuestro estudio en el sudoeste de Michigan en 2002 y 2003. Localizamos 175 nidos y medimos pichones provenientes de 61 nidos. Contrariamente a lo que esperbamos, las tasas de incremento del tarso y del peso fueron mayores cerca de los bordes que en el interior del bosque, y las tasas de incremento del tarso fueron mayores cerca de bordes de tipo gradual que cerca de bordes de tipo abrupto. Las tasas de incremento de la cuerda alar fueron mayores en el interior del bosque que en los bordes. Las tasas de incremento del peso y el tarso fueron mayores al final de la estacin reproductiva, cuando el tamao de la nidada fue ms pequeo. No encontramos un efecto del tipo de borde y de la distancia al borde en la supervivencia de los nidos. La influencia del borde en la tasa de crecimiento de los pichones, pero no en la supervivencia de los nidos, sugiere que la tasa de crecimiento de los pichones podra indicar diferencias en la calidad de hbitat entre borde e interior y entre tipos de borde, an cuando los altos niveles de fragmentacin regionales tengan efectos superiores a las diferencias potenciales en la supervivencia del nido entre borde e interior. 
10.2307/1368301|Dispersal resulting in gene flow strongly affects the evolution of genetic structure in populations. This report describes statistical estimators of dispersal parameters based on USFWS banding recovery records. Finite-area studies of avian species yield estimates of root-mean-square (RMS) dispersal along a transect of about 1 km per generation. In contrast, estimates of RMS dispersal for the Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) and Common Grackle (Quiscalus quiscula), based on USFWS banding recovery records, are 94.6 and 111.4 km per generation, respectively. Distributions for both species are extremely leptokurtic, and confidence intervals based on jackknife statistics are large because the estimators are sensitive to outlying values. Dispersal rates can also be estimated from gene frequency data. Although all three kinds of data are not available for any one avian species, genetic-based estimates for several species are consistent with our estimates for Red-winged Black-birds and Common Grackles in inferring that gene flow is generally high in North American birds--probably closer to 100 km than 1 km per generation. High gene flow also implies that where geographic variation is observed, such as plumage patterns across hybrid zones, selection plays a role in maintaining the pattern of geographic variation.
1370540| We report first-year survival rates of 49 captive-reared Hispaniolan Parrots (Amazona ventralis) released in Parque Nacional del Este, Dominican Republic. Our goal was to learn about factors affecting postrelease survival. Specifically, we tested if survival was related to movements and whether modifying prerelease protocols influenced survival rates. We also estimated survival in the aftermath of Hurricane Georges (22 September 1998). Twenty-four parrots, fitted with radio-transmitters, were released between 14 September and 12 December 1997. Twenty-five more were released between 29 June and 16 September 1998. First-year survival rates were 30% in 1997 and 29% in 1998. Survival probability was related to bird mobility. In contrast to birds released in 1997, none of the 25 parrots released in 1998 suffered early postrelease mortality (i.e., 3-5 days after release). Two adjustments to prerelease protocols (increased exercise and reduced blood sampling) made in 1998 may have contributed to differences in mobility and survival between years. The reduction of early postrelease mortality in 1998 was encouraging, as was the prospect for higher first-year survival (e.g., 30% to 65%). Only one death was attributed to the immediate impact of the hurricane. Loss of foraging resources was likely a major contributor to ensuing mortality. Birds increased their mobility, presumably in search of food. Survival rates dropped 23% in only eight weeks posthurricane. This study underscores the value of standardized prerelease protocols, and of estimating survival and testing for factors that might influence it. Inferences from such tests will provide the best basis to make adjustments to a release program. /// Determinamos la supervivencia de 49 individuos de Amazona ventralis criados en cautiverio y liberados en el Parque Nacional del Este, Repblica Dominicana. El proyecto se dise para aprender sobre los factores que pueden influenciar la supervivencia de las cotorras dominicanas. Especficamente, pusimos a prueba si la supervivencia estaba relacionada a movimientos y si modificaciones al protocolo de pre-liberacin influenciaron la supervivencia. Tambin estimamos la supervivencia de las cotorras despus del paso del huracn Georges el 22 de septiembre 1998. En 1997 se liberaron 24 cotorras con radio transmisores entre el 14 de septiembre y el 12 de diciembre. Otras 25 se liberaron entre el 29 de junio y el 16 de septiembre de 1998. La estimacin de la supervivencia en 1997 fue de un 30% y en 1998 de un 29%. La probabilidad de supervivencia estuvo relacionada a la movilidad del ave. En comparacin con las cotorras liberadas en 1997, ninguna de las cotorras liberadas en 1998 muri durante los primeros 3-5 dias post-liberacin. Dos ajustes a los protocolos de pre-liberacin en 1998 contribuyeron probablamente a las diferencias en movilidad y supervivencia entre aos. Este resultado fue alentador, as como el prospecto de alcanzar tasas ms altas de supervivencia (e.g., 30% a 65%). La muerte de slo una cotorra se atribuye al impacto directo del huracn. La prdida de recursos alimenticios probablemente contribuy fuertemente a la mortandad subsiguiente. Las cotorras exhibieron mayor movilidad, presumiblemente en bsqueda de frutos. La tasa de supervivencia disminuy un 23% en solo ocho semanas despus del huracn. Este estudio enfatiza el valor de protocolos de preliberacin estandarizados y de estimaciones de tasas de supervivencia que ponen a prueba factores que la puedan influenciar. Las inferencias de dichas pruebas proveern un mejor fundamento para ajustar los programas de liberacin. 
10.2307/1368938|Within a week of fledging, juvenile Painted Buntings, Passerina ciris, undergo a previously unrecognized first prebasic molt that includes most to all body plumage except greater primary and greater secondary coverts. This molt occurs from early June to early October, usually on the breeding ground. The resulting first basic plumage is similar to juvenal plumage, but is more adult female-like in color in both sexes. First-year, but not adult, Painted Buntings subsequently undergo a presupplemental molt during which the outer four or five primaries, inner four to six secondaries, all remiges, and all body plumage except some to all greater primary coverts typically are replaced. The resulting supplemental plumage is identical in both sexes and is more adult female-like in color than the previous first basic plumage. Presupplemental molt usually occurs between early September and early November. Most (90%) Painted Buntings along the eastern coast of the United States undergo this molt on the breeding ground prior to fall migration; whereas, in the western United States, most (60%) molt in exclusively migratory areas of the desert southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. These desert locations exhibit a large increase in plant and insect life in response to "monsoon" rains that occur predictably in these areas in late summer and fall. Selection may have favored evolution of molt-migration strategies in Painted Buntings in the western United States as a mechanism to allow them to molt in areas with greater food resources than exist at the same time of year on their breeding or wintering ground. Painted Buntings are one of only six passerines in which molt-migration has been documented. All age and sex classes undergo a partial prealternate molt that was described previously (Fisk 1974) but has been overlooked by all subsequent investigators. This molt usually occurs on the wintering ground, and is typically limited to the head, breast, and belly. Most plumage grown by subadult males during first prealternate molt is adult female-like in color. This is the only passerine known in which sexually mature subadult males grow adult female-like rather than adult male-like plumage during prealternate molt. Juvenal plumage has poor structural integrity compared to subsequent plumages. Its structure facilitates heat transfer to the young by brooding females, but is poorly adapted to protecting juveniles from adverse effects of abiotic factors. Therefore, selection may have favored replacement of juvenal plumage with a structurally stronger first basic plumage as soon as possible after fledging. First-year males and females may undergo presupplemental molt to prevent being identified as first-year birds by adult females and being dominated by them (and possibly by adult males as well if adult males do not usually dominate adult females), or to reduce predation on themselves. That no subadult males acquire a winter plumage intermediate in color between that of adult males and adult females in winter is the first empirical support for Rohwer et al.'s (1980) model which indicates that selection should favor subadult males with plumages that are completely adult female-like or adult male-like more than plumages that are intermediate between adult males and adult females. These results also support the winter female mimicry hypothesis (Brown and Brown 1988), are consistent with the winter cryptic hypothesis (Rohwer and Butcher 1988), and are inconsistent with the winter status signaling hypothesis (Rohwer 1975, 1982). Because subadult males grow plumage during first prealternate molt that is adult female-like in color, this strongly suggests that the resulting plumage functions during their first potential breeding season to mimic females. This supports the summer female mimicry hypothesis (Rohwer et al. 1980), but is inconsistent with the summer cryptic (Selander 1965, 1972), summer status signaling (Lyon and Montgomerie 1986, Montgomerie and Lyon 1986) and juvenile mimicry hypotheses (Lawton and Lawton 1986, Foster 1987). This also supports Rohwer et al.'s (1980) model discussed above. Adult males exhibit a greater rate of feather replacement during prealternate molt than any other age or sex class. This suggests that the extent of this molt is less constrained in adult males than other age and sex classes, thus weakly supporting the molt constraints hypothesis (Rohwer and Butcher 1988). Because subadult males exhibit only a limited prealternate molt, their summer plumage may not be functionally independent of their winter plumage. Thus, it is not possible to conclusively determine whether subadult male plumages are adaptive during winter, summer, or both. Because presupplemental body molt is essentially complete, this clearly indicates that failure of subadult males to obtain fully adult male-like supplemental plumage can not be due to energetic constraints.
10.2307/1368811|From July 1986 to January 1989 standardized call and sight counts were conducted to examine the distribution and relative abundance patterns of Plain Pigeons (Columba inornata), White-crowned Pigeons (C. leucocephala), Scaly-naped Pigeons (C. squamosa), Zenaida Doves (Zenaida aurita), White-winged Doves (Z. asiatica), Mourning Doves (Z. macroura), Common Ground-Doves (Columbina passerina), Ruddy Quail-Doves (Geotrygon montana), Key West Quali-Doves (G. chrysia), and Bridled Quail-Doves (G. mystacea) during the different seasons of the year in the dry, moist and wet zones of Puerto Rico. The relative abundance of all columbids peaked during the spring-summer period (March-August) in the life zones. The relative abundance of Zenaida Doves and Common Ground-Doves peaked during the spring-summer, but a second noticeable peak occurred during the fall (September-November) in the dry zone. The seasonal patterns of relative abundance were detectable at local as well as at regional scales of sampling, regardless of the observer involved and the counting technique applied. The detected patterns are not considered to be either the result of sampling error or of statistical artifacts. The seasonal patterns of relative abundance in the three major life zones probably represent the most general and repeatable aspect of the population dynamics of columbids in the island. Two components of the environment of columbids are considered of principal importance in determining their seasonal relative abundance in the life zones: (1) rainfall in the dry zone, and (2) fruiting phenology of key tree species in the moist and wet zones.
10.2307/1370319|I investigated geographic variation in a parrot vocalization to obtain an understanding of cultural population differentiation and exchange between hybridizing taxa. The flight calls of Ringneck Parrots (Barnardius zonarius) were tape recorded in Western Australia within and outside the zone of overlap and hybridization between the Port Lincoln (B. z. zonarius) and Twenty-eight (B. z. semitorquatus) subspecies. Measured variables distinguished the Twenty-eight call from those in the overlap populations. Although birds in typical Twenty-eight plumage were present in the overlap zone, no Twenty-eight flight calls were found, suggesting convergence by immigrants. Populations within the hybrid zone also were acoustically differentiated as dialects associated with roosting areas. Observations on the social behavior of the birds indicated that this call functions in coordination of movements of the mated pair. Roost-specific dialects might aid pairs in finding each other in the event of separation during the day's foraging activity.
10.2307/1368397|Genetic analysis using isoelectric focusing of blood proteins indicated that Common Terns, Sterna hirundo, from four colonies in Minnesota and Wisconsin had an observed average heterozygosity (H<sub>o</sub>) of 0.044 and had 12 polymorphic loci of the 34 loci examined (P = 0.353). These values suggest that Common Terns of Minnesota and Wisconsin have approximately average levels of genetic variation and diversity for avian species. Interpopulational F<sub>st</sub> values, four genetic distance estimates and an overall F<sub>st</sub> value of 0.0022 revealed that the four colonies (subpopulations) were not genetically differentiated. Indirect estimates of gene flow, using the method of conditional average allelic frequency, indicated high levels of gene flow. Using the method of private alleles (alleles found in only one subpopulation), the estimated number of immigrants per generation (Nm) into each subpopulation ranged from seven to 16, again demonstrating significant levels of movement of terns among colonies. Direct estimates of dispersal from band recovery data corroborated these findings. By extending these results, I suggest that other Common Tern colonies in North America have at least as much gene flow among regional breeding populations as do these disjunct inland colonies.
10.2307/1368884|Wild Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens) at the McConnell River, Northwest Territories, Canada, grew rapidly for their size, requiring only 30 days to grow from 10 to 90% of asymptotic weight (1,475 g). Fledging occurred at about 72% of adult weight. Culmen and tarsus were close to adult size at fledging, but primaries were only 65% grown. Fat and water indices resembled those of altricial birds. Captive geese differed in growth patterns from wild birds, particularly in feather and tarsal growth and in water index, but showed the same pattern of caloric density. Snow Geese and other anatids grow more rapidly than other precocial species and do not appear to support Ricklefs' hypothesis concerning the inverse relationship between growth rate and proportion of functionally mature tissue at hatch.
10.2307/1370201|The incubation period of Long-tailed Tits Aegithalos caudatus is highly variable, ranging from 14 to 21 days. Females alone incubate the eggs, but males provide females with some food during the incubation period, although females must also forage for themselves. Our aim was to investigate whether male provisioning of incubating females influenced female incubation behavior and the length of the incubation period. Provisioning rates varied between males, and female nest attentiveness was negatively related to short-term variation in the rate at which their partner fed them. However, the provisioning rate of individual males also varied significantly through time, and there was no significant effect of male care on female incubation across the whole incubation period. There was no evidence that variation in the behavior of either males or females influenced the length of the incubation period.
4501006| The recent divergence of Orchard (Icterus spurius spurius) and Fuertes's Orioles (I. s. fuertesi) makes them an ideal system for investigating species boundaries. Orchard and Fuertes's Orioles differ in several respects. They have distinct breeding ranges-Fuertes's Orioles breed in eastern coastal Mexico, whereas Orchard Orioles breed throughout eastern and central North America-and differ in plumage coloration, with adult male Orchard Orioles appearing "chestnut" and Fuertes's Orioles "ochre." However, no detailed quantitative color analyses have been conducted. To characterize these differences we quantitatively measured plumage color using reflectance spectrometry. The colored plumages of adult male Orchard and Fuertes's Orioles have unique spectral characteristics, with no color overlap between them. Combined with life history differences and previous molecular studies, these findings support the classification of Orchard and Fuertes's Orioles as separate species. Additionally, this study demonstrates the utility of quantitative color measurement as a tool for examining species boundaries. /// La reciente divergencia de Icterus spurius spurius e I. s. fuertesi hace de ellos un sistema ideal para investigar los lmites de las especies, ya que ambos taxones difieren en varios aspectos. Por un lado, tienen diferentes reas de reproduccin. I. s. fuertesi se reproduce en la costa este mexicana del Golfo de Mxico (Tamaulipas a Veracruz), mientras que I. s. spurius se reproduce por casi todo el este y centro de Norteamrica. Tambin difieren en la coloracin del plumaje. Los machos adultos de I. s. spurius generalmente presentan color castao, mientras que los machos de I. s. fuertesi son ocres. Sin embargo, no se haban realizado anlisis cuantitativos de la coloracin. Para caracterizar estas diferencias, usamos espectrometra de reflectancia para medir cuantitativamente el color del plumaje. Encontramos que los plumajes coloreados de los machos adultos de I. s. spurius e I. s. fuertesi tienen caractersticas de espectro propias, sin superposicin de color entre los taxones. En conjunto con las diferencias en la historia de vida y en los estudios moleculares previos, estas conclusiones apoyan la clasificacin de I. spurius e I. fuertesi como especies distintas. Adems, esta investigacin demuestra la utilidad de las medidas cuantitativas del color como una herramienta para examinar las fronteras de las especies. 
10.2307/3247728|Male Satin Bowerbirds court females with complex displays that include stick structures built adjacent to a decorated display court. Here we report circulating levels of testosterone and corticosterone in a natural population of Satin Bowerbirds and their relation to the development of complex mating displays. We found that (1) males without bowers had lower levels of testosterone than bower holders, (2) testosterone, but not corticosterone, levels were significantly correlated with male mating success, and (3) levels of testosterone, but not corticosterone, were consistently correlated with the quality of several important display characters that have been shown to be important in affecting male mating success. These results suggest that testosterone level is an important component of male mating success. We consider reasons why variation in testosterone levels persists among mature male bowerbirds given its potential to affect male mating success.
10.2307/1367336| The Yellow-billed Magpie (Pica nuttalli) and Black-billed Magpie (P. pica) are closely related and morphologically similar species. Yet because of their allopatric distributions, they experience different climatic regimes. We sought evidence of climatic adaptation in the thermoregulatory responses of these species by measuring their body temperature, oxygen consumption, and evaporative water loss at stable air temperatures between -10 and 40C. At temperatures below the thermoneutral zone (TNZ), both species had similar metabolic rates, thermal conductances, and body temperatures. Within the TNZ, metabolism of Black-billed Magpies averaged 7.52 mW g<sup>-1</sup>, which is 22% lower than that of Yellow-billed Magpies and 18% lower than that predicted allometrically for a 159-g passerine. Above the TNZ, Yellow-billed Magpies lost significantly more heat by nonevaporative pathways, became more hyperthermic, exhibited a smaller increase in oxygen consumption with increasing temperature, and were more heat tolerant than their congeners. Our data suggest that climate acts directly to restrict Black-billed Magpies to the Cold Type Steppe Dry Climate, rather than ecologically through a secondary effect on food availability. 
10.2307/1370268| I examined the species composition, frequency, distance offshore, and duration of multispecies seabird feeding flocks in the Galpagos Islands, Ecuador. Flocks were comprised of Galpagos Penguins (Spheniscus mendiculus), Flightless Cormorants (Campsohaelius [Nannopterum] harrisi), Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis), Brown Noddies (Anous stolidus), Blue-footed (Sula nebouxii) and Masked Boobies (Sula dactylatra), Magnificent Frigatebirds (Fregata magnificens), and Audubon Shearwaters (Puffinus Iherminieri). Pursuit-divers, such as Galpagos Penguins and Flightless Cormorants, increase the longevity of flocks. Species such as boobies may tend to dissipate flocks. This study provides field evidence that the presence of pursuit-diving seabirds has a positive effect on the duration of feeding flocks and that the mechanisms that keep prey close to the surface near shore may differ from those in the open ocean. 
1370603| Barred Owls (Strix varia) have expanded their range into the Pacific Northwest, and anecdotal evidence suggests that they may be displacing the federally threatened Northern Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis caurina). Our objectives were to describe the current status of Barred Owls in Oregon and compare occupancy of Spotted Owls in historic Spotted Owl territories before and after Barred Owls were first detected in those territories. Between 1974 and 1998, we estimated that 706 different Barred Owl territories were located in Oregon. From 1989-1998 an average of 60 new Barred Owl territories were located in Oregon each year. In Spotted Owl demographic study areas in Oregon and Washington, Barred Owl detections increased at Spotted Owl territories from 1987-1999. Occupancy of Spotted Owl territories declined after Barred Owls were detected within 0.80 km of the territory center. When Barred Owls were detected 0.81-2.40 km from Spotted Owl territory centers, occupancy of Spotted Owls was only marginally less than at territories without Barred Owls. This suggests that the frequency and intensity of interactions between the two species is negatively associated with distance between them. Our results suggest that land managers and regulatory agencies should regard Barred Owls as a threat to Spotted Owls, particularly if Barred Owls continue to increase in number as they have during the past 25 years. /// Desde su expansin hacia el Pacfico Noroeste, existe evidencia anecdtica de que Strix varia podra estar desplazando a S. occidentalis caurina. Nuestros objetivos fueron describir el estatus actual de S. varia en Oregon y comparar la ocurrencia de S. occidentalis caurina en sus territorios histricos antes y despus de que S. varia se detect por primera vez en dichos territorios. Entre 1974 y 1998, estimamos que se confirmaron 706 territorios diferentes de S. varia en Oregon. Entre 1989 y 1998, se localizaron en promedio 60 nuevos territorios de S. varia anualmente. En reas con estudios demogrficos de S. occidentalis caurina en Oregon y Washington, las detecciones de S. varia en territorios de S. occidentalis caurina se incrementaron entre 1987 y 1999. En comparacin con territorios sin S. varia, la ocupacin de territorios de S. occidentalis caurina disminuy luego de que se detectaron individuos de S. varia a menos de 0.80 km del centro del territorio. Cuando se detectaron individuos de S. varia entre 0.81 y 2.40 km del centro de los territorios, la ocupacin de stos fue slo marginalmente menor que en territorios sin S. varia. Esto sugiere que la frecuencia e intensidad de la interaccin entre las dos especies est asociada con la distancia entre ellas. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las autoridades ambientales y de regulacin deben considerar a S. varia como una amenaza para S. occidentalis caurina, particularmente si los nmeros de S. varia se siguen incrementando como en los ltimos 25 aos. 
40072367|Ectoparasites are a common component of seabird colonies and are generally considered to have a negative impact on their hosts. Nest parasites such as the soft tick
90008459|The national network of weather surveillance radars (WSR-88D) detects flying birds and is a useful remote-sensing tool for ornithological study. We used data collected during fall 2008 and 2009 by 16 WSR-88D radars in the northeastern U.S. to quantify the spatial distribution of landbirds during migratory stopover. We geo-referenced estimates based on radar reflectivity, of the density of migrants aloft at their abrupt evening exodus from daytime stopover sites, to the approximate locations from which they emerged. We classified bird stopover use by the magnitude and variation of radar reflectivity across nights; areas were considered important stopover sites for conservation if bird density was consistently high. We developed statistical models that predict potentially important stopover sites across the region, based on land cover, ground elevation, and geographic location. Large areas of regionally important stopover sites were located along the coastlines of Long Island Sound, throughout the Delmarva Peninsula, in areas surrounding Baltimore and Washington, along the western edge of the Adirondack Mountains, and within the Appalachian Mountains of southwestern Virginia and West Virginia. Locally important stopover sites generally were associated with deciduous forests embedded within landscapes dominated by developed or agricultural lands, or near the shores of major water bodies. Preserving or enhancing patches of natural habitat, particularly deciduous forests, in developed or agricultural landscapes and along major coastlines could be a priority for conservation plans addressing the stopover requirements of migratory landbirds in the northeastern U.S. Our maps of important stopover sites can be used to focus conservation efforts and can serve as a sampling frame for fieldwork to validate radar observations or for ecological studies of landbirds on migratory stopover.
1370379| We investigated habitat preferences for five pinyon-juniper specialists during the 1998 and 1999 breeding seasons in Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) woodlands of southwestern Wyoming. We compared avian use and availability of vegetation features using univariate and multivariate analysis to detect selection for vegetative features of pinyon-juniper specialists near the northeastern range boundary of pinyon-juniper habitat on the Colorado Plateau. Gray Flycatchers (Empidonax wrightii), Juniper Titmice (Baeolophus griseus), and Bewick's Wrens (Thryomanes bewickii) preferred woodlands with high overstory juniper cover. The Juniper Titmouse was associated with senescent trees, Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea) with rock outcrops and shrubs in the family Rosaceae, and Black-throated Gray Warbler (Dendroica nigrescens) with pinyon pine (Pinus edulis). We suggest the geographic distribution of four of five pinyon-juniper specialists is limited by the occurrence of pinyon pine in semiarid woodlands on the northeastern Colorado Plateau. The geographic limit for Blue-gray Gnatcatchers in this region may correspond to the presence of mountain mahogany in the woodland understory. The conservation of pinyon-juniper specialists in southwestern Wyoming will benefit from the maintenance of successional processes, particularly those that perpetuate mature woodlands with a pinyon pine component. /// Durante la estacin reproductiva de 1998 y 1999 investigamos las preferencias de hbitat de cinco especialistas de Pinus-Juniperus en bosques de Juniperus osteosperma en el sudoeste de Wyoming. Determinamos cuales son las caractersticas de la vegetacin seleccionadas por los especialistas de Pinus-Juniperus comparando el uso por parte de las aves con la disponibilidad de dichas caractersticas; empleamos para ello anlisis uni y multivariados. Realizamos el trabajo cerca del lmite noreste de la distribucin de Pinus-Juniperus en el Altiplano de Colorado. Empidonax wrightii, Baeolophus griseus, y Thryomanes bewickii prefirieron bosques con una elevada cobertura de Juniperus en el estrato superior. B. griseus se encontr asociado con rboles moribundos, Polioptila caerulea con sectores rocosos y arbustos de la Familia Rosaceae, y Dendroica nigrescens con Pinus edulis. Sugerimos que la distribucin geogrfica de cuatro de los cinco especialistas de Pinus-Juniperus est limitada por la presencia de P. edulis en los bosques semiaridos del noreste del Altiplano de Colorado. En esta regin, el lmite geogrfico de P. caerulea se relacionara con la presencia de caoba de montaa (mountain mahogany) en el sotobosque. La conservacin de los especialistas de Pinus-Juniperus en el sudoeste de Wyoming se ver beneficiada por el mantenimiento de los procesos sucesionales, particularmente de aquellos que mantienen bosques maduros que incluyen la presencia de P. edulis. 
10.2307/1368247|Traditional methods to determine total body fat are undesirable under many circumstances because they require sacrificing individual birds. Walsberg (1988) recently introduced the total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) method for total body fat to ecological studies. In this paper we expand on Walsberg's (1988) seminal paper and show that: (1) TOBEC is accurate under a narrow array of body masses, and is therefore appropriate for intraspecific studies; (2) dead birds exhibit significantly different TOBEC than live birds; and (3) the use of metal bands does not affect TOBEC measurements. We conclude that TOBEC provides an accurate estimate of total body fat, that it is preferable to traditional methods because it does not require sacrificing the bird, measurements can be taken quickly in the field, and (most importantly to field ornithologists) body fat can now be tracked through time for individual, free-living birds.
10.2307/1370240|Videotapes of migrant Semipalmated Sandpipers foraging in the upper Bay of Fundy were analyzed to test for foraging behaviors sensitive to prey density. Over a range of prey densities, both the number of steps sec
10.2307/1369710|Several recent studies of seabirds have found high levels of nonbreeding by experienced adults. By contrast, just 8.9% (range 4-14%) of experienced Great Skuas (Catharacta skua) on Foula, Shetland Islands, deferred breeding between 1989-1996. For Parasitic Jaegers (Stercorarius parasiticus), a corresponding value of 5.5% (range 3-8%) was found between 1993-1994. Only 3% of the territorial pairs of Parasitic Jaegers, including new recruits, failed to lay eggs. Higher incidence of nonbreeding in Great Skuas was recorded in years when fledging production was low. Loss of mate due to death or divorce was the main direct cause of nonbreeding. Loss of territory also was important for male birds. In Great Skuas, more males missed a breeding season than females, but the same did not apply to Parasitic Jaegers. Very young and very old Great Skuas were more likely to defer breeding than mid-aged birds. Evidence is presented that the decline in breeding frequency of old birds was due to senescence as opposed to increased frequency of mate-changes resulting from a high mortality of old partners.
10.2307/1368059|We quantified cache-site selection by White-breasted Nuthatches (Sitta carolinensis), Tufted Titmice (Parus bicolor), and Black-capped (P. atricapillus) and Carolina (P. carolinensis) chickadees storing sunflower seeds in four deciduous woodlands during winter, 1983-1988. All species exhibited significant interpopulational variation in caching ecology. This may be related to, among other factors, differences in the floristic and physiognomic characteristics of vegetation on each site. Nuthatches, titmice, and chickadees each demonstrated a distinct pattern of seed storage that, in general, corresponded with published reports of foraging ecology. Those differences did not appear to be related to the need for protection of stored food from snow and ice cover, but rather for concealment from potential cache robbers. In protecting those cache sites, titmice and chickadees relied mainly upon inaccessibility by placing seeds on small branches and twigs, frequently in the outer portion of tree canopies. Nuthatches, on the other hand, used both difficult-to-reach (far under bark or deep in furrows) and cryptic (covered with bark or other material) locations to protect stored seeds. Disparity between parids and the nuthatch in caching ecology may be due to morphological differences and by the number of cache robbers likely to encounter each species' cache sites.
10.2307/1370323|I documented brood and duckling survival, the number of surviving ducklings, and brood movements of Redheads, and examined the association between these variables and female age and body mass. Redhead brood success was 55% and duckling daily survival rates averaged 0.868. Female body mass, but not age, was related to brood and duckling survival and the number of surviving ducklings. Successful females were heavier and produced more ducklings. All brood-movement measures differed between successful and unsuccessful females, however, the distance of the first move between wetlands accounted for the most variability in brood success. Increased body mass, but not age, was associated with longer first brood movements.
1370393| This paper summarizes the breeding biology, social organization, and mating system of the Striated Grasswren (Amytornis striatus), a member of one of the least-known genera of Australian passerines, the grasswrens. I studied 18 color-banded groups and 14 nests in South Australia for one breeding season in 1996. Mean territory size was 3.0 ha, and territories consisted of sandy dunes dominated by spinifex (Triodea irritans). This apparent dependency on mature spinifex, coupled with poor dispersal ability, suggests that the Striated Grasswren is particularly susceptible to habitat destruction. Most groups consisted of socially monogamous pairs, mean group size was 2.1 adults, and the adult sex ratio was 0.95 (males:females). The average clutch size was 2.2  0.4 eggs and an average of 1.1  1.1 young fledged per nesting effort. A male and a female provided similar amounts of parental care at a single nest. Cloacal protuberance size and amount of sperm collected did not suggest intense sperm competition among males. /// Este trabajo resume la biologa reproductiva, organizacin social, y sistema de apareamiento de Amytornis striatus, miembro de uno de los gneros menos conocidos de paserinos de Australia. Durante la estacin reproductiva de 1996 estudi, en el sur de Australia, 18 grupos identificados con bandas de colores y 14 nidos. El tamao promedio de los territorios fue 3.0 ha, siendo los territorios dunas arenosos dominadas por Triodea irritans. Esta aparente dependencia de sectores maduros de T. irritans, en combinacin con una limitada capacidad de dispersin, hacen que A. striatus sea particularmente sensible a la destruccin del habitat. La mayora de los grupos sociales fueron parejas mongamas; el tamao promedio del grupo fue 2.1 adultos, y el cociente de sexos en adultos fue 0.95 (machos:hembras). El tamao medio de nidada fue 2.2  0.4 huevos, y un promedio de 1.1  1.1 juveniles por intento de nidificacin abandon exitosamente el nido. Un macho y una hembra proporcionaron esfuerzos similares de cuidado parental en un nico nido. El tamao de la protuberancia cloacal y la cantidad de esperma colectados no sugirieron que exista intensa competencia espermtica entre machos. 
10.2307/1369895|Mixed-species foraging flocks in northeastern Mexico are large, diverse, and include Neotropical migrant and resident species. I characterized the species composition and social organization of mixed-species flocks in four habitats of the El Cielo Biosphere Reserve during the winters of 1993-1995. Thirty-seven percent of all species found in the Reserve participated in mixed-species flocks, including 16 migrant species. Flocks in the dry pine-oak forest had more migrant individuals than flocks in the humid oak-pine/cloud forest or tropical semi-deciduous forest, but flocks in the tropical semi-deciduous forest had more migrant species than resident species. Migrant species rarely have been reported as nuclear species that attract other species to the flock and maintain flock cohesion, yet both Ruby-crowned Kinglet (Regulus calendula) in the dry pine-oak forest, and Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea) in the tropical semi-deciduous forest, are migrant species that behaved as nuclear flock species. Bridled Titmouse (Parus wollweberi) and Crescent-chested Warbler (Vermivora superciliosa), Mexican resident species, were nuclear species in the dry pine-oak forest and the humid oak-pine/cloud forest, respectively. I found that Ruby-crowned Kinglet and Crescent-chested Warbler were follower species (species that occurred regularly in flocks but did not behave as nuclear species) in habitats where they were not nuclear species, indicating that the social role of a species within a flock may depend on habitat, resource availability, species density, or the other species present in the mixed-species flock.
10.2307/1368996|To test whether or not the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) is a determinate or indeterminate layer, 16 experimental nest sites were used following a removal protocol suggested by Haywood (pers. comm.). In six of the 16 experimental nests the females laid in an indeterminate manner, laying 8-18 eggs at daily intervals, or with breaks of one or two days. Analysis of the egg contents showed that fresh mass and dry masses of yolk, albumen and shell tended to increase with position in the laying sequence, with fresh mass, dry albumen mass and total dry mass of eggs 2-6 being significantly less than those of the supernumerary eggs, eggs 7+. Female condition was unaffected by the laying of supernormal-sized clutches. The implications of these results for the proximate determination of clutch size in the House Sparrow were discussed, including a proposed mechanism for clutch size determination in the species.
1370682| I genotyped lek-mating Long-tailed Manakins (Chiroxiphia linearis) at Monteverde and Santa Rosa, Costa Rica, 115 km apart. Cavalli-Sforza distance was 0.04, D
1370523| The Green-rumped Parrotlet (Forpus passerinus) feeds almost exclusively on seeds of Croton hirtus, (Euphorbiaceae) during reproduction. Croton hirtus seeds are low in protein and rich in carbohydrates, particularly starch. We studied the bacterial composition of the crop of the Green-rumped Parrotlet to explore if microbial activity could enhance digestion by this parrotlet. Crop contents were cultured anaerobically and counted by agar dilution. Isolated bacterial strains were identified by membrane fatty acids analysis using gas chromatography. Green-rumped Parrotlet crops contained from 10
10.2307/1368737| We studied the breeding biology of Palila (Loxioides bailleui) at 85 nests from 20 April to 14 September 1988. Eggs were laid over a 139-day period and incubation averaged 16.6 days. The female incubated 85.2% of daylight hours and males fed incubating females. Modal clutch size was 2 (x = 2.0) and an average of 1.4 nestlings fledged per successful nest. Nestlings were in the nest an average of 25.3 days. Both females and males fed nestlings with the rate of feeding decreasing as the nestlings grew older. Palila nesting success was 25%, reduced primarily by hatching failure and depredation of nestlings. Hatching failure, due to inviable eggs or desertion, occurred in 41% of nests with eggs (55% of nest mortality). Egg depredation was rare (5% of nest mortality). Inbreeding and low food availability are postulated as the major causes for poor hatching success. Twenty-one percent of nests with nestlings were depredated (35% of nest mortality). Brood reduction was observed in 47% of nests with two nestlings. Nest success decreased significantly late in the breeding season, from 46.4% to 12.8%. During this same period, the abundance of mamane (Sophora chrysophylla) pods, the Palila's primary food, also decreased significantly. Stepwise discriminant analysis correctly classified the fate of 79% of nests using egg-laying date, nest-tree area, and distance between the nest tree and adjacent trees as variables. 
40306129|Flee-inducing alarm calls often communicate information about the type of predator and the danger associated with it. Less is known about how approach-inducing mob calls encode this information. We studied the mob calls of the American Crow to determine whether these calls convey information about the predator type or the level of danger by presenting a model owl (representing an avian predator) and raccoon (representing a mammalian predator). We found that crows emit the same types of vocalizations in response to both of these predator classes. Our results, however, suggest that calls with a longer duration, higher rate, and shorter interval between caws reflect a higher degree of danger. We also found significant differences in call structure from trial to trial, possibly reflecting variations in call structure among individuals or groups. The ability to encode specific information about urgency and individual or group identity while mobbing may be particularly important for efficient coordination of group activities in speciessuch as the American Crowthat live in stable social groups.
10.2307/1368722|Although long studied, determinate and indeterminate laying patterns in birds have not been related to avian ecology. House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) often experience egg removal by potential nest usurpers, while European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) commonly experience both egg removal and egg addition by conspecific brood parasites. We predicted that House Wrens should respond to egg removal by laying extra eggs but should not respond to egg addition, while European Starlings should both increase clutch size in response to removal and decrease clutch size in response to addition of eggs. We manipulated clutch size at 70 House Wren and 49 European Starling nests by adding or removing two eggs during the laying period. In early wren clutches, birds altered clutch size as predicted: wrens with nests from which eggs were removed had larger clutches than did control birds, while birds with nests to which eggs were added had clutches of the same size as control birds. However, in late clutches wrens did not respond to either egg removal or addition. Starlings showed no significant response to either egg removal or addition in spite of high rates of conspecific egg removal and brood parasitism within the study population.
10.2307/1367445|Termination of breeding, the development of photorefractoriness, subsequent postnuptial molt, and fat deposition precede autumnal migration in White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys). The timing of these post-reproductive functions differs from that of analogous vernal functions because they are neither synchronous within the population nor uniformly coincident with environmental stimuli. We hypothesize that the expressions of autumnal functions are internally coupled and that they result from a separate process initiated by the increasing vernal daylength. Our data concerning the effect of various photoregimes on testicular regression, postnuptial molt and fat deposition of Z. l. gambelii are consistent with the following generalizations: (1) on daylengths that exceed 16 h these processes begin after 40-60 days of photostimulation, inversely related to daylength; (2) transfer of photostimulated (20L 4D) males to an intermediate daylength of 12 h near the end of the testicular growth phase blocks the expression of autumnal functions, although their expression is not blocked if the birds are photorefractory when transferred; (3) males transferred from 12L 12D to 20L 4D in various stages of testicular development begin postnuptial molt after a fixed number of days regardless of the stage of testicular development at the time of transfer; (4) rates of postnuptial molt and fat deposition are inversely related to the daylength to which the birds are exposed when these functions occur, which may explain the acceleration of preparation for autumnal migration in late-starting individuals. Therefore, the systems that control autumnal processes appear not only to be independent of those that regulate analogous vernal processes, but also appear to rely more on internal coupling to integrate these functions than do the latter.
10.2307/1370267|Playas in the Southern High Plains (SHP) are important for migrant shorebirds, but the functional role of playas to migrant shorebirds is not clearly understood. We conducted diurnal time-activity budgets on American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana), Long-billed Dowitchers (Limnodromus scolopaceus), Least Sandpipers (Calidris minutilla), and Western Sandpipers (C. mauri) in spring and fall 1993 and 1994 in 69 playas on the SHP of Texas. During both seasons, Least and Western Sandpipers spent 70-80% of their time feeding. Long-billed Dowitchers spent 77% of their time feeding in spring, but spent more time sleeping and less feeding in fall. American Avocets spent 41-50% of their time feeding and 34-40% of their time sleeping during each season. All four species spent minimal time engaged in locomotion, body maintenance, alert, and aggressive behaviors. American Avocets and Long-billed Dowitchers fed most during the midday and late periods and slept most during the early period. Least Sandpipers fed most during the early period, whereas feeding activities of Western Sandpipers remained 70-80% throughout the day. Each of these species use different behavioral strategies in response to such factors as migration distances, energetic needs, differential predation, nocturnal foraging, and diet. Playas appear to serve as important intermediate stopover sites for shorebirds during migration.
10.2307/1370157|The diving ability of two tropical Pelecaniformes, the Red-footed Booby (Sula sula) and the Red-tailed Tropicbird (Phaethon rubricauda) was studied on Europa Island, southern Mozambique Channel, using capillary depth recorders fitted on breeding adults. Both species mainly exploited the first 4 m of the water column. Although such a depth can be reached solely by passive plunge diving, the range of depths reached by the two species suggests that they may, at least sometimes, use their feet and wings to perform active underwater pursuit swimming. Intraspecific comparison of the depth reached by Red-tailed Tropicbirds also suggests that this species may change its diving behavior seasonally.
10.2307/1369808|Rufous Bush Chats (Cercotrichas galactotes) show a conspicuous tail color pattern consisting of terminal white and subterminal black patches which are shown in tail display during nest defense, aggression, and courtship. Multiple linear regression of visual tail features of males showed that in the two years of study, birds with higher bilateral symmetry in the black patches attained higher seasonal reproductive success, mated earlier in the season, and their nests were less likely to be depredated. In one year, birds with greater white terminal patches also attained higher reproductive success and their nests were less likely to be depredated, and in the other year birds with longer tails paired earlier. I suggest that these tail features have an effect on reproductive success by facilitating early pairing and/or by diminishing nest predation.
10.2307/1369322|We examined annual variation in breeding bird populations at sites in northwestern Wisconsin and in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan from 1986 to 1992 to determine (1) the extent to which different bird species vary in abundance over time and (2) whether or not patterns of variation differ when viewed at local and regional spatial scales. Total abundance of long-distance migrants (species that winter in the tropics) declined during the first few years in both states but subsequent increases returned abundance to levels close to those that occurred at the start of the study. Short-distance migrants (species that winter in temperate regions) showed the greatest similarity between states in the extent and direction of variation in abundance among years; abundance reached a low in both states during 1990. Unlike migrant groups, abundance of permanent residents was not correlated between states. Permanent residents declined in abundance from 1987 to 1988 in Michigan, for example, but increased in abundance in Wisconsin. Fluctuations in abundance generally were poorly correlated among groups within a state. Repeated-measures analysis of variance (one-way) revealed that abundances of 13 and 21 (62%) common, long-distance migrants, 13 of 16 (81%) short-distance migrants, and 7 of 9 (78%) permanent residents varied significantly among years in one or both states. Fluctuations in abundance likely occurred in response to events on the breeding grounds. Factors likely to have affected populations include severe drought, particularly during 1987 and 1988, as well as successional changes in habitat. It is unlikely that events on tropical wintering grounds caused population fluctuations observed in neotropical migrants. Two-way ANOVA indicated that patterns of variation differed between the two study regions (significant interaction effects) for a number of species, particularly permanent residents. Results of this study thus illustrate the importance of considering temporal variation in abundance at more than one spatial scale.
10.1525/cond.2013.110092|In 2003 and 2004 I investigated the relationship between patch area and number of avian bamboo specialists among 13 patches of
10.1525/cond.2010.090150|Cumulative loss of habitat and long-term decline in the populations of the Lesser Prairie-Chicken (
10.2307/1370410|We used a hierarchical approach to describe habitat characteristics of song posts and foraging sites used by Varied Thrushes (Ixoreus naevius) in coastal redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forests of northwestern California. We measured mesohabitat (0.04-ha circular plots) and microhabitat (0.5-m radius) scale attributes centered on occupied and random song posts and foraging locations at four study sites during March-August of 1994 and 1995. Ninety-five percent of song posts were in trees or snags. Male thrushes used song posts with low foliage density near the top of large conifers (microhabitat scale), located on steeper slopes, surrounded by a high density of trees, and centered in drainages closer to water (mesohabitat scale) as compared to random locations. Varied Thrushes foraged predominantly on the ground early in the breeding season, then subsequently included fruit in their diet after the young had fledged. Although many variables were correlated with ground foraging locations, microhabitat foliage density had the greatest explanatory power, indicating thrushes selected foraging locations primarily at the microhabitat scale, and emphasizing the importance of measuring habitat characteristics at the appropriate spatial scale. Abrupt forest edges, such as those produced by clearcuts, may reduce habitat suitability for Varied Thrushes possibly explaining their absence from small forest fragments during the breeding season.
10.2307/1369142| I assessed whether White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys) engage in aggressive interactions more frequently when feeding closer to cover, while food availability was held constant. For a given group size, interaction rate was higher closer to cover, suggesting that sparrows perceived such locations to be more valuable (i.e., more safe). The rate of aggression was also strongly positively correlated both with the number of birds in the immediate vicinity (within 0.5) and with the total number of birds foraging (within 2 m  1 m area). The effect of immediate group size on rate of aggression was weaker farther from cover. 
10.2307/1368837|Variation in 36 morphometric variables among 82 Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus) wintering in Humboldt County, California, was evaluated; 15 variables were analyzed in detail to identify patterns of morphometric variation and differences among sex-age classes. Adult males were the largest class, and males had a significant positive covariation between wing length and other external and internal morphological features. There was no such covariation among females. When 15 morphological variables were evaluated with a principal components analysis, seven components accounted for 74% of the observed variation. Only the first component, associated with external body size and heart weight, was aligned with sex and age differences. There was some sex-age variation associated with viscera weights, and to a lesser extent with tarsus size in relation to bill length. There was little sex-age variation among most bill measures, body fat measures, or spleen weight. Based on a discriminant function analysis, five of the 15 variables discriminated the morphologies of the sex-age groups. Our data suggest that sexual dimorphism is minor in immatures, but pronounced in adults. This increase of dimorphism with age occurred for most external and internal characters, but was not apparent for bill dimensions. We believe that Tundra Swans can be classified into three distinct groups on the basis of internal and external morphological features: (1) adult males have a relatively large body size but are similar in viscera weight and foot length to immature swans; (2) adult females are intermediate in body size, small in viscera weight, and smaller in foot length than adult and immature males; and (3) immature swans are relatively small-bodied, but similar in viscera weights and foot length measures to adult males.
1370518| We described characteristics of the wintering area used by Spectacled Eiders (Somateria fischeri) in the Bering Sea, Alaska, and evaluated these characteristics in relation to long-term population trends. Remoteness, limited daylight, and extreme weather conditions precluded direct observations, so we derived the location of the wintering area from satellite telemetry, ice conditions from remotely sensed data, weather conditions from archived data sets, and benthic communities from the literature. Based on analyses of two indices spanning 1957-2002 and 1988-2002, we identified no single environmental parameter that explained the precipitous decline in nesting populations in western Alaska. In general, we found that the number of days with extreme sea ice in winter, extreme winds, and winds in spring explained the greatest variability in annual indices. These analyses support the conclusion that annual population estimates on the breeding grounds can be negatively impacted by extended periods of dense sea-ice concentration and weather during the previous winter. Examination of population indices did not support the hypothesis that changes in benthic community on the wintering grounds have contributed to the decline or inhibited the recovery of the Spectacled Eider breeding population in western Alaska. /// Describimos las caractersticas del rea de invernada utilizada por Somateria fischeri en el Mar de Bering, Alaska, y evaluamos estas caractersticas con relacin a tendencias poblacionales a largo plazo. La lejana, la limitacin en las horas de luz y las condiciones climticas extremas imposibilitaron realizar observaciones directas, por lo que calculamos la localizacin de los sitios de invernada basndonos en telemetra satelital, las condiciones del hielo a partir de informacin remota, las condiciones del tiempo basndonos en archivos de datos y las comunidades bnticas a partir de la literatura. El anlisis de dos ndices que se extendieron entre 1957-2002 y 1988-2002 no permiti identificar un parmetro ambiental nico que explicara la declinacin precipitada en las poblaciones nidificantes en el oeste de Alaska. En general, encontramos que el nmero de das del invierno con mucho hielo en el mar, los vientos extremos y los vientos en la primavera explicaron la mayor variabilidad en los ndices anuales. Estos anlisis apoyan la conclusin de que las estimaciones poblacionales anuales en las reas de cra pueden estar afectadas negativamente por largos perodos de concentraciones densas de hielo marino y de tiempo durante el invierno previo. El examen de los ndices poblacionales no apoy la hiptesis de que los cambios en las comunidades bnticas en las reas de invernada hayan contribuido a la declinacin o hayan inhibido la recuperacin de las poblaciones reproductivas de S. fischeri en el oeste de Alaska. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090172|Birds can hide from visual predators by locating nests where there is cover and from olfactory predators where habitat features create updrafts, high winds, and atmospheric turbulence, but sites optimal for hiding from visual and olfactory predators often differ. We examined how Greater Sage-Grouse (
10.2307/1370075|We used DNA fingerprinting to study genetic parentage in socially monogamous Long-eared Owls (Asio otus). We detected no extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs) in 59 nestlings from 12 nests. One of these nests was solitary, but the other 11 had from one to five pairs of owls nesting simultaneously within 30 to 250 m. Thus, despite the presumably high potential for extra-pair matings, the Long-eared Owls that we studied were genetically monogamous. In addition, based on low band sharing among adults, we found no evidence that nesting aggregations were composed of close relatives. Genetic monogamy appears to be the rule for socially monogamous raptors. We suggest that the high rate of male parental effort in raptors selects against EPFs because females that engage in extra-pair activities risk losing parental investment by males whose confidence in paternity is reduced owing to the behavior of their mates.
10.2307/1367245|The foraging niche patterns of woodpeckers and insectivorous passerines in two montane forests in New Hampshire were characterized and compared in separate and joint multivariate analyses. Comparisons of these two communities occurring in contrasting environments help to identify and assess the relative importance of the factors determining their species compositions and niche structures. The most important of these are shown to be the interrelated effects of climate, habitat physiognomy, competitive interactions, food resource base, wintering habits, and biogeographic origin of the avifaunas. Subalpine birds had lower and more variable population densities, plus lower niche diversity but greater niche overlap than birds of northern hardwoods. Niche ordinations showed that canopy height and foraging substrate were important gradients in the organization of both communities. We conclude that the patterns of bird community structure in these particular habitats are responses to diverse evolutionary and ecological events that determine individual species' patterns of habitat selection and resource exploitation.
10.2307/1369042| Migratory behaviors and associated food habits were investigated for two closely-related seabird species, Sooty (Puffinus griseus) and Short-tailed Shearwaters (P. tenuirostris), sampled in the western North Pacific from April to June in 1986, 1989, and 1990 using their carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios (muscle  <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N). The shearwaters exhibited  <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N values of -24.5 to -17.6, and 7.3 to 13.0, respectively. Shearwaters showed areal differences in their stable isotope ratios: those from the oceanic group in June had significantly higher  <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N values than those from the coastal area of northern Japan in April and May. The isotope compositions of both species increased along with their migration from the Southern Hemisphere to the North Pacific. The low stable isotope ratios in the birds from the coastal area strongly demonstrated the preservation of isotope ratios of prey in the Southern Hemisphere before their northward migration. Significant differences in a  <sup>13</sup>C- <sup>15</sup>N map were also observed between two species as well as within single species in time and space. In the coastal area of northern Japan, Sooty Shearwaters showed somewhat higher  <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N values than Short-tailed Shearwaters. However, no interspecific difference of their  <sup>15</sup>N value was found in the oceanic area of North Pacific, but the  <sup>13</sup>C value of Sooty Shearwater was significantly higher than these of Short-tailed Shearwater. The interspecific difference in the coastal and oceanic areas reflects their changing dietary difference. 
1370554| We evaluated the antibiotic resistance of bacteria isolated from cloacal swabs of wild birds collected with mist nets in the Jequitinhonha river valley, in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. A total of 191 isolates from 19 individuals of 16 species was obtained and tested for resistance to five antibiotics. At Salto da Divisa 97% of the isolates exhibited a resistant phenotype, and resistance to more than one antibiotic was frequent (71%). At Jequitinhonha 36% of isolates were resistant, but 94% showed resistance to only one antibiotic. Of the five antibiotics tested, resistance to ampicillin was most frequent (in both areas), whereas kanamycin resistance was found in only one isolate. The data here obtained and other data reported in the literature show that the general premise that antibiotic-resistant bacteria arise primarily in hospitals or animal farms should be reconsidered. /// Avaliamos a resistncia a antibiticos de bactrias isoladas por swab cloacal em aves selvagens capturadas com redes de neblina em duas regies do Vale do Rio Jequitinhonha, Minas Gerais, Brasil. Foram obtidos 191 isolados de 19 indivduos de 16 espcies e foi testada a resistncia desses isolados a cinco antibiticos. Em Salto da Divisa, 97% dos isolados exibiram fentipo resistente e foi freqente (71%) a resistncia a mais de um antibitico. Em Jequitinhonha, 36% dos isolados exibiram fentipo resistente, dos quais 94% apresentaram resistncia a apenas um antibitico. Em ambas as reas, a maioria dos isolados apresentou resistncia  ampicilina, enquanto somente um nico isolado foi resistente  canamicina. Os dados aqui obtidos e outros relatados na literatura mostram que a premissa geral de que bactrias resistentes a antibiticos surgem principalmente em hospitais ou fazendas de animais deve ser reconsiderada. 
10.2307/1369999|We investigated the relationship between body mass and the rate and pattern of feather growth of the four outermost primaries of Wandering Albatross (Diomedea exulans) chicks. Maximum growth rates were similar (4.5 mm day<sup>-1</sup>) for all feathers and between sexes, although primaries of males were significantly longer than those of females. There was a distinctive pattern to primary growth with p10 grown last, reaching its asymptote just prior to fledging. Primaries growing did so at different maximum rates; thus p7 reached its asymptote at an earlier age than p8 or p9, but maximum growth rates were the same for all primaries. Maximum growth rates of p7 and p8 were significantly correlated with chick mass at the start of the period of primary growth, and chick mass also was correlated with age at fledging. The heavier the chick, the earlier it grew its primaries and the younger it fledged. Fledging periods for Wandering Albatross chicks may be constrained by the time required to grow a full set of primaries. We suggest that the observed pattern of feather growth is a mechanism to minimize potential wear of the outer primaries prior to fledging.
40306199|Approximately 7080% of the entire population of the Trumpeter Swan (
10.2307/1367673| Core temperatures of free-living Roadrunners (Geococcyx californianus) were monitored with temperature-sensitive radio transmitters. Breeding males were found to perform all of the nocturnal incubation and to maintain normothermic body temperatures at night. Body temperatures of females and non-breeding males dropped at night to as low as 33C, depending on the ambient temperature. Facultative, short-term hypothermia appears to be a regular energy-saving feature of this species that is conspicuously not employed by the nocturnal incubator. 
10.2307/3247730|We conducted breeding season surveys of California Black Rail (Laterallus jamaicensis coturniculus) populations in California and western Arizona from 1986-1989. During the course of our field work we developed a method to derive abundance indices and assign abundance values to each study area. We found the bulk of the population (> 80%) confined to the northern reaches of the San Francisco Bay estuary, especially the tidal marshland of San Pablo Bay and associated rivers. Elsewhere, distribution was patchy and subpopulations were small and isolated. Through a review of the literature, discussions with local field ornithologists, and our field work, we determined that the Black Rail population in Western North America is suffering a progressive decline. The causes of this downward trend-all related to habitat loss or degradation-are pervasive and ongoing.
10.2307/1369037|Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis bryani) were studied on the island of Hawaii from 1970 through 1981. The species had a protracted breeding season from February through August, with most intensive breeding from April to June. Annual breeding season length varied among years (range 3-7 months). Elepaio retained mates for more than one season and remained in their territory throughout the year. An Elepaio territory encompassed the nest site, all food resources, and had similar boundaries in succeeding years. Nests were statant, open-cupped, with mamane (Sophora chrysophylla) trees the preferred nesting substrate. Clutch size of 23 nests was two eggs and did not vary among years. Both parents incubated, brooded, and fed the young. Incubation periods averaged 18 (range 17-19) days; hatching success of eggs incubated to term in 22 nests was 75%. Nestling periods averaged 15.6 days; fledging success was 89.3% and young fledged synchronously. Total reproductive success, based on 19 nests with complete records, was 65.8%. The most important factor that influenced annual Elepaio productivity on Mauna Kea was length of the breeding season, followed by the number of nesting birds and eggs laid that failed to hatch (25%). Inter-island subspecies comparisons revealed many similar behaviors (e.g., courtship chasing, territory type, clutch and egg sizes, nest placement, adult roles in nest building, incubation, brooding and feeding). Differences among subspecies appeared to revolve mainly around the influences of forest-type in which birds bred. In mesic habitats on Oahu and Hawaii, predation of eggs and young by introduced mammals played a major role in decreasing annual productivity, whereas in the dry forest of Mauna Kea predation on C. s. bryani nests was much lower.
10.2307/1369181| Density, annual survival, philopatry, and movements of two species of Hawaiian honeycreepers, the Apapane (Himatione sanguinea) and the Iiwi (Vestiaria coccinea), were studied at four sites on the island of Hawaii. Highest densities of both species occurred during the breeding season and were highly correlated with flowering by Metrosideros. Annual survival probability (the complement of which includes permanent emigration) was 0.13  0.07 for hatching-year (HY) Apapane, 0.72  0.11 for adult Apapane, 0.09  0.05 for HY Iiwi, and 0.55  0.12 for adult Iiwi. Survival of adult Iiwi was the lowest of six species of native Hawaiian forest birds and may be related to their high susceptibility to avian disease. Small resident populations of both species remained on our study sites throughout the year, but 78% of 1,361 Apapane and 82% of 891 Iiwi were never captured or seen after their initial capture. Widespread movements of Apapane and Iiwi in response to the seasonal and patchy availability of Metrosideros nectar have important implications for disease transmission since Apapane are the primary carrier of avian malaria and avian pox in Hawaii, and Iiwi appear to be highly susceptible to mortality from malaria. 
10.2307/1369365| Seasonal and temporal patterns of species diversity and abundance in the avifauna of Chamela, Jalisco, Mexico, were studied in different habitats in the coastal tropical dry forest. Species richness did not differ among three different transects. The number of species was temporally homogeneous. Species diversity was similar for all three transects, but it changed to higher values during the rainy season at arroyo habitats and during the dry season (winter) at disturbed habitats. Population fluctuations observed in the second year of the study suggest that stochastic events such as droughts in this region may influence local population dynamics. Patterns of population fluctuation of resident species are discussed with regard to censusing methods and conservation priorities. /// Se estudiaron los patrones estacionales y temporales de diversidad y abundancia de la avifauna de Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico en distintos habitats de la selva baja caducifolia de la costa. La riqueza de especies no difiere entre transectos y es homognea temporalmente. La diversidad de especies es similar entre transectos, pero el valor del ndice aumenta durante la poca hmeda a lo largo de los arroyos y durante la poca de secas (invierno) en las zonas perturbadas. Las fluctuaciones en el tamao de las poblaciones observadas durante el segundo ao del estudio sugieren que eventos estocsticos como las sequas en la regin pueden afectar la dinmica de las poblaciones a nivel local. Los patrones de fluctuaciones de las poblaciones de especies residentes son discutidos en trminos de la metodologa usada para censar y en cuanto a su prioridad de conservacin. 
1369694|Small mammals, such as mice and voles, have been implicated as major egg predators of Neotropical migrant passerines by field studies using soft plasticine eggs or the very small eggs of Zebra Finch (Taeniopygia guttata). Nevertheless, the effort required to depredate these commonly used egg surrogates may be less than that required to depredate the larger, thicker-shelled eggs of most passerine species. To compare the depredation of these surrogates to that of the eggs of a mid-sized passerine by a ubiquitous small predator, we exposed dissimilar pairs of plasticine, Zebra Finch, and House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) eggs to captive white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus). Plasticine eggs were marked by mice more than either kind of real egg, and Zebra Finch eggs were breached more often than House Sparrow eggs. We conclude that the use of either plasticine or Zebra Finch eggs may lead to overestimation of the ability or proclivity of small mammals to actually depredate the eggs of most passerines.
10.2307/1369854|The behavior and natural history of the Yellow-crowned Manakin (Heterocercus flavivertex, Pipridae) were observed on the Rio Ventuari in northern Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela. Male flavivertex have a solitary lek breeding system, a display repertoire including five distinct vocalizations, several display elements, and a probable mechanical display sound. The tail-shiver display, in which the cocked tail is prominently featured, has not been observed in other Heterocercus species, but this display element may be an explanation for the evolution of the unique tail shape in the genus. Other flavivertex display elements, such as the above-the-canopy display flight, are behavioral homologs shared with other Heterocercus species. Female H. flavivertex construct hanging cup nests that are similar in architecture, composition, and placement to other manakin species. The diet of H. flavivertex is apparently composed of a greater quantity of insects than other manakin species. The evolution of display, morphology, diet, and social behavior in Heterocercus is discussed.
10.2307/1368804| I studied the foraging behavior and diet of the Helmeted Manakin (Antilophia galeata) in the gallery forests in the cerrado (savanna) region of central Brazil. Observations of 21 color-marked birds were made from April 1988 to March 1989 on a 2.5-ha study plot in a gallery forest. They showed that Helmeted Manakins are highly frugivorous (85.7% of foraging observations were on fruits; all stomach contents analyzed had fruits while arthropods were present in only 24.5%; and 96.2% of the fecal masses collected under a nest had fruits while 61.5% had arthropods); and take fruit mostly (46.5% of the observations) while in flight (sallies). Helmeted Manakins ate fruits of 17 species of 12 families of plants, as well as arthropods such as Araneae, Orthoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, and Hymenoptera. One to six Helmeted Manakins attended 63.6% of the mixed-species flocks observed. Green birds (females and immature males) foraged at lower heights (6.5  4.6 m) than adult and subadult males, which foraged at a height (8.2  4.4 m) closer to where they sang (10.2  3.8 m) or called (8.4  4.8 m). The Helmeted Manakin showed similarities to other manakins in the diet and foraging tactics used, even though it may not be promiscuous (Marini and Cavalcanti, in prep.) and has an unique geographical distribution among dichromatic manakins. 
10.2307/1368388| The spatial distribution of Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) overwintering in central Arkansas was studied in relation to perch availability, plant cover, and small rodent biomass in six habitat patch types. In general, raptor foraging was distributed nonrandomly among patch types. Red-tailed Hawks occupied corn stubble and old-field patches more frequently than expected by chance and occupied tall corn and bare patches less frequently than expected. Adult male Northern Harriers used corn stubble and wetland patches more frequently than expected and used tall corn and bare patches less frequently than expected, while adult female and juvenile harriers used wetland patches more frequently than expected and used bare patches less frequently than expected. The general distribution of Northern Harriers is interpreted as a response to prey biomass availability (rodent biomass index  1/plant cover density), while Red-tailed Hawk distribution is interpreted as a response to both prey biomass availability and perch availability. 
1370544| Comparison of the skeletons of 92 of the 99 species of Icteridae resulted in some revision of the generic classification. The most useful characters were length of the retroarticular process of the mandible, presence or absence of a free lacrimal bone, shape of the tarsometatarsus, nature of the bony casque, and nature of the pneumotricipital fossa. On the basis of skeletal features I recommend these changes in the classification of Blake (1968) as modified by Short (1968, 1975): Amblycercus should be recognized; Oreopsar should be submerged in Gnorimopsar; no subfamilies should be recognized; a different sequence of genera should be adopted. /// La comparacin de los esqueletos de 92 de las 99 especies de ictridos result en algunas revisiones de la clasificacin genrica. Los caracteres ms tiles fueron la longitud del proceso retroarticular de la mandbula, la presencia o ausencia de un hueso lacrimal libre, la forma del tarso metatarso, la naturaleza del casco seo y la naturaleza de la fosa pneumotricipital. Con base en las caractersticas del esqueleto, recomiendo los siguientes cambios en la clasificacin de Blake (1968) modificada por Short (1968, 1975): se debera reconocer el gnero Amblycercus; el gnero Oreopsar debera incluirse en Gnorimopsar; no se deberan reconocer subfamilias y se debera adoptar una secuencia de gneros diferente. 
10.2307/1369110| Half of all nests of the McCown's Longspur (Calcarius mccownii) were depredated in the shortgrass prairie of northcentral Colorado, and almost all nesting failures in this species were attributable to predators, primarily the thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus). Nests placed beside shrubs were 2-3 times more likely to be depredated than nests associated with other types of vegetation. Half of all nests (n = 28) were associated with shrubs in a moderately grazed pasture, and 80% of these nests were eventually depredated. In contrast, most nests (57%, n = 21) were placed beside cactus in a heavily grazed pasture, which had little shrub cover. Of the 20% of nests placed beside shrubs in this pasture, however, 75% were depredated. Factor analysis of habitat variables measured at several scales around nests generated one factor that significantly explained variation in nest fate. This factor described shrub cover within 1 m of the nest and midgrass cover and degree of heterogeneity (continuity of the shortgrass matrix) at 2 m. Fine-scale (1 m) shrub cover was the most important determinant of predation risk. Nests that were depredated during incubation had six times more shrub cover within 1 m of the nest than nests depredated during the nestling period; successful nests had no measurable (5% total cover) shrub cover at this scale. The relationship between shrubs and an increased risk of nest predation is consistent with incidental predation by ground squirrels, which concentrate their activities beneath the cover afforded by shrubs. 
10.2307/1368345|These experiments examined the role of colony numbers, spacing pattern, and mating status on the social attraction of Least Terns (Sterna antillarum). Decoys were used to simulate different social conditions. Least Terns were more attracted to larger rather than smaller groups of terns, to terns spaced out at 1.5 m intervals rather than at 0.5 m intervals, to solitary rather than paired terns, and to plots containing single birds together with paired terns rather than to either alone. Taken together, these experiments suggest that colony size, spacing patterns, and mating status contribute to the relative social attraction of conspecific Least Tern groups. The specific choice of larger groups, larger interbird distances, and pairs plus singles allows (1) males to establish territories within the center of a colony, (2) both sexes to court unmated birds, and (3) both sexes to obtain maximum vigilance and antipredatory benefits from being in a larger group.
10.1525/cond.2013.110206|Breeding birds must choose habitat at a multiple scales, from landscapes to nest sites. It is important to understand how birds make these decisions and the relationships between these choices and breeding success. Over 3 years, we studied nest-site selection of the Ringed Warbling-Finch (
3247754| Parrots are vocal learners and many species of parrots are capable of learning new calls, even as adults. This capability gives parrots the potential to develop communication systems that can vary dramatically over space. St. Lucia Parrot (Amazona versicolor) flight vocalizations were examined for geographic variation between four different sites on the island of St. Lucia. Spectrographic cross-correlation analysis of a commonly used flight vocalization, the p-chow call, demonstrated quantitative differences between sites. Additionally, the similarity of p-chows decreased as the distance between sites increased. Flight call repertoires also differed among sites; parrots at the Des Bottes and Quilesse sites each used one flight call unique to those sites, while parrots at the Barre de L'Isle site used a flight call that Quilesse parrots gave only while perched. It is unclear whether the vocal variation changed clinally with distance, or whether there were discrete dialect boundaries as in a congener, the Yellow-naped Parrot (Amazona auropalliata, Wright 1996). The geographical scale over which the St. Lucia Parrot's vocal variation occurred was dramatically smaller than that of the Yellow-naped Parrot. Similar patterns of fine-scale vocal variation may be more widespread among other parrot species in the Caribbean than previously documented. /// Los loros aprenden vocalizaciones y los individuos de muchas especies son capaces de aprender nuevas llamadas incluso cuando son adultos. Esta habilidad otorga a los loros el potencial de desarrollar sistemas de comunicacin que pueden variar notablemente en el espacio. Se estudiaron las vocalizaciones de vuelo de Amazona versicolor para determinar la ocurrencia de variaciones geogrficas entre cuatro lugares diferentes de la isla de Santa Luca. Un anlisis espectrogrfico de correlacin cruzada de la llamada comn, conocida como "p-chow", demostr diferencias cuantitativas entre los distintos lugares. Adems, la similitud entre estas llamadas disminuy con incrementos en la distancia entre los lugares. Los repertorios de llamadas de vuelo tambin difirieron entre lugares: los loros de las localidades de Des Bottes y Quilesse emplearon una llamada de vuelo exclusiva para cada uno de esos sitios, mientras que los de Barre De L'Isle usaron como llamada de vuelo una vocalizacin que los de Quilesse slo emitieron cuando estaban posados. No queda claro si las vocalizaciones cambian clinalmente con la distancia, o si existen distintos tipos discretos de vocalizaciones, como en su congnere A. auropalliata (Wright 1996). La escala geogrfica a la que se da la variacin vocal en A. versicolor es bastante menor que aquella a la cual se presenta en A. auropalliata. Patrones similares de variacin vocal a pequea escala pueden ser ms comunes en otras especies de loros del Caribe de lo que se ha documentado hasta ahora. 
10.2307/1368389|This paper reports the results of an experimental test of the hypothesis that female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) should preferentially nest in areas containing old nests rather than in areas without them. The assumption that old nests can provide females with information about the nesting history of an area was supported by the finding that over 90% of redwing nests survived between two breeding seasons. Experiments to determine whether females actually respond to the relative density of old nests when selecting nest sites produced mixed results. In 1983, females built significantly more nests on seven experimental plots with old nests than on seven matched plots without old nests, but there were no significant differences between matched plots in 1984. Although these limited results do not support the old nest hypothesis, they do suggest that further investigation may be worthwhile.
10.2307/1368491|Golden-fronted Woodpeckers (Melanerpes aurifrons) and Red-bellied Woodpeckers (M. carolinus) are sympatric from southwestern Oklahoma to eastern Texas. Earlier studies found no evidence of hybridization (Selander and Giller 1963). However, in the recent past the area of range overlap between these two species has increased, thereby increasing the opportunity for hybridization. I investigated the possibility of hybridization by analyzing morphological and electrophoretic characteristics. Twenty-five (15.8%) individuals with intermediate morphologies were collected within the area of overlap and were identified as putative hybrids. Electrophoretic analysis of 12 liver and muscle proteins revealed a close genic affinity between the two species. Individual genic complements within the zone of overlap indicate that some individuals are intermediate. The intermediate morphology and mixed genic composition of some individuals within the zone of overlap supports the conclusion that Red-bellied and Golden-fronted woodpeckers hybridize.
10.2307/1369853| We inventoried breeding and wintering bird communities in four treatments of temperate rainforest on Prince of Wales Island, southeast Alaska during 1991-1992 and 1992-1993. The four forest treatments sampled included: (1) young growth (20 years) originating from clearcut logging with no silvicultural modification (non-modified), (2) young growth (20 years) precommercially thinned along uniformly-spaced thinning grids (thinned), (3) young growth (20 years) with gaps in the overstory canopy created by felling trees in 0.05-ha openings (gapped), and (4) virgin old growth ( 150 years). Of 16 common breeding bird species observed, six showed significant responses to young-growth modifications. One species was more abundant and two species were less abundant in thinned sites, while one species was more abundant and two species were less abundant in gapped sites than at least one of the other treatments. None of the three common wintering species of birds observed was influenced by young-growth modification. Breeding bird communities, in general, were less similar between young- and old-growth treatments than among young-growth treatments. Three of the 16 common breeding bird species were more abundant in old growth than each of the young-growth treatments and one uncommon species was detected almost exclusively in old growth during both the breeding and wintering seasons. Four other breeding bird species were more abundant in young-growth treatments than in old growth. Higher use of old growth by wintering birds was related to winter severity. To enhance habitat for wintering and breeding birds we recommend: (1) thinning young growth along variable-spaced grids to create additional canopy layers and improve snow-intercept properties of young growth for canopy-foraging birds, (2) retention of old-growth clumps in clearcuts for bird species associated with old-growth structure, and (3) long-term conservation of old-growth temperate rainforest for breeding and wintering birds positively associated with old growth. 
1370346| Explaining why breeding colonies vary in size has been a persistent problem in the study of animal spatial distribution. One hypothesis is that colony size reflects local food availability, which may be affected by the number of conspecifics feeding in a given area. We investigated whether colony size in Cliff Swallows (Petrochelidon pyrrhonota) was influenced by competition for food from birds in nearby colonies. Because we knew where Cliff Swallows foraged in relation to their colonies, we could designate for each colony site which neighboring colonies shared its foraging range. If intercolony competition for food is important in the birds' settlement decisions, a negative correlation between a site's colony size and the total number of nests in neighboring sites should result. Among-site analyses within years revealed negative correlations in 8 of 10 years; however, none of the correlation coefficients was significant. Separate among-year analyses for 32 sites revealed none with statistically significant correlations, and the direction of these correlations was not consistent. Annual variability in colony size tended to increase slightly as more colony sites shared the foraging range. Intercolony competition for food in Cliff Swallows does not appear to be strong, perhaps because food is normally abundant and not appreciably depleted by foragers. Also, because of synchronous between-site colony establishment, it may be difficult to predict the number of birds at neighboring sites and thus the degree of future competition at the time individuals settle. Intercolony competition for food may be important only for certain sites or for colonies established later in the year. /// Explicar por qu existe variacin en el tamao entre colonias reproductivas ha sido un problema recurrente en el estudio de la distribucin espacial de los animales. Una hiptesis propone que el tamao de la colonia refleja la disponibilidad local de alimento, la cual a su vez puede verse afectada por el nmero de individuos coespecficos que se alimentan en un rea dada. Nosotros investigamos si el tamao de la colonia en golondrinas Petrochelidon pyrrhonota est influenciado por competencia por alimento con aves de colonias cercanas. Establecimos cules colonias vecinas compartan reas de forrajeo basndonos en informacin sobre dnde forrajeaban las golondrinas en relacin a la ubicacin de sus colonias. Si la competencia por alimento entre colonias es importante para las golondrinas al decidir dnde establecerse, se esperara una correlacin negativa entre el tamao de una colonia y el nmero total de nidos en sitios vecinos. Anlisis entre sitios para un mismo ao mostraron correlaciones negativas en 8 de 10 aos, pero ninguno de estos coeficientes de correlacin fue significativo. Anlisis inter-anuales para 32 sitios por separado no revelaron ninguna correlacin estadsticamente significativa, y la direccin de estas correlaciones no fue consistente. La variacin anual en el tamao de las colonias tendi a aumentar ligeramente a medida que ms colonias compartan el rea de forrajeo. La competencia por alimento entre colonias no parece ser fuerte en P. pyrrhonota, posiblemente porque la abundancia del alimento es normalmente alta y no es reducida considerablemente por el forrajeo de las golondrinas. Adems, debido a que las golondrinas se establecen de modo sincrnico, sera difcil predecir en ese momento el nmero de aves presentes en sitios vecinos y por lo tanto, el grado futuro de competencia. La competencia por alimento entre colonias podra ser importante slo en algunos sitios o en colonias que se establecen ms tarde en el ao. 
1370580| We used microsatellite markers, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), and satellite telemetry to infer the North American geographic origin and racial composition of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) from newly colonized habitats in Greenland. Using likelihood-based assignment tests we determined that multilocus genotypes of Greenland Canada Geese were consistent with the hypothesis of origin from birds of the Atlantic Population breeding around southern Ungava Bay, Quebec, Canada. The Atlantic Population, based on previous studies of seasonal movements and demography, appeared to be reproductively isolated from the North Atlantic Population. We found that these two populations were genetically differentiated based on microsatellite allele and mtDNA haplotype frequencies. Findings of high levels of genetic discordance among North American breeding populations are consistent with migratory movements, despite high levels of distributional overlap of birds from the North Atlantic and Atlantic Populations during migration and on wintering areas. Findings based on genetic markers were concordant with satellite telemetry conducted during spring migration, which showed that birds destined for Greenland migrate through the southern Ungava Bay breeding colony. Genetic differences among these populations are useful for addressing other issues of ecological or management concern. /// Utilizamos marcadores microsatlites, ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt), y telemetra de satlite para inferir el origen geogrfico en Norte Amrica y la composicin racial de los gansos Branta canadensis en hbitats recientemente colonizados en Groenlandia. Mediante pruebas de asignacin basadas en verosimilitud, determinamos que los genotipos multilocus de los gansos de Groenlandia eran consistentes con la hiptesis de origen de aves de la poblacin del Atlntico que se reproduce alrededor del sur de Ungava Bay, Quebec, Canad. Con base en estudios previos de movimientos estacionales y demografa, la poblacin del Atlntico pareci estar aislada reproductivamente de la poblacin del Atlntico Norte. Encontramos que estas dos poblaciones son genticamente diferentes en trminos de frecuencias allicas de microsatlites y haplotipos de ADNmt. El hallazgo de altos niveles de discordancia gentica entre poblaciones reproductivas norteamericanas es consistente con los movimientos migratorios, a pesar de los altos niveles de superposicin de las distribuciones de aves de las poblaciones del Atlntico y el Atlntico Norte durante la migracin y en las reas de invernada. Los resultados basados en los marcadores genticos concordaron con la telemetra satelital llevada a cabo durante la migracin de primavera, la cual mostr que las aves con destino a Groenlandia migran a travs del sur de la colonia reproductiva de Ungava Bay. Las diferencias genticas entre estas poblaciones son tiles para abordar otros asuntos de inters ecolgico o de manejo. 
10.2307/1369393|Prey distribution, environmental conditions, and competition should affect animals' choice of patches, hunting method, and prey types. Loggerhead Shrikes are sit-and-wait predators and rarely hunt in flight. We observed the effect of sub-optimal substrate on their hunting capabilities. Hunting attempts and hunting success were not significantly different before and after the substrate in six territories was mown, although significant differences occurred in the number of prey caught by aerial chases and hovering and in the number collected from perches. In two territories that were not mown, no significant differences occurred. None of the shrikes adjusted the boundaries of their territories; all were apparently able to overcome the effects of high vegetation by altering their hunting behavior.
10.2307/1369435|Hamilton and Orians (1965) hypothesized that obligate interspecific brood parasitism might evolve when nest destruction during laying leads birds to lay subsequent eggs in their clutches in conspecific nests. It is unknown whether facultative parasitism after nest destruction is common in birds, but it is a reasonable expectation since many nesting species, especially colonial ones, commonly practice intraspecific parasitism. Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) nests were removed after females laid their first eggs and other nests in the same colonies were monitored to determine whether the affected females laid subsequent eggs parasitically. No parasitic eggs appeared in other nests and, in some cases, fresh eggs were found the next day at the sites of the removed nests. Thus the initial response in the Hamilton-Orians hypothesis is uncommon or absent in Red-winged Blackbirds. A literature review and new data indicate that Red-winged Blackbirds lack defenses likely to forestall brood parasitism so the failure to elicit parasitism experimentally and its rarity or absence in nonmanipulative studies of this species is enigmatic
10.2307/1369904|I analyzed regurgitations from adult Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) and Sandwich Terns (S. sandvicensis) breeding in southwestern Puerto Rico in 1992 and 1993, and compared them with observations of prey delivered to chicks from 1991 to 1993 to determine similarities in the prey base for the two tern species during different stages in the breeding cycle, and differences between the diets of adults and chicks. I sampled prey fish at Turrumote lagoon where terns regularly fished to determine if the species composition of the fishes in the lagoon was representative of the prey base taken by terns. Adult Roseate Terns fed primarily on dwarf herrings (Jenkinsia lamprotaenia) and anchovies (Anchoa spp.), and fed chicks mostly dwarf herrings and sardines (Harengula and Opisthonema spp.); few anchovies were fed to chicks. Adult Sandwich Terns fed primarily on silversides (Hypoatherina harringtonensis) and sardines, and fed chicks mostly sardines and dwarf herrings; few silversides were fed to chicks. In 1992, both tern species apparently compensated for a lack of sardines by feeding their chicks proportionally more dwarf herrings. Diet diversity was greater for Sandwich than for Roseate Terns both in regurgitations and in prey delivered to chicks. Dietary overlap between the two species was low prior to, but converged following, chick hatching. Both species fed chicks increasingly larger prey as the chicks grew larger, but patterns were not consistent among years. Prey samples taken from Turrumote lagoon were representative of, but not in proportion to, the species of prey fed to chicks. These results indicate that although both Roseate and Sandwich Terns in Puerto Rico fed primarily on the same few species of fish, they did so in different proportions. This finding is consistent with an earlier study demonstrating foraging habitat segregation in these two species.
10.2307/1369809| We use 13 color characters to describe the first known Dendroica nigrescens  D. occidentalis hybrid. Because this specimen was collected in the southeastern Cascade Mountains of Washington during the breeding season, D. townsendi, D. occidentalis, and D. nigrescens are the only plausible parents for a hybrid male falling within the black-throated clade of Dendroica warblers. Multiple character states in the hybrid refute the alternative parental combinations, townsendi  occidentalis and townsendi  nigrescens. Two characteristics of this hybrid suggested further tests of the parentage of 38 problematic hybrids that were treated previously as townsendi  occidentalis recombinants by assumption only. These hybrids lack yellow on their breast, the only character that refutes a nigrescens  occidentalis parentage. The new hybrid is intermediate between nigrescens and occidentalis in the color of its posterior face and its anterior crown; thus, we scored these new characters in the 38 problematic hybrids. None of these 38 specimens was intermediate or white in either of these regions, and there was no correlation between having tinges of white in these regions and the extent of flank streaking. These results fail to support nigrescens in the parentage of these 38 specimens; furthermore, none of the problematic hybrids carried a nigrescens mitochondrial DNA haplotype. Thus, we conclude that all are unusual recombinants of townsendi  occidentalis hybridization, rather than nigrescens  occidentalis hybrids. 
10.2307/1368992|To better understand the role of piscivorous waterbirds in the food web of western Lake Erie, we applied a bioenergetics model to determine their total fish consumption. The important nesting species included the Herring Gull (Larus argentatus), Ring-billed Gull (L. delawarensis), Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus), Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), and Great Egret (Casmerodius albus). The impact of migrant waterbirds, including the Red-breasted Merganser (Mergus serrator), on western Lake Erie fish biomass was also considered in the analysis. According to the modeling results, during the early 1990s, piscivorous waterbirds consumed 13,368 tonnes of fish from western Lake Erie each year. This tonnage was equivalent to 15.2% of the prey fish biomass needed to support the walleye (Stizostedion vitreum) population in western Lake Erie during a single growing season. The model application was useful in quantifying energy flow between birds and fish in a large lake ecosystem.
10.2307/1368881|Aspects of Least Auklet (Aethia pusilla) breeding biology that pertain to the growth and development of chicks were studied on St. George Island, Bering Sea, Alaska, during the 1981 and 1982 breeding seasons. Yolk was 41% of fresh egg contents, a greater value than in the eggs of other alcid species. Adult incubation shifts averaged 24 hr, and both parents frequently spent the night together in the nest during both the incubation and chick-rearing periods. Adults brooded nestlings continuously during the day until 6 days post-hatching; diurnal brooding then declined gradually until cessation by Day 18. Chicks grew rapidly and achieved peak mass by 20 days posthatching; most fledged at masses greater than average adult body mass. Nestlings were fed an average of 5.3 meals day<sup>-1</sup>; meals averaged 5.4 g and consisted mostly of Neocalanus copepods. Estimates of breeding success (72% and 66% in 1981 and 1982, respectively) were about average for alcid species. The short nestling period of Least Auklet chicks is associated with frequent meal delivery and extended brooding made possible by the diurnal, nearshore foraging behavior of parents. Diurnal activity and nearshore foraging during the breeding season appear to be adaptations that minimize the duration of nesting and the associated risk of fox predation.
10.2307/1370458|We studied the migration patterns of nine Houbara Bustards (Chlamydotis undulata macqueenii) from two breeding areas in the Republic of Kazakhstan by tracking via satellite during two consecutive seasons. All the birds from the Taukum desert (east Kazakhstan) migrated southwest towards the Kyzylkum desert and then south-southeast towards Iran, south Afghanistan, and north Baluchistan. All the birds from the Buzachi peninsula (west Kazakhstan) migrated south towards Turkmenistan and Iran and then west towards south Iraq. Houbara followed similar migration routes in 1995 and 1996. All birds bypassed natural obstacles such as seas and mountains. The total distance covered by Houbara during their outward migration ranged from 1,600 to 2,320 km. We observed important interindividual variation in migration timing, duration, and patterns. Migration duration ranged from 14-73 days. Travel rate between the breeding grounds and the wintering grounds was 24 to 151 km day
10.2307/1368793| Altitudinal patterns of distribution, diversity, and species turnover in the avifauna of the Sierra de Atoyac, Sierra Madre del Sur, Guerrero, Mxico, were studied along a transect from the tropical coastal plain to high-altitude coniferous forests. Species richness is highest at low elevations and declines with increasing altitude. Richness is relatively uniform within habitat types, but high levels of species turnover are found at habitat ecotones. Altitudinal ranges of congener species pairs overlap more frequently than predicted by null models, suggesting that competition may not have played a dominant role in structuring the community. Patterns of diversity, endemism, and habitat destruction are discussed in terms of conservation priorities. /// Se estudiaron los patrones de distribucin altitudinal, diversidad y recambio de especies de la avifauna residente en la Sierra de Atoyac, Guerrero, Mxico, a lo largo de un transecto altitudinal que abarca todos los tipos de vegetacin presentes, desde la vegetacin costera hasta los bosques altos de conferas. La riqueza de especies es mayor en las partes bajas, decreciendo conforme aumenta la altitud. La riqueza es notablemente constante dentro de los hbitats, pero altos niveles de recambio de especies se encuentran en los ecotonos. Los intervalos altitudinales que ocupan pares y tros de especies congenricas muestran un mayor solapamiento que el predicho por modelos estadsticos nulos, sugiriendo que la competencia no ha jugado un papel dominante en la estructuracin de las comunidades. Los patrones de diversidad, endemismo y los efectos de la destruccin de los hbitats son discutidos en trminos de prioridades de conservacin. 
10.2307/1368061|During 1983-1985, we studied the reproductive success of several species of aquatic birds (coots, ducks, shorebirds, and grebes) nesting at two sites in Merced County, California: a selenium-contaminated site (Kesterson Reservoir) and a nearby reference site (Volta Wildlife Area). We used a computer program (MICROMORT) developed for the analysis of radiotelemetry data (Heisey and Fuller 1985) to estimate nest success and cause-specific failure rates, and then compared these parameters and hatchability between sites and among years. Nest success and causes of failure varied by species, site, and year. The most important causes of nest failure were usually predation, desertion, and water-level changes. However, embryotoxicosis (mortality, deformity, and lack of embryonic development) was the most important cause of nest failure in Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) at Kesterson Reservoir. Embryotoxicosis also reduced the hatchability of eggs of all other species at Kesterson in one or more years; embryonic mortality occurred rarely at Volta, and abnormalities were not observed.
10.2307/1368230|We used data from 87 km of line transects in northern Michigan and northern Wisconsin in June 1985 to determine the optimum length of replicate transects required to assess bird populations. Data are from a study comparing bird populations in areas affected by electromagnetic fields (treatments) to those in areas unaffected (controls). Transects were subdivided into six different lengths varying from 100 m to 1,000 m. With equal effort, we were able to detect smaller differences in bird counts between control and treatment areas with short transects and large sample sizes than with long transects and small sample sizes. Transects shorter that 350 m required the smallest amount of effort to detect a 15% difference between means for number of individuals and species. The most efficient transect length for detecting a 25% difference between means was not consistent for individual species but was positively correlated with relative density. The shortest transect (100 m) was best for detecting differences for the Ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus), Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), and Nashville Warbler (Vermivora ruficapilla) the most abundant species; a 250-m transect was best for the Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens); and a 500-m transect for the least abundant species, the White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis).
40072428|We describe the genetic mating system of Cherrie's Tanager (
1370336| We used 
10.2307/1370418|We conducted genetic analyses of Aleutian Canada Geese (Branta canadensis leucopareia) from Buldir Island in the western Aleutians and the Semidi Islands in the eastern portion of their breeding range. We compared data from seven microsatellite DNA loci and 143 base pairs of the control region of mitochondrial DNA from the two populations of Aleutian Canada Geese and another small-bodied subspecies, the Cackling Canada Goose (B. c. minima) which nests in western Alaska. The widely separated island-nesting Aleutian geese were genetically more closely related to each other than to mainland-nesting small-bodied geese. The populations of Aleutian geese were genetically differentiated from one another in terms of mitochondrial DNA haplotype and microsatellite allele frequencies, suggesting limited contemporary gene flow and/or major shifts in gene frequency through genetic drift. The degree of population genetic differentiation suggests that Aleutian Canada Goose populations could be considered separate management units. There was some evidence of population bottlenecks, although we found no significant genetic evidence of non-random mating or inbreeding.
10.2307/1370453| Many small passerine species breed earlier after a warm rather than a cold spring (long-term effect), and then start egg-formation after a clear increase in ambient temperature (T
10.2307/1369475|In a Costa Rican population of Montezuma Oropendolas (Psarocolius montezuma), females nested in the dry season (January through May) and males did not help build nests or behave parentally. The length of the nesting period, from nest initiation to fledging, was relatively long (ca. 2.5 months). Approximately one-third of all nests fledged young. Between 19 and 32% of nests fell out of colony trees before fledging, and most of these fell during periods of heavy rain. Females bred colonially, with up to 130 nests (median = 24) in a single tree. In addition, nests were clustered within colony trees: several nests were often built together on a single limb. This behavior appears to be costly, as the clustering of nests caused limbs to break, contributing to the high rate of nest loss. The degree of nesting synchrony was low among nest clusters within the colony, but relatively high within clusters. The overall degree of breeding synchrony within an oropendola colony (SD of nestlining date = 13-25 days) was lower than reported for most monogamous colonial birds, but similar to that reported for other polygynous colonial species. Breeding synchrony within but not among nesting clusters appears to increase the ability of high-ranking male oropendolas to defend or court multiple females.
10.2307/1369760|Parasites have significant effects on the fitness of their hosts. We used an intestinal nematode, Ascaridia galli, as an experimental treatment of young male Red Jungle Fowl (Gallus gallus) to investigate the effect of this parasite on their growth and development through sexual maturity. After treatment, 26% of those fed parasites and 31% of controls became infected. Infected males had lower body mass, lower hematocrit, a higher percentage of lymphocytes among their white blood cells, and smaller combs than uninfected males. Infected and uninfected males did not differ in plasma levels of testosterone (T). The differences between parasitized and unparasitized males persisted from 5 months of age through sexual maturity. The classic example of hormonal action is the effect of testosterone on the comb of male chickens, but the difference in comb length between parasitized and unparasitized male Red Jungle Fowl along with no difference in T suggests that the effect of parasites on male secondary sexual characters does not necessarily involve a change in circulating levels of testosterone.
10.2307/1367027|Foraging behaviors of breeding Ruby-crowned (Regulus calendula) and Golden-crowned kinglets (R. satrapa) in an Arizona mixed-coniferous forest were compared to assess foraging similarity and the use of available habitat components. The species were not significantly different in five of the eight foraging variables examined. Foraging behavior was significantly different (Chi-square test, P < 0.02), for three variables: method of prey attack (Ruby-crowned Kinglet hovered more, Golden-crowned gleaned more), tree species selection (Golden-crowned was more restricted to certain tree species), and relative foraging location (Ruby-crowned used the upper thirds of the trees more frequently). Mean foraging height was similar. Both kinglets differed from a random distribution of use when compared to resource availability for all foraging variables tested (distance from branch tip, selection of tree species, tree height use, foraging height, and relative location). Foraging repertoires of these similar congeners were strikingly alike. Niche theory predicts that two such similar species will modify their foraging behavior to partition the habitat and minimize potential competition. In the case of the kinglets, limited environmental subdivision was demonstrated. Under less favorable habitat conditions, competitive influences may be more important in modifying the foraging behavior of these species.
10.2307/1370185|We examined the diets of two sympatric raptors, Swainson's Hawks (Buteo Swainsoni) and Harris' Hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus), during a prey decline that resulted in lowered reproductive success for both species. Contrary to the predictions of competition theory, diets of the two species did not become more specialized. However, we observed interspecific aggression by Swainson's Hawks, which evidently defended a large territory against Harris' Hawks. We conclude that direct competition for food did not take place between these two hawks because such competition was mediated by competition for territories and the subsequent partitioning of space.
10.2307/1366881|Foraging accounted for over 90% of the activity of two pairs of Chestnut-backed Antbirds (Myrmeciza exsul) during a one month study of their daytime time budgets in the Pacific lowlands of Costa Rica. We also documented in detail their use of territorial space and preference for dense vegetation where foraging was most productive. Our results support previous findings that tropical insectivores may have to devote much effort to foraging and that dense cover is the best microhabitat for foraging by antbirds.
40072327|We studied the diet of the Grayish Saltator (Saltator coerulescens) during the rainy and dry seasons in the Venezuelan llanos and examined its food preferences, digesta retention time, rate of food intake, and digestive efficiency, in captivity. Grayish Saltators fed almost exclusively on plant tissues throughout the year. Fruits and leaves were the most commonly consumed items, comprising 36% and 28% of the diet, respectively, averaged over the entire year. In pairwise choice trials, saltators preferred fruits over leaves and flowers, and wild over cultivated leaves. In the laboratory, saltators displayed food-processing traits typical of frugivorous passerines. When feeding on a fruit (banana mash) diet, they had a fast rate of food passage (digesta mean retention time = 54  26 min) and a relatively low digestive efficiency (average metabolizable energy coefficient = 0.59  0.11), which was compensated for by high rates of food intake (1.4 times body mass). Mean retention time of a leaf-supplemented diet was slightly shorter (average = 45  17 min). Birds maintained or increased their body masses under laboratory conditions when fed on a fruit diet but did not when fed exclusively with leaves. Saltators spent very little time foraging, and the amount of time varied seasonally (5% and 17% of the time in the rainy and dry seasons, respectively). Most of their time (ca. 50%) was dedicated to resting. The morphology of the digestive tract of this species is similar to other frugivorous birds, but the inner edge of the maxilla is serrated. We found no evidence of cellulolytic activity in the Grayish Saltator's gut. Together, all of these characteristics indicate that Grayish Saltators are partial folivores that rely on a "skimming" strategy of food consumption. /// Estudiamos la dieta de Saltator coerulescens durante las estaciones de lluvia y sequa en los llanos de Venezuela y examinamos sus preferencias alimenticias, el tiempo de retencin del alimento, la tasa de ingesta del alimento y la eficiencia digestiva en cautiverio. Los S. coerulescens se alimentaron exclusivamente de tejidos vegetales a travs del ao. Las frutas y hojas fueron los tems consumidos ms comnmente, comprendiendo un 36% y 28% de la dieta, respectivamente, promediado en todo el ao. En pruebas de preferencia pareadas, los S. coerulescens preflrieron frutas sobre hojas y flores, y hojas silvestres sobre cultivadas. En el laboratorio, los S. coerulescens mostraron caractersticas para el procesamiento del alimento tipicas de passeriformes frugvoros. Cuando se alimentaron con una dieta de fruta (pasta de banana) mostraron una rpida tasa de pasaje del alimento (tiempo de retencin promedio del alimento = 54  26 min) y una relativamente baja eficiencia digestiva (coeficiente de energa metabolizable promedio = 0.59  0.11), la cual fue compensada con altas tasas de ingesta de alimento (1.4 veces la masa corporal). El tiempo de retencin promedio de una dieta suplementada con hojas fue ligeramente ms corto (promedio = 45  17 min). En condiciones de laboratorio, las aves mantuvieron o aumentaron su masa corporal cuando fueron alimentados con una dieta de fruta pero no lo hicieron cuando se alimentaron exclusivamente con hojas. Los S. coerulescens pasaron muy poco tiempo alimentndose, y dicha cantidad de tiempo vari estacionalmente (5% y 17% de su tiempo en las estaciones de lluvia y sequia, respectivamente). La mayora de su tiempo (cerca 50%) estuvo dedicado al reposo. La morfologa del tracto digestivo de esta especie es similar al de otras aves frugvoras, pero el borde interior de la maxila es aserrado. No encontramos evidencia de actividad celuloltica en el intestino de S. coerulescens. Todas estas caractersticas indican que los S. coerulescens son parcialmente folvoros que dependen de una estrategia de "skimming" para el consumo de alimento.
10.2307/1369463|We compared food provisioning at nests of two age classes of male American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla). Older male redstarts are more likely to obtain a mate than yearling males. We hypothesized that females actively choose older males as mates because of direct benefits due to increased rates of nestling provisioning. Lack of foraging experience or low food availability on their territories might cause yearling males and their mates to deliver less food to their nestlings. Our results did not support this hypothesis. Nestling provisioning rates did not differ between nests of yearling and older males in number of feeding trips per hour, average load size, estimated mass delivered per hour, nor prey taxa. Direct benefits to the female (at least with regard to nestling provisioning) do not explain why older male redstarts are more likely to obtain a mate. We discuss alternative hypotheses that might explain the lower mating success of yearling male redstarts.
90008054|Continuing human population growth and urbanization in Florida may impact the survival of native birds, including the Florida Mottled Duck (
10.1525/cond.2012.110077|Surveys and banding records of
10.2307/1369719|I examined the flight behavior of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) over a nesting colony in Barnegat Bay, New Jersey in 1997. I used the number of birds flying over the colony to test the hypothesis that there were no differences in flight behavior as a function of presence and type of craft (motor boat, personal watercraft). For the overall model, 66% of the variation in the number of terns flying over the colony was explained by breeding period, type of craft, speed, route (established channel or elsewhere), the interaction of route and speed, and time of day. However, for the early stage of the reproductive cycle, type of craft, speed, and route explained 95% of the variation. Boats that raced elicited the strongest response, as did boats that were outside of the established channel. Boats traveling closer to the nesting colonies elicited stronger responses than those that remained in the channel. Personal watercrafts elicited stronger responses than motor boats. These data suggest that personal watercraft should be managed to reduce disturbance to colonial-nesting species, by eliminating them within 100 m of nesting colonies and restricting speed near such colonies.
10.2307/1369460| We report 90 bird bones representing 18 species from recent excavations at San Josecito Cave, Nuevo Len, Mexico. The new material increases the avifauna of this rich late Pleistocene locality from 52 to 62 species. Eight of the 10 newly recorded taxa are extant; each is either of temperate rather than tropical affinities (such as the American Woodcock Scolopax minor and Pinyon Jay Gymnorhinus cyanocephalus) or is very wide-spread in its modern distribution. The two extinct taxa are a stork (Ciconia sp. or Mycteria sp.) and Geococcyx californianus conklingi, a large temporal subspecies of the Greater Road-runner. In this region of the Sierra Madre Oriental (about lat. 24N, long. 100W, elev. 2,000-2,600 m), the late Pleistocene avifauna was a mixture of species that today prefer coniferous or pine-oak forests/woodlands, grasslands/savannas, and wetlands. As with various late Pleistocene plant and mammal communities of the United States and Mxico, no clear modern analog exists for the late Pleistocene avifauna of San Josecito Cave. 
10.2307/1370455|We observed Common Murres (Uria aalge) at two breeding sites in lower Cook Inlet, Alaska, to determine whether food availability was reflected in their time-budgets at each colony. Catches of forage fish in nets and relative biomass were greater around a murre colony that has been increasing for the past 25 years than around a colony that has been decreasing over the same time period. Murres spent much more time "loafing" on their breeding ledges at the increasing colony, particularly during the incubation period and during evening hours. However, there was little or no difference between colonies in chick feeding rates, chick growth rates, or productivity. It appears that murres at the declining colony devote more time to foraging and have less discretionary time ashore. Because this had little apparent affect on their ability to feed and rear chicks, the population decline must be due to other factors. In any case, attendance time-budgets provide a more sensitive index of food availability than other breeding parameters at murre colonies.
10.2307/1367440|Sixty-four extramarital copulations were observed from 1976-1978 in a nesting colony of Little Blue Herons (Florida caerulea). In almost all cases the male and female involved had paired and the female had not completed egg-laying. Extramarital copulations occurred at the female's nest site; the intruding male nested nearby. All but one of the extramarital copulations occurred when the paired male was away from the nest site. The paired male, when present, and the female supplanted intruding males. However, once mounted, the female's extramarital copulatory behavior was passive, similar to that with her mate. This apparent lack of resistance may not have been cooperative but rather a way to reduce reproductive failure due to the egg loss that sometimes occurred during extramarital copulations. Overall, extramarital copulations occurred relatively infrequently, owing to: (1) the nest-guarding behavior of the pair male, and (2) the uncooperative behavior of the female.
3247780| We investigated relationships between warbler abundance and survival rates measured on a Puerto Rican wintering site and rainfall patterns measured on the wintering site and in regions where these warblers breed, as estimated using stable-isotope analysis (D) of feathers collected from wintering birds. We banded birds using constant-effort mist netting from January 1989-2003 in the Gunica Forest of southwestern Puerto Rico. Black-and-white Warblers (Mniotilta varia), American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla), and Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapilla) dominated the Neotropical migrant capture totals each winter, with resulting sample sizes large enough to estimate survival rates. Estimates of capture probability from survival modeling allowed us to estimate abundance from mist-netting capture totals for Black-and-white Warblers and Ovenbirds. Stable-hydrogen isotopes showed that the three focal species came mostly from the eastern United States. Black-and-white Warbler abundance was related to rainfall total deviations from normal in Gunica Forest, and Ovenbird abundance was related to total annual rainfall in the United States. Survival models with rainfall covariates were weakly supported overall, but apparent survival of Black-and-white Warblers and American Redstarts was negatively related to rain during the first 6 months of the year at Gunica, and Ovenbird survival was related to rainfall during the spring in the southeastern U.S. Abundance and apparent survival exhibited similar, species-specific patterns of association with rainfall for Black-and-white Warblers and Ovenbirds. Winter rainfall was important to demographic parameters of Black-and-white Warblers, and breeding-season rain was important to Ovenbirds. /// Investigamos las relaciones entre la abundancia y las tasas de supervivencia de parlidos residentes de invierno en Puerto Rico y los patrones de precipitacin de los sitios invernales y de las reas de anidacin, stas ltimas deducidas a partir del anlisis de istopos estables (D) en plumas colectadas de las aves migratorias. Las aves fueron capturadas y anilladas utilizando redes de niebla en el Bosque de Gunica en el suroeste de Puerto Rico durante el mes de enero, desde 1989 hasta el 2003. Las especies de aves neotropicales con mayor nmero de capturas totales durante cada invierno fueron Mniotilta varia, Setophaga ruticilla y Seiurus aurocapilla, con un tamao de muestra lo suficientemente grande como para estimar sus tasas de supervivencia. La estimacin de las probabilidades de captura a partir de los modelos de supervivencia nos permitieron evaluar la abundancia utilizando datos de capturas totales para Mniotilta varia y Seiurus aurocapilla. Los istopos de hidrgeno estable mostraron que las tres especies de aves focales provinieron principalmente de la regin Este de Estados Unidos. La abundancia de Mniotilta varia estuvo relacionada a las variaciones totales de precipitacin en el Bosque de Gunica y la abundancia de Seiurus aurocapilla estuvo relacionada a la precipitacin anual total en los Estados Unidos. Los modelos de supervivencia con covariables de precipitacin tuvieron muy poco respaldo. Sin embargo, la supervivencia aparente de Mniotilta varia y Setophaga ruticilla estuvo relacionada negativamente a la precipitacin durante los primeros seis meses del ao en Gunica y la supervivencia de Seiurus aurocapilla estuvo relacionada a la precipitacin durante la estacin de primavera en el sureste de Estados Unidos. La abundancia y la supervivencia aparente mostraron patrones de asociacin similares y especficos para cada especie con la precipitacin para Mniotilta varia y Seiurus aurocapilla. La precipitacin de invierno fue un factor importante para determinar los patrones demogrficos de Mniotilta varia y la precipitacin durante la temporada de anidacin tambin fue un factor significativo para Seiurus aurocapilla. 
4500969| Introduced feral populations offer a unique opportunity to study the effects of social interaction and founder effects on the development of geographic variation in learned vocalizations. Introduced populations of Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus) have been growing in number since the 1970s, with a mixture of isolated and potentially interacting populations. We surveyed diversity in contact calls of Monk Parakeet populations in Connecticut, Texas, Florida, and Louisiana. Contact call structure differed significantly among the isolated populations in each state. Contact call structure also differed significantly among potentially interacting nest colonies in coastal Connecticut, and these differences did not follow a geographic gradient. Limited dispersal distances, founder effects, and social learning preferences may play a role in call structure differences. /// Las poblaciones introducidas que se han naturalizado ofrecen una oportunidad nica para estudiar la influencia de las interacciones sociales y del efecto fundador sobre el desarrollo de la variacin geogrfica en las vocalizaciones aprendidas. Las poblaciones introducidas de Myiopsitta monachus han aumentado desde los aos setenta, y actualmente existe una mezcla de poblaciones aisladas y poblaciones que podran estar interactuando. En este estudio, examinamos la diversidad de las llamadas de contacto de poblaciones ubicadas en Connecticut, Texas, Florida y Louisiana. La estructura de las llamadas de contacto difiri significativamente entre las poblaciones aisladas en cada estado. La estructura de dichas llamadas tambin difiri significativamente entre colonias de nidificacin que potencialmente podran interactuar en la costa de Connecticut, y las diferencias observadas no siguieron un gradiente geogrfico. Las distancias de dispersin reducidas, los efectos de fundador y las preferencias sociales del aprendimiento podran jugar un papel en generar las diferencias en la estructura de las llamadas. 
10.2307/1369387| Although geographic variation in coloration and morphology of Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) is thought to be slight, a sedentary species restricted to a particular habitat across a broad geographic range may be expected to exhibit some geographic differentiation. I analyzed seven morphometric and five plumage coloration characters on 1,531 study skins from across the species' geographic range. Dividing the specimens examined into 25 population samples, I found highly significant geographic differences in most of the characters analyzed, including clinal patterns and discrete differences in both morphometric and plumage characters. Patterns of geographic differentiation in the two character sets were not significantly concordant. It is possible to identify seven geographic units within the species, each of which is diagnosable based on combinations of discrete and continuous character states. /// A pesar de que se ha pensado que la variacin geogrfica en el Carpintero Arlequn (Melanerpes formicivorus) es mnima, se puede esperar que una especie sedentaria y restringida a un hbitat particular que se distribuye sobre un rea de distribucin muy amplia, mostrar diferenciacin en alguna escala geogrfica. En este trabajo, se analizaron siete caracteres morfomtricos y cinco de coloracin del plumaje en 1,531 especmenes de toda el rea geogrfica de la especie. Se encontr variacin geogrfica significativa en la mayora de los caracteres analizados, incluyendo patrones clinales y diferencias discretas entre poblaciones. Basndose en estos patrones, es posible identificar siete unidades geogrficas en la especie, cada una diagnosticable con estados de caracteres discretos. 
10.2307/1366887|The Hawaiian Dark-rumped Petrel (Pterodroma phaeopygia sandwichensis), or 'Ua'u, is an endangered gadfly petrel that nests in the Hawaiian Islands and ranges throughout the central Pacific. The species was once common in Hawaii with large colonies located on all the main islands, but its numbers have recently been reduced to several small relict populations. Over 85% of the breeding birds known today nest in and around Haleakala National Park on the island of Maui, the site of a three-year study begun in 1979. I studied the breeding biology, behavior, and conservation needs of this poorly known species using specially designed event recorders and a closed circuit television system employing a night vision scope. The study also documented variations in the birds' reproductive success that occurred naturally and as a result of varying levels of predation by introduced mammals. Predation is the primary threat to the birds' survival, so if it can be controlled, the remaining populations should thrive.
10.2307/1368355|We studied nest-site preferences of Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) in the Zuni Mountains of western New Mexico and used multivariate analyses of the nest cavity, nest tree, and surrounding woody vegetation to ask if and then how the birds select nest sites. Significantly reduced variance in used compared to unused sites for both cavity/nest-tree and vegetation data indicates that the used sites are a nonrandom subset of the source pool (i.e., the birds are selective). Preferred cavities are modal in the source pool, but preferred vegetation is characterized by low shrub density, high canopy height, and high importance of mature Pinus edulis. Preferred vegetation characteristics appear more limited than preferred cavity/nest-tree characteristics. Nest sites have fewer shrubs in front of than behind the cavity entrance. This is consistent with the species' habit of flying at shrub level upon approaching and leaving the nest. The suggestion that Flammulated Owls have increased in abundance with increasing vegetative density is not supported.
10.2307/1368646| The Juan Fernandez Petrel (Pterodroma externa externa) and Stejneger's Petrel (P. longirostris) are respectively confined as a breeding race and a breeding species to Isla Alejandro Selkirk in the Juan Fernandez archipelago. The mixed upland colony of the two species was mapped and the density assessed by quadrat methods. The 1985-1986 world breeding population of the two species was estimated as 1,131,000  209,000 pairs, comprising 1,000,000 pairs of P. e. externa and 131,000 pairs of P. longirostris. Predation by introduced cats fell disproportionately on the smaller P. longirostris. Both species bred in the southern summer, laying in late December and early January. Incubation spells were lengthy averaging about 3 weeks. In other respects the petrels' breeding biology was typical of Pterodroma species. 
10.1525/cond.2012.100053|In some conservation situations, there is a need for estimates of numbers of seabirds migrating past a specific site, such as sites of proposed offshore wind farms. Migration counts from points strategically located on the coast can be a reliable and effective method of reaching this goal. We propose a consistent and statistically robust method for estimating such numbers by generalized additive modeling of the numbers passing during periods when counts are interrupted. This procedure has the advantage of accounting for the effects of covariates, such as wind, on the counts in a flexible manner, potentially increasing accuracy and precision. We develop a reliable method of estimating precision, based on a parametric bootstrap, and applied a sensitivity analysis to our models to test their accuracy. We demonstrate the method with three species of seabirds migrating through the Strait of Gibraltar. Estimated numbers of the Northern Gannet (
10.1525/cond.2013.120146|Hosts of brood parasites may have not developed antiparasitic defenses either because host and parasite are recently sympatric or because costs of potential defenses outweigh their benefits. We studied antiparasitic defenses of the Brown-and-yellow Marshbird (
10.2307/1367377| Red-capped Manakins (Pipra mentalis) and Golden-collared Manakins (Manacus vitellinus), two species of small, frugivorous, tropical passerines, showed facultative hypothermia and reduced oxygen consumption at night. The lowest body temperature measured in M. vitellinus (30.5C, when the ambient temperature was 19.5C) represents a reduction of more than 40% in the difference between body temperature and ambient temperature. Under these circumstances, a reduction of more than 40% in the rate of oxygen consumption would also occur during the period of regulated hypothermia. Even moderate hypothermia at ambient temperatures typical of the lowland tropics substantially reduces the energy expenditure of a resting bird. 
10.2307/1367881|Ruddy Turnstone (Arenaria interpres) flocking behavior, aggression, vigilance, prey choice, foraging rate, and foraging success were examined in relation to tidal fluctuations and food distribution on a Pacific beach in Costa Rica. Turnstones foraged only when the tidal flat was exposed; they rested in flocks during high tide. Flock size, peck rate, and success rate decreased during the ebb and increased with the flood. Foraging velocity increased until low tide and then decreased. Vigilance was related only to flock size and flock size did not affect foraging rates or success. Vigilance apparently did not directly reduce foraging efficiency or deter flock breakup. Increased aggression, however, decreased foraging efficiency, and may have partly caused reduction in flock size. Turnstones fed on invertebrates close inshore and on crabs farther out on the flat, where the latter were more abundant. Rates of predation on crabs were correlated with crab density, decreased foraging rate, and success. The switch in the birds' diet and the substrate zonation appeared to be largely responsible for the tidally and spatially correlated patterns in foraging rate. Possibly the nature and distribution of the prey influenced the turnstones' levels of aggression and hence, determined the optimal sizes of their flocks.
10.2307/1369383|I determined daily energy requirements of captive Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) and their metabolizable energy coefficients (MECs) for three fish species: channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus), gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum), and bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus). Ad libitum intake ranged from 264 to 503 g bird
10.1525/cond.2013.120118|On the western coast of North America, several estuaries provide shorebirds with important winter and stopover habitat. These habitats include not only aquatic estuarine resources but also adjacent upland agricultural lands. The extent to which shorebirds use estuarine vs. upland habitats at these stopover sites is difficult to quantify but crucial to designing strategies for their conservation. We measured stable isotopes (
4151031| We present data suggesting that Northern Wheatears (Oenanthe oenanthe leucorhoa) breeding in West Greenland and Canada may be able to accomplish migration to their wintering grounds in West Africa in one direct, transatlantic crossing of more than 4000 km (great circle distance). This conclusion is based on analyses of wing lengths, body weights, and timing of departure from West Greenland and arrival on an island 350 km off the coast of Morocco. Previously, it has been suggested that Nearctic wheatears migrate to Africa by a two-step journey, the first leg comprising a shorter transatlantic crossing to western Europe. A long, direct flight has previously been considered unfeasible as the predicted flight costs were considered to be too high. However, recent insights in aerodynamic theory make these long ocean crossings appear more feasible, especially when taking the use of tailwinds into account. /// Presentamos datos que sugieren que los individuos de Oenanthe oenanthe leucorhoa que cran en el oeste de Groenlandia y Canad pueden ser capaces de migrar a sus sitios de invernada en el oeste de Africa en un solo vuelo transatlntico directo de ms de 4000 km (distancia del crculo mayor). Esta conclusion est basada en el anlisis del largo de las alas, el peso corporal y el tiempo entre la partida desde el oeste de Groenlandia y el arribo a una isla a 350 km de la costa de Marruecos. Previamente, se ha sugerido que los individuos nerticos de 0. o. leucorhoa migran a frica en un vuelo con dos etapas, en el que la primera etapa corresponde a un vuelo trasatlntica ms corto hacia el oeste de Europa. Un nico vuelo largo y directo ha sido previamente considerado como inviable, ya que se ha predicho que el costo del vuelo serla demasiado alto. Sin embargo, hallazgos recientes en teorla aerodinmica hacen que estos vuelos ocenicos largos parezcan ms viables, especialmente considerando el uso del viento de cola. 
40072395|We examined patterns of nest site occupancy in male House Sparrows (
10.2307/1370421|We stored blood samples of Eastern Phoebes (Sayornis phoebe) in a lysis buffer ("QLB") that has been used successfully to preserve blood samples of many other species. We found that although samples from adults were not affected greatly, samples of nestling blood stored for more than a few days did not reliably produce the quantity and quality of DNA useful for multi-locus DNA fingerprinting. We also were unable to extract usable DNA from blood samples collected from Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus) nestlings, but obtained usable DNA from blood of Least Flycatcher (Empidonax minimus) nestlings stored for more than a year. We recommend that anyone planning DNA research with tyrant flycatchers should conduct their DNA extractions as soon as possible after collection. A pilot study to test methods of storage, preservation, and extraction may be necessary before beginning a large-scale project.
10.2307/1369214|We examined assortative mating behavior in 149 pairs of Merlins (Falco columbarius) breeding in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada from 1985 through 1990. Yearlings paired with yearlings and adults (2-plus years old) paired with adults more frequently than expected. Among adult pairs, however, there was no significant assortment by age. The productivity of pairs which included a yearling member was significantly lower than that of pairs with two adult birds. Similarly, pairs with two adults hatched their young on average nine days earlier than pairs with at least one yearling. There was no significant assortment of pairs based on body size with the exception of tail length. Along with differences in the timing of breeding activities, one other possible proximate mechanism promoting the distinction between adults and yearlings when choosing a mate was the difference in plumage between adult and yearling males.
10.2307/1367754|Observations of radio-tagged Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) indicated that individual males and females engage in extended associations through the breeding season. Persistent courtship by males directed at particular females and extended time spent together by certain males and females suggests that cowbirds form pair bonds. When individuals of the pair are together, females are more likely to initiate departures than males, and males are more likely to follow their mates after they depart. These observations suggest that pair bonds are being maintained by males. There were four cases of monogamy, as well as two bigamous and at least one trigamous relationship in the local population. Radio-tracking data showed that the range of a male encompassed most or all of that of his mate(s). The mating system of this population is compared with those of other populations in an attempt to assess factors influencing the diversity of cowbird mating systems. We suggest that cowbird mating systems may be influenced by both the sex ratio of the population as well as the habitat in which populations are found.
10.2307/1370141|We estimated local annual survival of 1,051 individually color-banded Dunlin (Calidris alpina) at Bolinas Lagoon, California from 1979 to 1992. Resighting rates for birds banded as adults varied significantly among years, and resighting rates for first-year birds varied by sex and year. No significant differences in local survival rates were found between males and females in any age classes. First-year birds had lower local survival rates than adults. We suspect that raptor predation accounted for much of this difference and other variation in survival rates. Adult Dunlin had lower local survival rates in the year of capture than in subsequent years. Variation in resighting of some groups of individuals including transient Dunlin may account for some differences. However, capture and release of Dunlin may induce short-term behavioral changes that increase the risk of depredation by avian predators within the first few days after capture.
90008467|Proliferation of invasive plants in forest understories throughout North America has prompted restoration efforts focused on removal of invasive vegetation. Although the negative impacts of invasives on native plant communities are well documented, effects on forest bird communities remain largely unknown. To address this issue, we examined the response of avian communities to invasive plants in forest fragments across 4 counties in northeastern Illinois, a region characterized by extensive urbanization. We surveyed breeding bird communities in 46 forest plots representing a gradient in abundance of invasive woody plants. We quantified vegetation structure and composition within plots, as well as landscape context. Exotic trees and shrubs were present on all but 3 plots. Although native trees were common, native species represented <7% of total stem density of shrubs. Measures of invasion were weakly correlated with those representing urbanization, yet broad-scale measures of urbanization such as building density and urban cover were strongly associated with avian community structure. At finer scales, measures of invasion were important predictors of the relative abundance of birds in several nesting and foraging guilds. Shrub nesters showed a positive response to invasive vegetation, whereas the relative abundance of aerial salliers and ground nesters decreased with increased proportions of invasive trees. Because restoration strategies aimed at the complete removal of invasive shrubs could diminish habitat quality for some species, thinning of understory vegetation or the removal of invasive trees may confer the greatest benefits to avian communities when few native understory plants are present.
1370122| We examined the reproductive behavior of Mountain Quail (Oreortyx pictus) in two ecologically different regions of Oregon. We used radio-telemetry to locate 57 Mountain Quail nests and determine breeding behavior and incubation patterns. Mountain Quail appeared socially monogamous and displayed few alternative reproductive strategies; only one bird renested and no birds produced consecutive clutches. Twenty-five of 57 nests were incubated exclusively by males, 30 by females, and two by birds of undetermined sex. We observed no nest switching, and males and females had similar clutch and brood sizes. Males brooded chicks, frequently without female assistance. Within six radio-marked pairs, males and females simultaneously incubated separate nests <200 m apart. The average production by females was 22 eggs (range 19-26) with a mean clutch size of 11 eggs (range 7-15). Simultaneous multiple clutches may enhance the reproductive potential of a species when environmental conditions limit double brooding or renesting, and may increase the likelihood that some broods will survive high levels of nest and brood predation. /// Examinamos el comportamiento reproductivo de Oreortyx pictus en dos regiones ecolgicamente diferentes de Oregon. Utilizamos radiotelemetra para localizar 57 nidos de O. pictus y para determinar el comportamiento reproductivo y los patrones de incubacin. O. pictus result ser socialmente mongamo y mostr unas pocas estrategias de reproduccin alternativas; slo un ave volvi a nidificar y ningn ave produjo nidadas consecutivas. Veinticinco de 57 nidos fueron incubados exclusivamente por machos, 30 por hembras y dos por aves de sexo indeterminado. No observamos intercambio entre nidos y tanto hembras como machos tuvieron nidadas y cras de tamaos similares. Frecuentemente los machos criaron a los polluelos sin la asistencia de las hembras. Considerando seis parejas marcadas con transmisores, hembras y machos incubaron simultneamente nidos separados por <200 m. La produccin promedio por hembra fue de 22 huevos (rango entre 19-26), con un tamao promedio de nidada de 11 huevos (rango entre 7-15). Las nidadas mltiples simultneas pueden aumentar el potencial reproductivo de una especie cuando las condiciones ambientales limitan la doble cra o la re-nidificacin y aumentar la probabilidad de que algunas crias sobrevivan, dados los altos niveles de depredacin de nidos y cras. 
10.2307/1367076|The effects of brood parasitism by the dwarf race of the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater obscurus) on the nesting success of the Abert's Towhee (Pipilo aberti) in the lower Colorado River valley were studied. The frequency of cowbird parasitism varied significantly with time of season. The laying season of cowbirds paralleled that of migratory songbirds, but began a month later than that of the sedentary Abert's Towhee. After an influx of breeding cowbirds, 44% of towhee nests were parasitized. Egg ejection by adult cowbirds caused towhee clutches to decline significantly from a laying average of 2.9 eggs to 1.7 eggs at hatching. The probability of nesting success declined from 0.278, before cowbirds arrived on the breeding grounds, to 0.046 for all parasitized nests. The lack of a significant difference between daily mortality rates of nonparasitized nests before and after cowbirds started breeding indicated that the reduced success of late towhee nests was primarily due to cowbird parasitism. The success of cowbird eggs in towhee nests was also low, suggesting that towhees may not be favorable hosts.
10.1525/cond.2011.110025|Species distribution modeling is valuable for assessing rare or elusive species and in landscapes where accessibility is limited, such as agricultural lands. While birds' local habitat associations are often well known, knowledge of broad-scale relationships and the spatial patterns of environmental factors is generally lacking. In this study, we develop and validate a predictive habitat model for the King Rail (
4151022| Foraging strategies of nonbreeding seabirds attending colonies remain virtually unknown. Here we report the results of a satellite telemetry study of nonbreeding Buller's Albatrosses (Thalassarche bulleri) from the Snares island group south of New Zealand in 2000-2001. Two 6- to 7-year-old prebreeding birds dispersed to Tasmania, Australia, from late May until at least late July. Six older birds (five prebreeding birds, one former breeding adult) all adopted a dual strategy of short trips (mean duration 1.3 days, mean foraging range 129 km) and long trips to southern New Zealand (9.6 days, 871 km) or Tasmania (22.0 days, 1918 km). Time allocation to short trips increased with age and experience (both sexes) and nest-site attendance (males), and decreased during the guard (when the chick is attended) and late postguard (chick left unattended) stages (females). Up to the guard stage, most birds present at their colony on consecutive days foraged overnight (mean foraging range 101 km). Nonbreeding birds used the same foraging areas as breeding adults, but allocated more foraging time to short trips during the corresponding incubation period and early postguard stage, and to long trips during the guard stage. Results suggest that prebreeding birds explore foraging areas sequentially, and increase their time ashore by progressing from making only long trips, to introducing short overnight trips, to modifying the duration of and allocation between long and short trips. Changes in body mass recorded on Solander Island (160 km north of the Snares) show that experienced nonbreeding birds initiate long foraging trips to regain mass lost during short trips, and suggest that less frequent short trips (and hence fewer returns ashore) among inexperienced birds are related to less efficient foraging during long trips. /// Las estrategias de forrajeo de las aves marinas no reproductivas que viven en colonias permanecen virtualmente desconocidas. En este trabajo presentamos los resultados de un estudio de telemetra satelital de individuos que no cran de la especie Thalassarche bulleri de las islas Snares al sur de Nueva Zelanda, llevado a cabo en los aos 2000 y 2001. Dos aves que an nunca se haban reproducido de 6 a 7 aos de edad se dispersaron a Tasmania, Australia, desde finales de mayo hasta al menos finales de julio. Seis aves de mayor edad (cinco aves pre-reproductivas y un adulto que cri anteriormente) adoptaron una estrategia dual de viajes cortos (duratin media de 1.3 das, rango medio de forrajeo de 129 km) y viajes largos hacia el sur de Nueva Zelanda (9.6 das, 871 km) o Tasmania (22.0 das, 1918 km). La asignacin de tiempo a los viajes cortos increment con la edad y la experiencia (para ambos sexos) y con la presencia en el nido (para los machos), y disminuy (para las hembras) durante los perodos de guardia (cuando el pichn es atendido) y de post-guardia tarda (cuando el pichn es dejado sin atencin). Hasta el perodo de guardia, la mayora de las aves prsentes en sus colonias en das consecutivos forrajearon durante la noche (rango medio de forrajeo de 101 km). Las aves pre-reproductivas usaron las mismas reas de forrajeo que las aves reproductivas, pero asignaron ms tiempo de forrajeo a los viajes cortos durante el perodo que corresponde a la incubacin y al perodo temprano de post-guardia, y a los viajes largos durante el perodo de guardia. Los resultados sugieren que las aves pre-reproductivas exploran reas de forrajeo de modo secuencial e incrementan su tiempo fuera de la costa de modo progresivo desde hacer slo viajes largos, a introducir viajes cortos durante la noche, a modificar la duracin y la asignacin entre viajes largos y cortos. Los cambios en la masa corporal registrados en la Isla Solander (160 km al norte de las Snares) muestran que las aves no reproductivas experimentadas iniciaron viajes de forrajeo largos para recuperar el peso perdido durante los viajes cortos, y sugieren que la menor frecuencia de viajes cortos (y por ello menos regresos mar adentro) en las aves inexpertas se relaciona con una menor eficiencia de forrajeo durante los viajes largos. 
90008460|Tracking the movements of migratory songbirds poses many challenges because much of their journey takes place at night. One promising technique for studying migratory birds relies on microphones to record the nocturnal flight calls produced by birds on the wing. We compared recordings of night flight calls with bird-banding data in a southern Great Lakes ecosystem. We collected &#x003E;6,200 hr of nocturnal recordings at 7 locations around Lake Erie. We detected &#x003E;60,000 flight calls from migratory birds and classified 45,775 calls to species level or to a bioacoustic category comprising several species with similar calls. We compared these acoustic data with records of 5,624 birds captured in mist nets. We found that acoustic recordings accurately quantified the magnitude of migration; comparison with mist-net data revealed significant positive correlations between the number of acoustic detections and the number of mist-net detections across species. We also found that acoustic recordings accurately quantified the timing of migration; we found significant positive correlations between the date of passage of the 10th, 50th, and 90th percentiles of the populations of up to 25 groups of passage migrant species in the acoustic data and mist-net data. A careful examination of 6 species with distinctive flight calls revealed only subtle seasonal differences between peak detections via acoustic monitoring and mist netting, at both daily and weekly timescales. This research enhances our understanding of the role that acoustic sampling can play in monitoring migratory birds, providing important empirical support for the validity of night-flight-call monitoring.
10.2307/1369136| Loons (Gavia spp.) were counted during the Alaska-Yukon Waterfowl Breeding Population Survey from 1971 to 1993 and the Arctic Coastal Plain Waterbird Breeding Population Survey from 1986 to 1993. Population indices for Alaska (not corrected for visibility bias) are presented by species for boreal forest, tundra, and both habitats combined. Minimum mean population estimates (1977-1993) with 95% confidence intervals were 15,360 (2,235) Red-throated Loons (G. stellata), 69,498 (5,596) Pacific Loons (G. pacifica), 8,886 (843) Common Loons (G. immer) and 2,636 (614) Yellow-billed Loons (G. adamsii). Populations of Pacific, Common and Yellow-billed Loons did not change significantly between 1977 and 1993, whereas Red-throated Loons declined by 53% to a 1993 level of 9,843 (2,447) (r<sup>2</sup>=0.65, P < 0.001). Factors affecting results from aerial surveys are discussed. 
10.2307/1370447|We studied foraging behavior and habitat use of male and female Black-throated Gray Warblers (Dendroica nigrescens) to quantify the effects of temporal variation on interpretations of avian resource use. Overall, both sexes primarily foraged by gleaning in single-leaf pinyon pine (Pinus monophyla); however, within-season and between-year variation in behavior and habitat use were found for both sexes. Warblers increased use of shrubs from May to mid-June, and decreased use of shrubs and increased use of pinyon pine from mid-June through August, during each year. Use of sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) and Utah juniper (Juniper osteosperma) varied between years. Sex differences were found in proportional use of foraging maneuvers. Within-season shifts in plant species and habitat use corresponded to changes in arthropod numbers on the plant species used by the warblers, but between-year shifts in behavior did not correspond as closely with changes in arthropod numbers. Temporal variation in microhabitat use resulted from shifts within seasons in the plant species used for foraging, which was associated with temporal changes in food abundance. Our results also demonstrate the importance of considering the effects of temporal scale in studies of bird-resource interactions.
10.2307/1369755|We studied the behavior of five Gray-hooded Flycatcher (Mionectes rufiventris) males on their display territories which were part of a dispersed lek located in a lowland Atlantic rain forest in southeast Brazil. The lek was active from the end of the short dry season in August to the following January. The number of territory-holding males fluctuated between four and nine. Calls were the main form of long-distance advertisement by males on display territories. These calls predominated in the morning, which corresponded to the period of greatest vocal and display activity by males. Aggressive "wiib" notes predominated in the afternoon. Call rate, which may affect mating success, varied among males. The lek behavior of the Gray-hooded Flycatcher showed similarities to and important differences from such behavior in the Ochre-bellied (M. oleagineus) and McConnell's Flycatchers (M. macconnelli).
10.2307/1369510|The Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) is a widely distributed member of Idaho's sagebrush (Artemesia tridentata) rangeland avifauna. During 1991-1993, we studied the breeding ecology and nesting locations of the species in this semi-arid habitat. Most loggerhead nests (65%) were constructed in sagebrush, although bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata) and greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus) were also used frequently. Height of nest shrubs averaged 162 cm (range: 89-297 cm), and the mean height of nests was 79 cm (range: 33-160 cm). Nest variables we measured did not differentiate successful from unsuccessful nests. Significant differences, however, distinguished the three primary nest shrubs: sagebrush shrubs used for nesting tended to be smaller than bitterbrush or greasewood shrubs. Nonetheless, nest height was nearly identical regardless of shrub species, and nest success was independent of nest shrub. The low nesting heights for the loggerhead in this sagebrush-scrub habitat represent a notable departure from nesting heights in many parts of the species range, although they may be typical for the species where it occurs in the southwest. The preservation of Idaho's sagebrush rangelands will be important to the long-term survival of this species in the state.
10.2307/1369788|We used a new immersion monitor to study the foraging movements of two species of albatrosses that nest in the Hawaiian Islands. The monitors showed that breeding male Black-footed Albatrosses (Phoebastria nigripes) land on the water more frequently during the day than at night. Breeding male Laysan Albatross (Phoebastria immutabilis) behavior was more variable and also showed a diurnal bias. We found no evidence of a nocturnal foraging bias in either species; in particular, these species do not seem to be limited to live capture of nocturnally available squid. Such squid may, nonetheless, contribute to the diet as a result of scavenging.
1370686| I studied the relationships among energy availability, female visitation rates, and male display rates in Broad-tailed Hummingbirds (Selasphorus platycercus). Feeders contained 10%, 20%, or 30% sucrose solutions; female visitation rates and male hummingbird display rates were measured. Display rates of male Broad-tailed Hummingbirds and visitation rates of females depended on the quality of the food source. The fact that male display rates matched female visitation rates provides further evidence that dive displays play a role in courtship. More work needs to be done to determine if the relationship between resource quality, female visitation, and male display rates shows a threshold contingent on food availability. /// Evalu las relaciones entre la cantidad de energa disponible, la tasa de despliegues de cortejo por parte de los machos y la tasa de visita por parte de las hembras en Selasphorus platycercus. Para los comederos utilic soluciones de agua azucarada en concentraciones de 10%, 20%  30%, y med las tasas de visita de las hembras y de despliegues de cortejo de los machos en cada perodo de observacin (1 hora por perodo). Las tasas de cortejo de los machos y de visita de las hembras dependieron de la calidad de los recursos alimenticios. El hecho de que las tasas de despliegue de los machos se relacionaran directamente con las tasas de visita de las hembras indica la importancia de los despliegues de cada libre durante el cortejo en esta especie. Se necesitan ms investigaciones para determinar si la relacin entre la calidad de recursos alimenticios, las visitas de las hembras y las tasas de despliegue presenta un lmite relacionado con la disponibilidad de alimento por encima del cual la forma de esta relacin se modifica. 
10.1525/cond.2013.110185|Coastal urban environments provide a potentially diverse source of food for gulls, including items of marine, terrestrial, and anthropogenic origin. Our objective was to examine variation in the diet and use of feeding habitat of four species of gulls, the Laughing (
10.2307/1369398|Bar-tailed Godwits (Limosa lapponica) partially molt contour feathers before flying to their subarctic breeding grounds. This molt starts in February on the West African wintering grounds, is suspended in late April before the flight to the staging sites in western Europe, and is continued by more than half of the birds during their stage in May in the Dutch Wadden Sea. During molt the appearance of the plumage changes from the dull grey of a winter plumage to an intense rusty-red in males and a beige-rufous in females with a complete breeding plumage. The total mass of the plumage remains the same. Molt is scheduled earlier and is more intense in males than in females. The duration of contour feather growth on the Dutch staging area is estimated to be 12 days, leading to an estimated daily dry feather production of 0.09-0.13 g/day. On the Dutch staging area molting individuals of either sex had a more complete breeding plumage than non-molting birds and were always heavier. Very few birds started molt in the last 12 days before northward departure indicating that time provides a critical constraint on the occurrence of molt. Although the extra costs of molt are estimated at only 7% of the costs of the simultaneous energy storage, the site-related difference in the mass of molting individuals suggests that the decision to molt depends also on nutritional factors. We argue that in view of the tight time/energy schedules faced by these long-distance migrant godwits, only individuals which have sufficient energy/nutrient reserves for the time of the year due to better feeding or flying performances, can afford to upgrade their plumage on the staging areas. The extent and quality of the breeding plumage could thus provide males as well as females with an indicator of the migratory, and possible concomitant, qualities of potential mates.
10.1525/cond.2010.090204|Distance sampling along a line transect is used commonly for monitoring changes of birds' abundance at sea. A critical yet rarely tested assumption of line-transect-sampling theory is that all birds along the transect line (i.e., directly in front of the boat) are detected or that probability of detecting a bird on the line can be estimated. As part of a long-term research and monitoring program for the Kittlitz's Murrelet (
10.2307/1368833|I censused forest canopy birds from two emergent trees in lowland wet forest in Costa Rica from April 1985 to May 1986. Composition of the canopy avifauna did not differ overall between census sites. I recorded 89 species and 2,944 individuals during 49 censuses. Forest canopy was dominated by frugivores, especially large-bodied (> 100 g) frugivores, and parrots. Furthermore, in contrast to the avifauna of forest canopies in Panama and Peru, I found that the canopy avifauna was primarily composed of forest species, rather than scrub species. Most species occurred in intra- or interspecific flocks. I found that the abundance of small frugivores and small insectivores was seasonally variable. Extent of seasonal variation in fruit crop sizes of Dipteryx panamensis may have contributed to the annual variation observed in psittacids. Avifauna of the forest canopy, with few exceptions, was distinct from the understory avifauna; few of the common understory species were recorded in the canopy. Further, in contrast to the canopy avifauna, the understory avifauna was dominated, in terms of species number, by insectivores.
10.2307/1368758|Breeding success and antipredator behavior of Greater Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis apricaria) and Eurasian Dotterels (Charadrius morinellus) were studied in Norway over seven summers in an area 1,200 to 1,350 m altitude. Behavior was recorded in a standardized manner on nest inspections, on approaching parent birds with chicks, and by observing reactions to overflying predators on scheduled observation bouts. Red foxes (Vulpes vulpes), Common Ravens (Corvus corax), and Mew Gulls (Larus canus) were the most important nest and chick predators in the area. Nest predation was calculated from exposure time. During incubation both species either sneaked away from the nest when approached by a human (golden-plovers at a much larger distance than dotterels) or sat tightly and flushed at a short distance giving distraction display. "Sneaking" had a positive effect on nest survival, and ground distraction displays had a better effect on nest survival than flight distraction displays. After hatching, golden-plover parents exposed themselves to an approaching human at several hundred meters distance by loud alarm calls and by encountering the intruder, whereas dotterels kept unobtrusive until approached to about 40 m, and upon further approach finally gave distraction displays on the ground. Avian predators at a longer distance (>300 m) from nest or chicks at most aroused alertness, while at close quarters (<50 m) they induced golden-plovers to squat flat, while dotterels exposed themselves by "tail-flagging." Nest loss was greater for golden-plovers (78%) than for dotterels (47%), while chick loss was greater for dotterels (65%) than for golden-plovers (28%). The difference in nesting success and antipredator behaviors is discussed in terms of greater detectability in golden-plovers than dotterels, and of biparental (golden-plover) versus uniparental (dotterel) care.
10.2307/1366995|Hanson (1962) suggested that late winter weight loss of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) is a normal situation in which geese enter a refractory period that later facilitates rapid weight gain during vernal migration. To examine this hypothesis, winter weight dynamics, grain intake, and indices of physical and reproductive condition were compared for 13 caged Canada Geese maintained on three feeding schedules: (1) ration unlimited January through 11 May; (2) ration restricted during January/February but unlimited thereafter; and (3) ration restricted throughout the trial but quantity increased progressively from March through May. Geese fed freely did not reduce their intake during late winter, but maintained food consumption and gained weight from January through April. The data suggest that late winter weight loss in these geese is not necessitated by endogenous factors, but instead reflects food availability and ambient conditions. Weight loss in February or March does not elicit rapid weight gain in April. Reduced intake in January and February ultimately had little effect on breast and organ weights, carcass lipid and protein, and indices of reproductive potential. However, the reproductive potential of two females kept on restricted intake through May possibly was affected, as indicated by lighter ovary weights, with fewer and smaller follicles.
10.1525/cond.2010.090155|The major forces of food and predation shape fitness-enhancing decisions of birds at all stages of their life cycles. During the breeding season, birds can minimize nest loss due to predation by selecting sites with a lower probability of predation. To understand the environmental and social aspects and consequences of breeding-site selection in prairie birds, we explored variation in nest-survival patterns of the Lark Bunting (
10.1525/cond.2010.090098|Events in one season can have carryover effects on birds in a subsequent season. Little research has addressed how conditions where a bird winters influence it during migration. We investigated such carryover effects on Magnolia Warblers (
10.2307/1369180|We investigated egg-laying in captive European starlings, Sturnus vulgaris, with moderate differences in food availability. From February-March onwards, experimentally food-rationed (FR) birds got 80% of the food ration of an ad libitum fed control (AL-FR) group, which led to a reduction in body mass and activity, and a redigestion of feces. FR birds showed less courtship behavior than AL-FR birds, and did not start laying until their food ration was increased to 90%, during the second half of the breeding season. Fewer FR than AL-FR females started laying. Among those that did, body mass was 6-7 g lower than that of AL-FR females throughout courtship, laying and incubation. No differences in clutch size, egg mass and egg composition were found. Compared to the AL-FR birds, mean laying date was 11-14 days earlier in ad libitum fed (AL) starlings that had no visual contact with FR birds. Initiation of egg-laying in FR starlings apparently was triggered by increased food availability, whereas that of AL-FR starlings may have been delayed because of the near absence of breeding activity among the FR birds with which they were in visual contact.
10.2307/1368676| The diving behavior of Adlie Penguins, Pygoscelis adeliae, was investigated near Syowa Station during December 1986, with time-depth recorders attached to nesting birds caring for 2- to 3-week-old chicks. Three of four recorders were recovered 150-334 hr after attachment. Most (98%) of the 587 dives recorded were less than 20 m in depth and 40% occurred between 16:00 and 20:00. Mean depths ranged from 6.1-10.9 m and maximum depth was 16.9-26.8 m. Mean and maximum dive durations were 1.4-1.9 min and 2.7-4.0 min. Ninety-seven percent of dives occurred in 44 diving bouts that averaged 25.3 min and 12.9 dives per bout. Descent and ascent rates during dives were similar in 88% of dives, meaning that the penguins dived at low angles, averaging 5. 
10.2307/1367658|Foraging bouts of male Swainson's Hawks (Buteo swainsoni) were observed using radio-telemetry to determine the effect of plant cover on the selection of foraging sites. Home ranges consisted of varying amounts of cultivated and uncultivated habitats. Cultivated fields were the most abundant and they supported large amounts of prey, but were not hunted until crop harvest reduced the density of their plant canopy. A negative correlation between estimates of plant cover and foraging suggested that habitat differences such as vegetative cover were of greater importance than prey density in the selection of hunting sites. A correlation between foraging and prey biomass after it had been adjusted for vegetative concealment indicated that models relating prey abundance with raptor foraging should consider the effect of such a habitat difference on the availability of a hunting site's food supply.
10.2307/1369858|Fleshy fruits occur in many colors in nature, but red and black predominate. One popular hypothesis to explain the adaptive significance of fruit coloration is that it attracts frugivorous birds that disperse seeds. We presented Silvereyes (Zosterops lateralis), important fruit consumers in southern Australia, with choices in the aviary between both artificial fruits (made from gelatin) and actual fruits (Rhagodia parabolica) of three different colors (red, yellow and white). Silvereyes exhibited a strong overall preference for red among both artificial and real fruits. Although individual birds varied in their color preferences for artificial fruits, all preferred the red fruits of R. parabolica. The consumption rate of real fruits was much greater than that of artificial fruits, which was probably attributable to differences in the characteristics of the two fruit types. Exposure of Silvereyes to a maintenance diet of a particular color for 12 days also failed to alter their collective preference for red fruits. Further, responses to artificial infructescences offering color choices either between or within infructescences showed that Silvereyes preferred red fruits regardless of the spatial format of presentation. The overall fruit color preferences of Silvereyes were based on selection of hue rather than brightness, but within the same hue, some individuals exhibited preferences for particular brightness levels. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that fruit color is related to avian frugivory and suggest that birds can act as strong selective agents on fruit color.
4151089| Declines in avian populations highlight a need for rigorous, broad-scale monitoring programs to document trends in avian populations that occur in low densities across expansive landscapes. Accounting for the spatial variation and variation in detection probability inherent to monitoring programs is thought to be effort-intensive and timeconsuming. We determined the feasibility of the analytical method developed by Royle and Nichols (2003), which uses presence-absence (detection-nondetection) field data, to estimate abundance of Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) per sampling unit in agricultural fields, grassland, and prairie dog habitat in eastern Colorado. Field methods were easy to implement and results suggest that the analytical method provides valuable insight into population patterning among habitats. Mountain Plover abundance was highest in prairie dog habitat, slightly lower in agricultural fields, and substantially lower in grassland. These results provided valuable insight to focus future research into Mountain Plover ecology and conservation. /// Las disminuciones en las poblaciones de aves resaltan la necesidad de implementar programas rigurosos de monitoreo de gran escala para documentar las tendencias de las poblaciones en especies que se encuentran a bajas densidades en paisajes amplios. Se cree que realizar correcciones para tener en cuenta la variacin espacial y la variacin en la probabilidad de deteccin requiere de mucho esfuerzo y tiempo. En este estudio determinamos la factibilidad del mtodo analitico desarrollado por Royle y Nichols (2003), que utiliza datos de presencia y ausencia (deteccin y no deteccin) recolectados en el campo para estimar la abundancia de Charadrius montanus por unidad de muestreo en campos agrcolas, pastizales y ambientes ocupados por perros de las praderas en el este de Colorado. Los mtodos de campo fueron fciles de implementar, y los resultados sugieron que este mtodo analtico provee informacin valiosa en cuanto a los patrones poblacionales en los distintos hbitats. La abundancia de C. montanus fue mxima en los ambientes ocupados por perros de las praderas, un poco menor en campos agrcolas y sustancialmente menores en pastizales. Estos resultados proveen informacin bsica que resulta valiosa para enfocar las investigaciones futuras sobre la ecologa y conservacin de C. montanus. 
40072464|In forests, high-severity burn patcheswherein most or all of the trees are killed by fireoften occur within a mosaic of low- and moderate-severity effects. Although there have been several studies of postfire salvage-logging effects on bird species, there have been few studies of effects on bird species associated with high-severity patches in forests that have otherwise burned at lower severities. From 2004 to 2006, we investigated the foraging presence or absence of three woodpecker species, the Black-backed (
10.1525/cond.2011.100045|We studied habitat use of disturbed coastal forest by communities of North American migrant and Cuban resident land birds on Cayo Coco, Cuba. This region is subject to a growing resort industry, yet the ecological effects of this disturbance remain largely unknown. Using mist-nets, we sampled birds during two early winters and one late winter. We sampled at sites adjacent to coastal resorts, and at a distance of up to 5.7 km from resorts, in three habitat types (mixed mangrove, semi-deciduous, and coastal scrub forests). We tested for differences in abundance and richness at sites near and far from resorts and among the three habitat types. We also assessed whether bird distribution was associated with fruit abundance and/or vegetation characteristics. Across seasons, migrants were consistently more abundant at sites near resorts than at sites more distant, whereas richness of Cuban residents was consistently higher at sites near resorts than at those farther away. Neither abundance nor richness of the resident guild varied significantly by habitat. The distributions of neither migrants nor residents were correlated with fruit abundance. High foliage density associated with greater edge habitat provided the strongest explanation for high estimates of abundance and richness of migrants and residents near resorts. Our results suggest that moderately disturbed forests near resorts can support abundant and rich communities of both migrants and residents.
10.2307/1367755|Ovarian development followed by regression occurred in Yellow-throated Sparrows (Gymnorhis xanthocollis) that were kept on short daily photoperiods of 8 hr (8L:16D) for eight weeks and were then exposed to long days (15L:9D). No ovarian growth occurred if they were kept on 8L:16D. This species did not exhibit ovarian growth on normal day lengths at Varanasi, India, until they experienced the increasing day lengths of summer. When Yellow-throated Sparrows were exposed to photoperiods between 6-20 hr/day for 35 days, ovarian growth did not occur unless day length was 12 or more hr/day. Our results indicate that female Yellow-throated Sparrows are photoperiodic and that annual changes in day length are responsible for ovariogenesis. Photoperiod is not apparently responsible for seasonal changes in body weight in this species.
10.2307/1369468| The foraging behavior and nestling diet of Chestnut-backed Chickadees (Parus rufescens) was studied during the breeding season (March-May) in a Monterey pine (Pinus radiata) plantation, 1991-1992. Adult birds spent 79% (7.1 SD) of their foraging time on Monterey pine as a result of prey availability. The majority of this time was spent perch gleaning and hang gleaning prey from the outer needles of the upper tree crown. Nestling diet was composed of approximately 43% Monterey pine sawfly larvae (Acantholyda burkei, Hymenoptera: Pamphiliidae) and 17% tree camel crickets (Gammarotettix bilobatus, Orthoptera: Rhaphidophoridae). Both insects feed upon Monterey pine foliage. Spiders and individual Homoptera, Hemiptera, Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Diptera species comprised the remaining 40% of the diet. Monterey pine serves as an important foraging resource for Chestnut-backed Chickadees during the breeding season and may have contributed to the range expansion and population increase of this species in the San Francisco Bay region. 
10.2307/1367248|Twenty-two fledgling Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) raised by nine host species were monitored between leaving the nest and independence. The objectives were (1) to record as much as possible about the fledgling period, especially those features that enable cowbirds to become independent, (2) to determine if fledglings behaved differently with different hosts, and (3) to determine if fledgling cowbirds possess adaptations for brood parasitism. Cowbirds usually left the nest when 10 or 11 days old, first fed themselves when 20 to 22 days old, and became independent when 25 to 39 days old. They went through three stages--inactive, active, and superactive--differentiated by how often they flew and by other behavior. General development was probably unmodified by hosts. Perching heights and home ranges of fledglings were modified in a host-specific manner. Cowbirds perched mainly at the hosts' foraging heights, and their home ranges corresponded to their hosts' territories; both are related to feeding efficiency. Cowbirds did not recognize hosts as individuals; they generally responded positively only to their host species. Hosts fed fledgling cowbirds more than they fed an equivalent weight of their own young. The loud, persistent calling of fledgling cowbirds may cause them to be fed more and is probably their main adaptation for brood parasitism.
10.2307/1370476|The trade-off of food return against predation risk was quantified for winter flocking White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys), and the effect of intraspecific aggression on this trade-off was tested. Feeding bowls, containing a 1-L sand/seed mixture, were placed at three distances from cover. Control treatments (equal seed densities at each bowl) were compared with experimental treatments (higher seed densities farther from cover). More birds fed farther from cover when associated food return was higher, but age-classes responded differently to treatments. On average, dominant adults fed closer to cover than subordinate immatures, even when higher reward was available farther from cover. As predicted if risk of social interaction influences the food return--predation risk trade-off: (1) immatures switched their feeding location more readily than adults and (2) when the reward differential among bowls was especially large, adults shifted to feed farther from cover, and displaced immatures towards the bowl closer to cover. White-crowned Sparrows traded-off food return against predation risk, and this trade-off was influenced by the risk of social interaction such that subordinates were willing to risk higher predation if the risk of social interaction was thereby reduced.
10.2307/1366889|Inter- and intraspecific prey robbery (piracy) attempted by wintering Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was quantified during 1978-1979 and 1979-1980 near Lock and Dam 19, Mississippi River. Eagles robbed fish from conspecifics and seven other avian species. Interspecific piracy was successful in 55% of 65 attempts, whereas only 8.1% of 273 intraspecific piracy attempts were successful. I did not detect age-specific differences in the ability to rob or retain fish, but immature eagles made more attempts than adults. Eagles possessing large fish were more often attacked by pirates than birds with smaller fish; and large fish were more frequently relinquished. Immature eagles showed no preference for robbing a particular age class, but adults were more likely to rob other adults than immature birds. Opportunistic piracy appeared to be the optimal feeding method of immatures.
10.1525/cond.2011.100245|Establishing migratory connectivity between migratory birds' breeding, wintering, and stopover sites is an important component of their effective conservation and management. For neotropical migrants, geographic origins and migration patterns have been poorly documented. During fall migration of 2009, we identified geographic origins of the Veery (
10.1525/cond.2013.120127|The Dunlin (
10.2307/1370143| We studied the chronology and success of nesting Spectacled Eiders (Somateria fischeri) along the lower Kashunuk River on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta from 1991-1995. Nest initiation dates ranged from 16 May-22 June. Median nest initiation dates were correlated with the break-up of ice on the Kashunuk River. Clutch sizes declined seasonally, and mean clutch size varied among years ranging from 4.8-5.6 eggs. The frequency of nests containing inviable eggs (24% of successful nests, x = 0.6 unhatched eggs per successful nest) did not differ among years or nest initiation dates, and may be related to exposure to contaminants. The rate of partial depredation also did not vary among years or initiation dates (23% of nests, x = 0.5 eggs taken/successful nest). We detected no effect of marking or visitation on daily survival rate of nests. Nests initiated early in the year were more successful than late nests; thus, early nesting females laid larger clutches and were more likely to nest successfully than late nesters. Nest success varied among years and declined from 73% in 1991 to 18% in 1994. Nest success increased to 76% in 1995 when we reduced the Mew Gull (Larus canus) population on the study area. While inviability and partial depredation averaged over 1 egg per successful nest, the production lost in nests that were abandoned or completely destroyed by predators was much greater. Our data indicate that Spectacled Eiders nesting on our study area experience relatively high production; however, without information regarding annual survival and recruitment. it is not possible to draw conclusions about population growth rates. 
10.2307/1370317|We tested the ability of sound recordings relative to that of point counts to estimate species richness in the Tambopata Reserve in southeast Peru. We tested the effect of two environmental factors (estimated richness and presence of noisy species) and two attributes of species (abundance and foraging height) on estimates of species richness made by point counts and sound recordings. Sound recordings are preferred to point counts when richness is high, as during the dawn chorus, because they allow for repeated listenings. Point counts are more effective than sound recordings at detecting rarely heard species. The presence of noisy species at a station had no effect on the relative ability of the two methods to measure species richness. The foraging height of a species had no effect on its relative detectability by either method. Sound recording was found to be a suitable alternative to point counts for estimating species richness and a preferable alternative under some circumstances.
10.2307/1368300|We examine the hypothesis that avoidance of predation on the nest can select for within-season breeding dispersal, as it does for between-season breeding dispersal. Only five studies have adequately tested this hypothesis against a null hypothesis, e.g., that dispersal is more likely to occur following a failure than following a successful nesting attempt, and all support at least one of the predictions of the predation-avoidance hypothesis. We also find support for the hypothesis in Prairie Warblers (Dendroica discolor): late-cycle losses resulted in a greater probability of dispersal. Two alternative hypotheses may explain within-season breeding dispersal: dispersal to permit more rapid renesting and dispersal to avoid depleted resources. Neither is supported in Prairie Warblers. Only one of the five earlier studies has tested either alternative. Although there is a clear need for further testing of all of these hypotheses the rather limited existing data do suggest that predation-avoidance is important in establishing within-season patterns of breeding dispersal.
10.1525/cond.2010.090194|Hatchlings use egg teeth to help break through the shell during hatching, but these structures could have an additional function of increasing nestlings' visibility. I investigated the size, color, and persistence of egg teeth in woodpeckers, which nest in dark cavities. Many species of woodpecker have two egg teeth, one each on the tip of the maxilla and of the mandible, which, together with the pale flanges, frame the open mouth when nestlings gape. A spectrometer confirmed that reflectance of Northern Flicker (
90008441|For species with precocial young, survival from hatching to fledging is a key factor influencing recruitment. Furthermore, growth rates of precocial chicks are an indicator of forage quality and habitat suitability of brood-rearing areas. We examined how growth and fledging rates of Piping Plover (
10.2307/3247719| For 1979-1990, I compared satellite-based sea surface temperature anomaly data for Washington's outer coast with the annual number of nests of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) and Brandt's Cormorants (Phalacrocorax penicillatus), and the number of Common Murres (Uria aalge). Sea surface temperatures were a minimum of 1C above average for at least four consecutive months during three periods: January-April 1981, February-June 1983, and September 1987-February 1988. The first warm event was not associated with El Nio, while the second and third warm episodes were the results of a severe (1982-1983) and more moderate (1987) El Nio events. Numbers of the three seabird species were significantly negatively correlated with the intensity and occurrence of these warm events, although the effects of the 1981 event were not clear-cut. Cormorant nesting was depressed during El Nio and post-El Nio years. Differences in response of the two cormorant species may be related to differences in their breeding chronologies. In 1983, murres crashed to 13% of pre-1983 levels. With the exception of 1987, numbers remained at this level through 1990. The interpretation of ENSO effects on murres is complicated by several types of human disturbance. 
10.2307/1369481| Many techniques for assessing lipid reserves have been used, but techniques are seldom evaluated. We evaluated five common methods (fat scoring, regression residuals of body mass vs. morphological measurements, quotients of body mass divided by morphological measurements, total body electrical conductivity, and water content) for assessing lipid reserves in the Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) in Rhode Island. Lipid content ranged from 3 to 11%, water content ranged from 64 to 72%, and fat score ranged from 0 to 4. Mean total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) was moderately correlated with lean body mass. Percentage water and fat score were highly correlated with extracted lipid mass and percentage lipid content. Body mass, tail  mass regression residuals, and quotient of body mass/tail length were highly correlated with lean body mass. Morphological measurements were correlated with lean mass only when in association with body mass, but not considered alone. Combining TOBEC readings with body mass and morphological measurements produced regression models with similar predictive abilities as previous studies using TOBEC, but TOBEC provided little or no additional predictive ability. TOBEC did not significantly improve body fat predictive models and does not appear accurate in predicting lipid mass of individual small birds. Fat score and percentage water are useful indices of body fat in Wood Thrush. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110057|For birds, risk of nest predation can vary within a breeding season, but few data exist that explain why such variation occurs. We investigated intraseasonal variation of nest survival of the Acadian Flycatcher (
10.2307/1369146|To investigate how the morphology of the gut is related to diet and body size, several dimensions of the digestive tract were obtained for 34 species of passerines from Costa Rica and Pennsylvania. Measurements included the length and diameter of the intestine, length and width of the stomach, thicknesses of the muscle, mucosa, and koilin layers of the stomach, thicknesses of the muscle and mucosa layers of the intestine, number per cross section and length of intestinal villi, and diameter of the lumen of the intestine. In addition, the total absorbtive surface area of the intestine was estimated from several primary measurements. Correlations and regression coefficients based on phylogenetically independent contrasts for the lengths of the stomach and intestine did not differ significantly from those based on original measurements. The absorbtive surface area of the intestine and the thicknesses of the muscular and mucosal layers of the intestine were related to the 0.6-0.7 power of body mass; other measurements exhibited allometric constants close to 0.3. Further analyses were based upon residuals of measurements about allometric regressions. Correlation and principal components analysis revealed positive correlations among intestine length, stomach length, and stomach width, and negative correlations between intestinal diameter and villus length, on one hand, and the thickness of the stomach (muscle and mucosa), on the other. Discriminant analysis based on residuals of gut measurements separated species placed in three diet groups: insect, mixed insect and fruit, and mixed insect and seed. Insectivores were distinguished from species with mixed diets by having smaller but heavier-walled stomachs and smaller intestines. Fruit-eaters were distinguished from seed-eaters primarily by having thicker-walled intestines.
1370607| During 1995-1998 we studied the dynamics of nesting dispersion in a population of 160-200 Red-necked Grebes (Podiceps grisegena) on Lake Osakis, a large, windblown lake in central Minnesota. Breeding grebe pairs arriving on the lake were highly attracted to several large floating cattail (Typha angustifolia) mats that had broken off and drifted away from the mainland to become "islands" snagged within rooted emergent beds. These mats provided prime nesting habitat protected from waves and predators that was chosen by nearly 40% of the breeding population. Most pairs establishing nests on the islands averaged 5-10 simultaneously active neighbors within 50 m, compared to pairs that established territories along the shoreline, most of which had no neighbors within 50 m. The overall success of the two strategies varied widely from year to year, depending on the water levels, nesting habitat availability, timing of windstorms, and predator activity. During most years, however, pairs that established nests on the mats hatched earlier in the season and had larger clutches and broods. The dense mats appeared to provide protection from wind and wave action, the primary cause of early nest loss. Our blood analysis work showed no genetic structure of the population and no tendency for neighbors to be closely related. However, pairs often returned to the same area and type of nesting situation in subsequent years. The behavioral flexibility of Red-necked Grebe pairs to nest in groups within prime habitat areas may enable them to breed successfully within unpredictable emergent wetland habitats. /// Entre 1995 y 1998, estudiamos la dinmica de dispersin de nidos en una poblacin de 160-200 zambullidores Podiceps grisegena en Lake Osakis, un lago grande afectado por el viento ubicado en Minnesota central. Las parejas de zambullidores que arribaron al lago fueron muy atraidas a varios parches flotantes de Typha angustifolia que se haban separado de la costa convirtindose en islas. Estos parches representaron el mejor hbitat de nidificacin (protegido de las olas y los depredadores), y fueron escogidos por cerca del 40% de la poblacin reproductiva. La mayora de las parejas que establecieron sus nidos en las islas tuvieron en promedio 5-10 vecinos activos simultneamente a menos de 50 m, en comparacin con las parejas que ubicaron sus nidos a lo largo de la costa, la mayora de las cuales no tuvieron ningn vecino a menos de 50 m. El xito general de las dos estrategias vari ao a ao, dependiendo de los niveles de agua, la disponibilidad de hbitat de nidificacin, el momento de ocurrencia de tormentas de viento y la actividad de los depredadores. Sin embargo, durante la mayora de los aos, las parejas que ubicaron los nidos en los parches flotantes tuvieron nidadas que eclosionaron ms temprano, nidadas ms grandes y un mayor nmero de nidadas. Estos parches densos parecieron conferir proteccin ante la accin del viento y las olas, las causas principales de la prdida temprana de nidos. Nuestros anlisis de muestras de sangre no mostraron estructura gentica en la poblacin, ni una tendencia a que los individuos vecinos estuvieran estrechamente relacionados. Sin embargo, las parejas a menudo regresaron a la misma rea y la misma situacin de anidacin en aos subsecuentes. La flexibilidad comportamental de las parejas de P. grisegena para anidar en grupos en las reas con mejor hbitat les podra permitir reproducirse exitosamente en hbitats de humedales emergentes e impredecibles. 
10.2307/1369178|We examined nest-site and nest-cavity characteristics for six species of cavity-nesting birds in montane riparian and snowpocket aspen (Populus tremuloides) woodlands in the northwestern Great Basin. Live trees and snags with DBH >24 cm were favored as nest sites by all species. Red-naped Sapsuckers (Sphyrapicus nuchalis) and Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) provided different sizes of nest cavities for a suite of nonexcavator species. Flickers preferentially nested in snags; sapsuckers nested primarily in live trees, but used live trees and snags in proportion to their availabilities. Relative abundances of excavators and nonexcavators were associated positively with numbers of cavities. Nest-site variables overlapped extensively among species; Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) relied heavily on sapsuckers for provision of nest cavities, European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and Mountain Bluebirds (Sialia currucoides) primarily used flicker-excavated cavities, and House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) used nest cavities across the broadest range of nest-site characteristics. Compass orientation of nest-cavity entrances was strongly bimodal, with most facing east or southwest. Cavity entrances of species that foraged largely outside of riparian woodlands were oriented toward woodland edge, in contrast to nest cavities used by species that foraged largely within riparian woodlands. Snowpocket woodlands were much more extensive than riparian aspen, but birds strongly preferred riparian aspen stands as nesting habitats, presumably due to the scarcity of large aspen in snowpockets. Nest cavities appear to be a limiting resource with high potential for interspecific nest-site competition in these woodlands. Decades of livestock overuse and fire suppression have greatly diminished the availability of large aspen in riparian habitats throughout the region.
10.1525/cond.2011.100167|After a bird's molt is complete, the coloration of its plumage may be altered by external factors such as soiling. We tested how exposure to sunlight affects plumage coloration derived from carotenoid pigments and feather nanostructure. We studied these changes in the Blue-tailed Bee-eater (
10.2307/1369102|We studied brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) in a strongly fluctuating island population of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia). One to three cowbird females visited the island daily to search for host nests in 13 of 16 study years. Individual cowbirds visited on more days and laid more eggs at high sparrow densities, but some factor, perhaps aggression by territorial female cowbirds, limited cowbird numbers at high sparrow densities. Female cowbirds exhibited natal and breeding philopatry. Individual cowbirds laid about every other day on average, began to lay well after sparrows in most years, and avoided laying two eggs in the same nest. Cowbirds rarely laid after hosts had completed laying, and their eggs hatched as often as host eggs. Parasitism rates increased with host age, probably because of age-related differences in host behavior. Cowbirds removed a host egg from two-thirds of parasitized nests, and damaged two per cent of remaining host eggs. Parasitism reduced production of fledgling sparrows per nest by 0.79, but only by 0.27 fledglings in years when food was added experimentally to some territories. Nests failed more often during incubation in years with than without parasitism, supporting our earlier suggestion that cowbirds destroy eggs in host nests to enhance future laying opportunities. Colonization of Mandarte Island by cowbirds had little effect on sparrow numbers because of: (1) incomplete overlap in laying seasons; (2) multiple broods in sparrows; (3) functional and numerical responses of cowbirds to host density; (4) the sparrows' ability to rear their young with young cowbirds; and (5) density-dependent host reproductive success.
10.2307/1367441|The Ruby-crowned Kinglet (Regulus calendula) was studied from October-April during four years, 1975-1979, among six major plant communities in the riparian corridor of the lower Colorado River valley. Kinglets were most abundant in cottonwood-willow and least abundant in arrowweed. Within each community, the greatest density of kinglets generally occurred in areas of tall, dense vegetation. Density differed significantly among the four years in November, the month of peak abundance, and in February, winter's end. Populations decreased significantly through the winter in each year and decreases were not uniform among plant communities. Differences in relative abundances and winter population decreases were related to winter weather conditions. During the study period, kinglets were subject to marked seasonality as determined by decreases in average monthly minimum temperatures, changes in tree phenology, and changes in insect abundance and biomass. Kinglet responses to seasonality were most apparent in population dynamics, distribution among plant communities, foraging substrate utilization and choice of prey. Analysis of these data emphasizes the selective importance of the nonbreeding season ecology to kinglets and implies that these birds may be winter-limited.
10.2307/1367812|The evolution, differentiation, and present distribution of the Carbonated Flower-Piercer (Diglossa carbonaria) superspecies were apparently greatly affected by Pleistocene glacial cycles. Populations of the six principal morphotypes are now largely allopatric, although secondary contact occurs in northern Peru (aterrima and brunneiventris) and northwest Bolivia (brunneiventris and carbonaria). A narrow zone of hybridization between brunneiventris and carbonaria occurs northeast of La Paz, Bolivia. The presence of hybrid-like individuals in allopatric populations from eastern Bolivia (carbonaria), Colombia (humeralis), and Venezuela (gloriosa) may be due to past genetic contact and not to present introgression from nearby forms. The forms aterrima, humeralis, and nocticolor are closely related and conspecific (D. humeralis). The form gloriosa is a distinct allospecies (D. gloriosa). The Colombian population of brunneiventris is subspecifically distinct from the nominate form. The forms brunneiventris and carbonaria are closely related, but assuming the existence of a partial isolating mechanism between them, should be recognized as allospecies (D. brunneiventris and D. carbonaria). I present a model of speciation that accounts for the disjunction of similar phenotypes. I propose that differentiation in isolation occurred in a number of high Andean forest refuges during Pleistocene glacials and interglacials, and that dispersal and genetic contact occurred with altitudinal changes in timberline forest at the beginnings and terminations of glacial periods.
10.2307/1369366|Using a technique for observing sperm storage tubules (SSTs) in whole-mount preparations of oviduct tissue, we estimated the number and length of SSTs across 20 species of passerine birds in seven subfamilies. The average number of SSTs per female varied nine-fold across the species examined and was correlated positively with body mass and relative egg size, suggesting that much of the interspecific variation in the number of SSTs may be a consequence of allometry. However, after controlling for body mass, the number of SSTs per female was also negatively correlated with the average length of SSTs and we suggest this pattern could result from selection for greater sperm length when access to sperm storage sites is limited by females. SST length varied eight-fold across the species examined but unlike the number of SSTs, SST length was not correlated with body mass. Instead, SST length was strongly and positively correlated with sperm length, suggesting a history of coevolution between male gametes and sperm storage sites in females that is independent of body size. Neither mating system nor any of four other morphological variables (testis length, oviduct length, clutch size, sperm storage capacity) was consistently correlated with either the number or size of SSTs. Variation between species in the potential for sperm layering within an SST, however, indicates that the pattern of sperm precedence (i.e., the pattern of paternity relative to mating order) may vary from species to species. We propose that a conflict of interest between the sexes with respect to sperm storage could lead to an arms race between sperm length and SST length and may help explain both the diversity in sperm storage patterns among species and the influence of sperm storage on the evolution of mating behavior in birds.
10.2307/1367350|We investigated the locations of Gila Woodpecker (Melanerpes uropygialis) nest sites in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona. A significantly greater proportion of saguaro cacti in arroyos had woodpecker holes than did those on hillsides, ridgetops or desert flats. Saguaros used for nest-hole excavation were taller and more likely to have branches than randomly chosen saguaros. Both active and inactive nest holes were nonrandomly oriented, with the mean vectors of orientation being in northwesterly directions. Variation in nest-hole orientation probably is not due to seasonal differences in excavations because the orientation of spring active (late March) nest holes was not significantly different from that of inactive holes. Some variation in nest-hole orientation is attributable to the structure of the saguaros.
4096540|The analysis of stable-hydrogen isotope ratios in feathers
10.2307/1370136|I examined the relationship of habitat and nest microhabitat features of Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla) and Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) to brood parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) in central Missouri. In old field habitats, Indigo Buntings were more frequently parasitized than Field Sparrows, but Indigo Buntings nesting in forested habitat were parasitized at higher frequencies than buntings in old fields. Logistic regression models showed that nest concealment best explained parasitism for all Indigo Buntings and field-nesting Indigo Buntings, with poorly concealed nests more likely to be parasitized. However, side concealment was not related to parasitism for heavily-parasitized Indigo Buntings in forested habitats. Microhabitat variables did not explain parasitism at Field Sparrow nests, but their nests were lower and better concealed than field-nesting Indigo Buntings. Results suggest that nest microhabitat features may influence probability of parasitism, but species and habitat characteristics may override microhabitat in explaining frequency of parasitism.
10.2307/1367215|The behavior and spread-winged postures of Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) were examined at a communal roost near Superior, Arizona, from April-June, 1979. The temporal occurrence of wing-spreading during the morning pre-departure period was positively correlated with the intensity of the sun's rays, but was independent of the ambient low overnight temperature. Wing-spreading was more common when vultures were wet than when they were dry. Turkey Vultures appear to spread their wings for at least two reasons: (1) to dry feathers, and (2) to ameliorate the thermal gradient between themselves and their environment, although the two functions are not mutually exclusive. Spreading the wings to realign feathers or to increase the mobility of ectoparasites seems unlikely.
10.2307/3247732|Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) are presumed predators of sunflower (Helianthus annuus) in the northern Great Plains. Their esophageal contents varied temporally and among three provinces and three states in relation to regional agricultural bases but males contained more sunflower and small grains than females whereas females contained more weed seeds and insects than males. The diets of both sexes frequently included insects but insects comprised only a small proportion of the total dry weight of esophageal contents. In north-central North Dakota, sunflower represented about 50% of the esophageal contents of males in spring and fall but comprised less than 20% of the female diet. Small grains comprised about 25% of the female diet in all seasons and about 40% of summer diet of males. Insects represented about 50% of the diet of females until mid-summer when insects were largely replaced by weed seeds.
10.2307/1370452|We describe reproductive characteristics of Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos) breeding in Denali National Park, Alaska during an entire snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) cycle, 1988-1997. Data on nesting eagles were collected at 58 to 72 nesting areas annually using two aerial surveys. Surveys were conducted during the incubation period to determine occupancy and nesting activities and late in the nestling period to count nestlings and determine nesting success. Annual occupancy rates of nesting areas did not vary significantly, whereas laying rates, success rates, and mean brood size varied significantly over the study period. Fledgling production for the study population varied sevenfold during the ten-year period. Laying rates, mean brood size, and overall population productivity were significantly correlated with abundance of cyclic snowshoe hare and Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus) populations. Reproductive rates of Golden Eagles in Denali were similar to those of Golden Eagles from other high latitude study areas in North America, but lower than for Golden Eagles from temperate zone study areas in North America.
10.2307/1368078|The Hawaiian honeycreepers (Drepanidinae) known as akepas (Loxops sensu stricto), long regarded as comprising a single polytypic species, are best regarded as two species. The Akepa (L. coccineus) has representatives on Hawaii (L. c. coccineus), Maui (L. c. ochraceus), and Oahu (L. c. wolstenholmei). The Akekee (L. caeruleirostris) is restricted to Kauai. Potential isolating mechanisms include differences in male coloration (red in Akepa, yellow with black face in Akekee), degree of sexual dichromatism (striking in Akepa, slight in Akekee), bill size, shape, and color (smaller and gray or yellow vs. heavy and blue) nest placement (cavities vs. open branches), and vocalizations. The two respond differentially to playback of each other's songs. The little-known Maui and Oahu forms may also warrant recognition as full species.
4151029| To assess the extent of West Nile virus (WNV) exposure of migrating (Marin Headlands) and wintering (Central Valley) hawks in California, plasma from 271 Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), 19 Red-shouldered Hawks (B. lineatus), and 30 Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) was tested for WNV antibodies during the winter of 2004-2005. WNV antibodies were found in of migrating and 15 of wintering Red-tailed Hawks, 20 of migrating and 58 of wintering Red-shouldered Hawks, and 13 of migrating Cooper's Hawks. No individuals demonstrated visible signs of WNV illness. Red-tailed Hawks that tested positive for WNV antibodies displayed no difference from Red-tailed Hawks without WNV antibodies in weight to wing chord ratio or white blood cell counts. In the Central Valley, WNV antibodies were significantly more prevalent in Red-shouldered Hawks than in Redtailed Hawks. Significantly more Red-tailed Hawks sampled on wintering grounds tested positve for WNV antibodies than Red-tailed Hawks sampled during migration. /// Con el fin de determinar el grado de expositin al virus del Nilo occidental (VNO) de halcones migratorios (en los Cabos de Marn) y halcones invernales en California (Valle Central), se analizaron plasma de 271 Buteo jamaicensis, 19 Buteo lineatus y 30 Accipiter cooperii para encontrar anticuerpos del VNO durante el invierno de 2004-2005. Se encontraron anticuerpos del VNO en el 5% de los individuos migratorios y en el 15% de los individuos invernales de B. jamaicensis, en el 20% de los individuos migratorios y en el 58% de los individuos invernales de B. lineatus y en el 13% de los individuos migratorios de A. cooperii. Ningn halcn mostr seales de la enfermedad del VNO. Los individuos de B. jamaicensis que resultaron positivos para anticuerpos del VNO no mostraron diferencias con los individuos de B. jamaicensis que no presentaron anticuerpos en el cociente entre el peso y el largo del ala o en el conteo sanguineo de glbulos blancos. En el Valle Central, la prevalencia de los anticuerpos del VNO fue significativamente mayor en B. lineatus que en B. jamaicensis. El nmero de individuos de B. jamaicensis que resultaron positivos para anticuerpos del VNO fue significativamente mayor en los sitios de invernada que durante la migracin. 
10.2307/1370479| The southern llanos of Venezuela are tropical wet savannas distinguished by a severe flood-drought alternation throughout the year. I analyzed the seasonal variation in use of habitat, foraging behavior and diet exhibited by the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) in response to the changing conditions of this environment. With the beginning of the rainy season, streams and lagoons overflowed and inundated extensive marshes, which became the preferred foraging sites for storks. Amphibians and aquatic invertebrates proliferated in these flooded areas and accounted for half of the food consumed; the remaining half was composed of fish. The Wood Stork population was dispersed over the widely inundated area, and individuals foraged solitarily or in small groups. Groping and foot-stirring were the most common foraging behaviors. These patterns changed gradually with the cessation of rains. Shallow marshes dried up rapidly and became inadequate as feeding sites. Wood Storks then formed large foraging aggregations in the few ponds and lagoons that still kept water, where they foraged by groping together in close proximity. Fish accounted for more than 99% of the diet of Wood Storks during the dry season. /// Los llanos inundables de Venezuela son sabanas tropicales hmedas caracterizadas por una marcada alternancia inundacin-sequa a lo largo del ao. Se analizaron las variaciones estacionales exhibidas por el Gabn (Mycteria americana) en cuanto a seleccin de hbitat, comportamiento alimentario y dieta, como respuesta a las condiciones cambiantes del medio. Con la llegada de las primeras lluvias, los caos y lagunas se desbordaron inundando los esteros, que se convirtieron en los hbitats ms frecuentados por los Gabanes. Los anfibios e invertebrados acuticos proliferaban en estas reas inundadas y constituyeron la mitad de la dieta consumida, estando el resto compuesto por peces. La poblacin de Gabanes estaba dispersa y los individuos se alimentaban en solitario o en pequeos grupos. El tanteo y el pateo fueron las pautas de forrajeo ms utilizadas. Todos estos patrones cambiaron gradualmente con el cese de las lluvias. Los bajos y esteros se secaron rpidamente convirtindose en lugares inadecuados para la alimentacin. Los Gabanes comenzaron entonces a formar grandes bandadas en los escasos prstamos y lagunas que todava mantenan algo de agua, donde forrajeaban tanteando juntos en estrecha proximidad. Los peces representaron ms del 99% de la dieta consumida por los Gabanes durante la poca de sequa. 
1370107| Hawaiian honeycreepers have radiated into a diversity of trophic niches and patterns of space-use. We investigated space-use in two honeycreeper species, the 'kohekohe (Palmeria dolei), an endangered nectarivore, and Maui Parrotbill (Pseudonestor xanthophrys), an endangered wood excavator, by mapping the home ranges and dispersion of color-banded individuals at a study site in relatively undisturbed montane cloud forest on Maui Island, Hawai'i. With 20% of outlying points excluded, home-range size averaged much smaller for adult male 'kohekohe (0.56 ha) than for male Maui Parrotbill (2.26 ha). In both species, a female's home range mostly overlapped that of her mate. Adult male Maui Parrotbill defended year-round home ranges from which they excluded conspecifics except for their mates and dependent offspring. Although our data suggest that 'kohekohe also maintained all-purpose territories, the evidence is less convincing because these birds were seen feeding in the home ranges of other individuals. By defending all-purpose territories, these two species depart from the more common honeycreeper pattern of sharing large, undefended home ranges. /// Los mieleros de Hawai han radiado en una gran diversidad de nichos trficos y patrones de uso del espacio. Investigamos el uso del espacio en dos especies amenazadas de mieleros, Palmeria dolei, un nectarvoro, y Pseudonestor xanthophrys, un excavador de madera. Mapeamos los rangos de hogar y dispersin de individuos marcadas con bandas de colores en un sitio relativamente no perturbado de bosque montano nublado, en la Isla Maui, Hawai. Excluyendo el 20% de los valores extremos, el tamao promedio de los rangos de hogar de los machos adultos de P. dolei fue mucho menor (0.56 ha) que el de los machos de P. xanthophrys (2.26 ha). En ambas especies, el rango de hogar de la hembra se sobrepuso en gran parte al rango del macho. Los machos adultos de P. xanthophrys defendieron su territorio durante todo el ao excluyendo a individuos conespecficos con excepcin de sus parejas y cras dependientes. A pesar que nuestros datos indican que P. dolei tambin mantuvo territorios, la evidencia es menos convincente debido a que estas aves fueron observadas forrajeando en rangos de hogar de otros individuos. Las dos especies estudiadas defienden sus territorios, lo cual las diferencia del patrn comn observado en los mieleros, que consiste en compartir extensos rangos de hogar no defendidos. 
1369677| I quantified monthly variation in species composition and captures of birds in a premontane forest of northwestern Argentina. Seasonal patterns of frugivore-insectivores and nectarivores were compared with fruit and flower abundances, respectively. The composition of the entire bird community fluctuated seasonally; frugivore-insectivores showed a peak in captures during the wet season, insectivores peaked at the end of the dry season, and nectarivores peaked during the dry season. At a local scale (50 ha), captures of frugivore-insectivores were not correlated with number of plant species with ripe fruits for any vegetation stratum considered, but were correlated with a fruit phenology index that considers crop size. At a plot scale (7.5 ha), only understory flower abundance and captures of nectarivores were correlated, but only in the plot where both were more abundant. At a net-site scale (50 m
1369838| Foraging performance of Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) was studied to find out if hyperphagia occurs before migration and breeding in this species. Diving efficiency and time spent feeding were quantified concomitantly for two subspecies that differ in the timing of their reproduction and migration. The foraging performance of female S. m. dresseri preparing for breeding and female S. m. borealis preparing for migration were compared with their male counterparts, which are known to achieve energy balance during these periods. Female dresseri spent 41% of their time feeding and made 404 dives daily, for a total of 169 min spent underwater each day. Female dresseri spent more time diving than did males by about one hour each day. There were no detectable differences in the foraging performances of male and female borealis, probably because the body mass of migrating females increased only slightly prior to migration. Hyperphagia in breeding female dresseri appears to be the main cause of increased body mass, although other mechanisms may play a role. /// Le qute alimentaire de l'Eider  duvet (Somateria mollissima) fut tudie au printemps avant la migration et avant la nidification dans le but de dceler, s'il y a lieu, un phnomne d'hyperphagie chez cette espce. Le temps pass  s'alimenter et l'efficacit de la plonge furent quantifis simultanment pour deux sous-espces qui diffrent quant  leur chronologie de nidification et de migration. La qute alimentaire des femelles S. m. dresseri, se prparant pour la nidification, et des femelles S. m. borealis, se prparant pour la migration, fut compare avec celle des mles de chacune des sous-espces respectives. Les mles furent utiliss comme "tmoins" puisqu'il y a des vidences que ces derniers maintiennent l'quilibre nergtique durant cette priode. Les femelles dresseri ont pass en moyenne 41% de leur temps  s'alimenter et elles ont ralis 404 plongeons quotidiennement, pour un total de 169 min. passes en plonge par jour, soit environ une heure de plus que les mles. Il n'y avait pas de diffrences dans la performance de la qute alimentaire des femelles et des mles borealis, probablement parce que les femelles n'emmagasinent que trs peu de rserves avant leur dpart pour la migration. En conclusion, un phnomne d'hyperphagie se manifeste chez la femelle dresseri bien que d'autres mcanismes d'accumulation de rserves peuvent jouer un rle. 
40072445|I studied the recurrence of similar plumage-pattern elements in distantly related taxa across class Aves and examined whether such pattern elements are associated with morphological features, such as body size and anterior emphasis, and with habitat type and age class in selected examples. The identification of recurrent plumage-pattern elements across a wide array of taxa can be interpreted as evidence for parallel evolution and thus for shared developmental pathways. Developmental constraint, therefore, may serve to both generate and delimit the diversity of avian plumage patterns, which are subsequently presented to selection. By examining over 8300 examples of avian plumages mostly from the literature, I derived a plumage-pattern trajectory that can be used as a theoretical model to identify associated morphological trends within various taxonomic contexts of comparison. When comparing species within a clade, as body size increases, plumage pattern often shifts along a trajectory, from countershading through streaks, bars, uniform or bold black and white patches, to reverse countershading. Moreover, the trajectory is recursive at various taxonomic levels. The recursive nature of the trajectory, in which morphological and pattern elements recur in modified configurations, has perhaps contributed to an underestimate of parallel evolution in birds. I assert that a recognition of morphological recursion enables one to predict evolutionary trends in a hypothetical spectrum of potential form and plumage pattern and thus serves to define both the limits and possibilities of avian morphospace.
10.1525/cond.2012.120011|A combination of elements (e.g., crops and pasture lands, strips of roadside vegetation, woodlots, temporary wetlands) increases the heterogeneity of rural landscapes. Agricultural landscapes range from homogeneous, dominated by a single element (i.e., pure cropland or pure pastoral farming) to heterogeneous, dominated by two or more elements (i.e., mixed farming). In this study we characterized landbird assemblages in various agricultural landscapes (cropland, pastoral, and mixed landscapes) in the Pampas of central Argentina, surveying along transects to quantify species richness, composition, and abundance. Mixed landscapes were more heterogeneous than pastoral areas and cropland. Species richness, particularly of generalists, was greater in mixed landscapes. Richness of grassland specialists (species of increased conservation concern in the Pampas) was lower in croplands than in pastoral and mixed landscapes. An indicator-species analysis supported the association of some grassland specialists (
1370578| We analyzed population trends from a constant-effort mist-netting study conducted in central coastal California during the autumns of 1979-1999. Of 31 taxa captured in sufficient numbers, 16 underwent statistically significant declines and none increased. Twice as many species declined from 1989-1999 as compared to 1979-1989. Overall, our results were similar to those of regional Breeding Bird Surveys determined for the same species during the same period. In an attempt to identify possible causes for trends, we grouped species by various life-history categories including nest height, nest type, likelihood of cowbird parasitism, wintering location, winter food preference, and tolerance for human presence on the breeding grounds. All groups underwent significant declines, although high nesters, common cowbird hosts, and Neotropical migrants declined faster than their respective counterparts. While life-history attributes explained differences in trends between groups, there was significant heterogeneity of trends within groups. Capture rates of certain species and groups appeared to be affected by various climate variables, and accelerating declines since 1990 may reflect effects of large-scale climate cycles, particularly on long-distance migrants. We suggest that long-term population trajectories of songbird populations across North America may be better understood in the context of the Pacific Decadal Oscillation. Interpretation of our results is, in some cases, problematic due to the complex interaction of methodological limitations and environmental variables, especially habitat change on the study site. We recommend the use of multiple methods and multiple sites for monitoring trends in songbird population abundance during fall migration. /// Analizamos las tendencias poblacionales de un estudio de esfuerzo constante con redes de niebla realizado en la costa central de California durante los otoos de 1979 a 1999. De las 31 especies capturadas en nmeros suficientes, 16 sufrieron disminuciones estadsticamente significativas y ninguna aument. En comparacin con el perodo de 1979 a 1989, el doble de las especies disminuyeron entre 1989 y 1999. En general, nuestros resultados fueron similares a los determinados para las mismas especies en el mismo perodo por los censos regionales de aves reproductivas. En un intento por identificar las posibles causas de las tendencias, agrupamos las especies de acuerdo a varias categoras de historias de vida incluyendo altura del nido, tipo de nido, probabilidad de parasitismo por Molothrus, localidad de invernada, preferencias alimenticias en el invierno y tolerancia ante la presencia humana en las reas reproductivas. Todos los grupos sufrieron disminuciones significativas, aunque las aves con nidos altos, los hospederos comunes de Molothrus y los migrantes neotropicales disminuyeron ms rpidamente que sus respectivas contrapartes. Aunque los atributos de historia de vida explicaron las diferencias de las tendencias entre grupos, existi una heterogeneidad significativa al interior de los grupos. Las tasas de captura de ciertas especies y grupos parecieron ser afectadas por varias variables climticas, y las disminuciones aceleradas desde 1990 podran reflejar efectos de ciclos climticos a gran escala, particularmente en migrantes de larga distancia. Sugerimos que las tendencias poblacionales a largo plazo de las aves canoras a travs de Norte Amrica podran ser mejor entendidas en el contexto de la oscilacin dcada a dcada del Pacfico. En algunos casos, la interpretacin de nuestros resultados es problemtica debido a la compleja interaccin entre las limitaciones metodolgicas y las variables ambientales, especialmente los cambios en el hbitat en el sitio de estudio. Recomendamos el uso de mltiples mtodos y sitios para monitorear las tendencias en la abundancia de las poblaciones de aves canoras durante la migracin de otoo. 
4500999| Precocial young often experience high mortality prior to achieving flight, especially in the first days after hatching. We quantified relationships between chick age, survival, behavior, and response to natural and anthropogenic danger for the threatened Western Snowy Plover (Charadrius alexandrinus nivosus) in coastal northern California, USA. Plover chicks were most likely to die in the first three days of their 28-day prefledging period, especially on sandy ocean beaches compared to coarser substrates of river habitats. Chick survival in both habitats increased across the ~120-day chick-rearing period. Improved survival of older chicks coincided with an age-related reduction in brooding and increased distance from the tending parent, which was not related to season. Lower survival of younger chicks was correlated with a tendency to lie motionless when approached by humans; nearly all older chicks responded to human approach by running to evade danger. Chicks of all ages were more likely to lie motionless when potential avian predators flew nearby. Age-dependent survival of Snowy Plover chicks paralleled a trend of increasing development, thermal independence from adults, and capability of evading predators. /// Los pichones precociales usualmente experimentan una alta mortalidad antes de adquirir la capacidad del vuelo, especialmente en los primeros das luego de eclosionar. Cuantificamos la relatin entre la edad del pichn, la supervivencia, el comportamiento y la respuesta a peligros naturales y antropognicos para la especie amenazada Charadrius alexandrinus nivosus en el rea costera del norte de California, EUA. Los pichones de C. a. nivosus presentaron mayor probabilidad de morir durante los primeros tres das del perodo de 28 das que antecede al emplumamiento, especialmente en las playas de arena del ocano comparadas con los substratos ms rugosos de los ambientes ribereos. La supervivencia de los pichones en ambos ambientes increment a lo largo de los ~120 das del perodo de cra de los pichones. La mejora en la supervivencia de los pichones de mayor edad coincidi con una reduccin de la nidada dependiente de la edad y con un incremento de la distancia entre los polluelos y el progenitor a cargo, lo cul no estuvo relacionado con la estacin. La supervivencia ms baja de los pichones ms jvenes estuvo correlacionada con una tendencia a permanecer inmvil con el acercamiento de los humanos; casi todos los pichones de mayor edad huyeron corriendo de los humanos para evadir el peligro cuando stos se les acercaron. Los pichones de todas las edades tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de permanecer inmviles cuando las aves depredadoras potenciales volaron cerca de ellos. La supervivencia dependiente de la edad de C. alexandrinus se expresa en forma paralela con la tendencia a un mayor desarrollo, la independencia trmica de los adultos y la capacidad de evadir a los depredadores. 
1370571| Yellow and red feathers pigmented by carotenoids can signal a bird's condition and are important to both female choice and male-male competition. Melanin-based ornaments are thought to be less effective than carotenoid ornaments as indicators of condition, though their signal function is still relatively unstudied. We examined both carotenoid and melanin-pigmented feather ornaments in a single species, the Kentucky Warbler (Oporornis formosus). Both males and females of this species have melanin-pigmented ornamentation (black crown, black face) and carotenoid-pigmented ornamentation (lemon-yellow under-sides). Melanin-pigmented plumage patches were larger in males than females, and males had brighter breast plumage, with a larger ultraviolet component, than females. Among males in the wild, individuals in better condition had more extensive black caps and faces, but not brighter-yellow breasts. Males with larger black caps were more likely to attract mates. This work demonstrates that, in a species with both melanin- and carotenoid-pigmented plumage, melanin-pigmented ornaments can signal condition, and that a melanin-based signal can explain variance in mating success. /// Las plumas amarillas y rojas pigmentadas por carotenoides pueden indicar la condicin de un ave y son importantes tanto para la eleccin de machos por parte de las hembras como para la competencia entre machos. Se cree que los ornamentos a base de melanina son menos efectivos como indicadores de condicin que los ornamentos carotenoides, aunque su funcin como seal ha sido menos estudiada. Examinamos plumas ornamentales pigmentadas con carotenoides y melanina en la especie Oporornis formosus. Tanto el macho como la hembra presentan ornamentacin pigmentada con melanina (corona negra, rostro negro) y ornamentacin pigmentada con carotenoides (flancos inferiores amarillo-limn). Los parches de plumaje pigmentados con melanina fueron mayores en los machos que en las hembras y el plumaje del pecho de los machos fue ms brillante y con un componente ultravioleta mayor que el de las hembras. Entre los machos en ambiente natural, los individuos con mejor condicin tuvieron coronas y rostros negros ms extensos, pero no tuvieron pechos amarillos ms brillantes. Los machos con coronas negras ms extensas tuvieron una mayor probabilidad de atraer parejas. Este trabajo demuestra que en una especie con plumaje pigmentado con melanina y carotenoides, los ornamentos pigmentados con melanina pueden sealar la condicin de los individuos, y que una seal con base en melanina puede explicar la varianza en el xito reproductivo. 
4122497| Barred Owls (Strix varia) have expanded their range throughout the ranges of Northern (Strix occidentalis caurina) and California Spotted Owls (S. o. occidentalis). Field observations have suggested that Barred Owls may be behaviorally dominant to Spotted Owls. Therefore, we conducted a test of behavioral dominance by assessing responsiveness of Spotted Owls to conspecific calls when they were in the simulated presence (i.e., imitation of Barred Owl vocalizations) of a Barred Owl. We hypothesized that Spotted Owls would be less likely to respond to conspecific calls in areas where Barred Owls were common. We used a binary 2 x 2 crossover experimental design to examine male Spotted Owl responses at 10 territories randomly selected within two study areas that differed in abundance of Barred Owls. We also conducted a quasi experiment at four study areas using response data from any Spotted Owl (male or female) detected following exposure to Barred Owl calls. We inferred from the crossover experiment that the simulated presence of a Barred Owl might negatively affect Spotted Owl responsiveness. Both subspecies of Spotted Owl responded less to Spotted Owl calls after exposure to Barred Owl calls, Northern Spotted Owls responded less frequently in areas having higher numbers of Barred Owls, and California Spotted Owls responded less frequently than Northern Spotted Owls overall. /// La especie Strix varia ha extendido su distribucin a travs de los rangos de S. occidentalis caurina y S. o. occidentalis. Algunas observaciones de campo han sugerido que los individuos de S. varia podran ser comportalmente dominantes sobre los individuos de S. occidentalis. Por lo tanto, realizamos una prueba de la dominancia comportamental que consisti en determinar la propensin de S. occidentalis a responder a llamados coespecficos cuando se simulaba la presencia de S. varia mediante la imitacin de sus vocalizaciones. Planteamos la hiptesis de que los individuos de S. occidentalis seran menos propensos a responder a los llamados coespecficos en reas donde S. varia era comn. Empleamos un diseo experimental binario cruzado de 2 X 2 para examinar las respuestas de los machos de S. occidentalis en 10 territorios elegidos al azar en dos reas de estudio que diferan en la abundancia de S. varia. Tambin realizamos un semi-experimento en cuatro reas de estudio usando datos sobre las respuestas de cualquier individuo macho o hembra de S. occidentalis detectado luego de ser expuesto a los llamados de S. varia. A partir del experimento cruzado, inferimos que la presencia simulada de S. varia podra afectar negativamente la propensin de los individuos de S. occidentalis a responder. Ambas subespecies de S. occidentalis respondieron menos a los llamados de su especie luego de la exposicin a llamados de S. varia. Los individuos de S. o. caurina respondieron con menor frecuencia en reas con nmeros mayores de S. varia y, en general, los individuos de S. o. occidentalis respondieron menos frecuentemente que los de S. o. caurina. 
90008525|Radiotelemetry has advanced the field of wildlife biology, especially with the miniaturization of radio-tags. However, the major limitation when radio-tagging birds is the size of the animal to which a radio-tag can be attached. We tested how miniature radio-tags affected flight performance and behavior of Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (
10.2307/1369313| We quantify seasonal changes in the maintenance energy requirements of Red Knots (Calidris canutus islandica). This subspecies breeds on the tundra of northeast Canada and north Greenland, migrates through Iceland and spends the winter in the coastal regions of western Europe. Maintenance Metabolism (M<sub>maint</sub>) is defined as Basal Metabolic Rate plus extra costs for thermoregulation at environmental temperatures below the thermoneutral zone. M<sub>maint</sub> of Red Knots resting in different microhabitats was estimated on the basis of measurements with heated taxidermic mounts, which were calibrated with forced convection against postabsorptive live birds resting over a range of air temperatures (i.e., against their Standard Metabolic Rate). Based on a physically realistic regression model for heat loss, we established the relationships between the electric power consumption of the mounts and three critical weather variables affecting dry heat loss: air temperature, wind speed and global solar radiation. Observations of Red Knots' use of different microhabitats (including their occurrence in flocks of different bird density) and orientation into the wind were collected on the wintering and on the breeding grounds. At lower standard operative temperatures on the coastal wintering grounds they foraged in tighter flocks and more often faced into the wind, saving 8% compared to solitary birds standing with their flanks exposed. We then used (1) microhabitat-specific equations, (2) long-term meterological data sets, and (3) estimates of habitat use and wind orientation of free-living Red Knots at the different locations and times of the year, to reconstruct the seasonal patterns in M<sub>maint</sub> in the field. Average predicted M<sub>maint</sub> varied between 2.93 W in January and 1.64 W in August on the Dutch wintering areas. The maximum monthly M<sub>maint</sub> in winter was higher than that reached on the Canadian breeding grounds (2.28 W, or 0.78 times the Dutch January cost) and on the Icelandic staging grounds (2.27 W, or 0.77  the Dutch cost in January, in spring, and 1.98 W, or 0.68, in fall). Based on 31 years of weather data from the Dutch Wadden Sea in the period 1960-1991 (assuming that Red Knots have not changed their behavior), the long-term overwinter average of M<sub>maint</sub> was 2.57 W, with an average monthly minimum of 1.87 W and a maximum of 3.05 W. The west-central coast of France, 900 km more to the south, offers energetically cheaper conditions (0.76 values for the Dutch coast in January) in the nonbreeding season than the Wadden Sea. If islandica knots moved on to West Africa during the nonbreeding season they would incur a saving of 1.13 W on M<sub>maint</sub>, and pay an extra 0.13-0.22 W to cover the cost of travel. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090193|The quality of winter territory can have important consequences for migratory songbirds throughout the year. In the American Redstart (
10.1525/cond.2011.100083|Relatively little is known about shorebird movements across the coast of northern Alaska, yet postbreeding shorebirds use this coastline extensively prior to fall migration. We deployed 346 radio transmitters on 153 breeding and 193 postbreeding shorebirds of five species from 2005 to 2007.We examined two hypotheses regarding postbreeding shorebirds' movements: (1) whether such movements reflect ultimate routes of southbound migration and (2) whether migration strategy (length of flights) or timing of molt in relation to migration (molt occurring in breeding or winter range) are more influential in determining postbreeding shorebirds' behavior. Semipalmated Sandpipers (
4151067| I compared pesticide levels in the eggs of Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus) collected from Illinois in 1995-1996 with those reported for the state in 1971-1972. Pesticides were detected in 19 of 21 (90) eggs from 1995-1996. DDE was the most frequently detected pesticide, occurring in 17 of 21 eggs. DDT was the second most frequent pesticide detected and was found in nine eggs. Mean DDE levels in shrike eggs from 1995-1996 were 79 lower than in eggs from 1971-1972. Unlike most bird species for which pesticide levels are known to have been reduced (whose populations have tended to increase), Loggerhead Shrike populations have declined during the period in which pesticide levels within their eggs has been reduced. These data suggest that organochlorine pesticides are likely not driving current Loggerhead Shrike declines in Illinois. /// Compare los niveles de pesticidas en huevos de Lanius ludovicianus colectados en Illinois entre 1995 y 1996 con los niveles de pesticidas reportados para el estado entre 1971 y 1972. Se detectaron pesticidas en 19 de 21 huevos (90%) entre 1995 y 1996. El pesticida detectado con mayor frecuencia fue DDE, el cual se detect en 17 de 21 huevos. DDT fue el insecticida detectado con la segundo mayor frecuencia, y fue encontrado en nueve huevos. Los niveles medios de DDE encontrados en los huevos de 1994-1996 fueron un 79% ms bajos que en huevos de 1971-1972. A diferencia de la mayora de las especies de ayes para las cuales se sabe que los niveles de pesticidas se han reducido (cuyas poblaciones han tendido a aumentar), las poblaciones de L. ludovicianus han disminuido durante el perodo en que los niveles de pesticidas hallados dentro de sus huevos han sido reducidos. Estos datos sugieren que probablemente los pesticidas organoclorados no estn causando la disminucin actual de las poblaciones de L. ludovicianus. 
10.2307/1370149|Prey composition of Barn Owl (Tyto alba) pellets from northwestern Negev, Israel, was examined. The 414 individual specimens of mammals represented by 256 pellets comprised: 9.2% Meriones sacramenti, 41.1% M. tristrami, 8.2% Gerbillus andersoni, 40.1% Mus musculus, and 1.4% Crocidura suaveolens. The pellets also contained some remains of insects, small specimens of the snake Eryx jaculus, and two passerine birds. We tested whether the observed distribution of prey species in the 256 pellets could be obtained if owls hunted at random. Direct calculation and simulations indicate that more single-species pellets contained large mammals than would be expected from random sampling. In simulation of owls sampling at random from the database, the distribution of "pellets" containing 1, 2, 3, or more prey items was similar to the observed distribution only when a cumulative weight limit for pellet ejection was set at 80-100 g. Even when Barn Owls do not hunt some species preferentially, the contents of the pellets may be biased towards larger prey. This result should be taken into consideration when accumulated pellets are used in ecological and paleontological studies to approximate the distribution of mammal prey in real communities, present or past.
10.2307/1368978|Laysan and Black-footed Albatrosses show a bidirectional pattern of incomplete molt in their primaries which has never before been described for any bird. Juveniles molting their flight feathers for the first time replace only their distal three or four primaries. In older birds the ten primaries are divided at their mid-point into two series, each with an independent set of rules for replacement. Unlike most other birds, the primaries of the two series are replaced in opposite directions, with molt proceeding toward the wing tip in the outer series and toward the body in the inner series. The outermost feathers of the distal series are replaced every year without fail; the time available to molt determines how many feathers of this series are replaced. In the inner series, feather replacement occurs only every second to third year. When molt does occur in the inner series it is normally incomplete, and it proceeds in a wraparound pattern which assures that the oldest and most worn feathers are always the first to be replaced.
10.2307/1368478|We studied the nest attentiveness of six female White-rumped Sandpipers (Calidris fuscicollis), a species with uniparental care which incubates in the continuous daylight of the arctic summer. We used correlation and multiple regression analyses to determine how well day-to-day variation in recess time/day, number of trips/day, and average trip length/day could be explained by date, concurrent weather, behavior on the previous day, and weather on the previous day. Both previous and concurrent weather were important predictors of incubation behavior, while date and previous behavior were not. We therefore conclude that incubation behavior on a given day is not simply a function of current conditions. Behavior appears at least to integrate the effects of both present weather and weather on the previous day.
10.2307/1369857| We studied microhabitat use, foraging and social behavior of Broad-billed (Todus subulatus) and Narrow-billed (T. angustirostris) Todies in two areas of sympatry in the Cordillera Central of the Dominican Republic. Solitary Broad-billed and Narrow-billed Todies occupied distinct microhabitats in both shade coffee plantations and native pine forest while generally sharing similar foraging strategies. In both habitats, Broad-billed Todies foraged higher in the vegetation and occurred in more outer horizontal positions with lower foliage density than did their congener. Movement rates and feeding rates differed significantly between the two species, with the Narrow-bill being the more active species. Changes in foraging behavior by both species of todies were observed when they associated with mixed-species flocks in pine forest. We noted a decrease in some measures of spatial overlap of todies in interspecific flocks, but other feeding behaviors tended to converge. /// Estudiamos el uso del microhbitat, comportamiento alimenticio y social de Todus subulatus y T. angustirostris en dos reas simptricas de la Cordillera Central de la Repblica Dominicana. Aves solitarias de ambas especies ocupan distintos microhbitates en plantaciones de caf de sombra y en los bosques nativos, mientras comparten estrategias de forrajeo generalmente similares. En ambos habitates T. subulatus se alimenta ms alto en la vegetacin mientras se encuentra en posiciones horizontales ms hacia afuera, con una densidad de follaje menor que su congnere. Las razones de movimiento y alimentacin difieren grandemente entre las dos especies, siendo el T. angustirostris la especie ms activa. Se observaron los cambios en el comportamiento de alimentacin cuando estas especies se asociaban en bandadas de especies mixtas en los bosques de pinos. Notamos una merma en el solapamiento espacial en las bandadas interespecficas, pero otros comportamientos de alimentacin mostraron una tendencia a converger. 
1370750| Populations of the Western Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma californica) have bills specialized for feeding in their respective habitats. Populations in oak habitat have hooked bills, whereas those in pinyon habitat have pointed bills with a reduced maxillary overhang. Work on other bird species shows that the bill overhang is essential for efficient preening to control ectoparasites. Given the importance of this overhang, we predicted that louse-infested jays with pointed bills would have higher louse loads than those with hooked bills. We compared the number of lice on 65 pointed-billed (4 infested) and 105 hooked-billed (17 infested) birds. Despite their lower incidence of louse infestation, pointed-billed birds had significantly more lice than hooked-billed birds, supporting our prediction. While pointed bills enhance feeding in pinyon habitat, our results suggest that they may incur a cost of reduced preening efficiency. Evolution of bill shape has traditionally been interpreted mainly in terms of foraging. Our results suggest that selection for efficient preening may also play an important role. /// Los individuos de distintas poblaciones de Aphelocoma californica tienen picos especializados para alimentarse en sus hbitats respectivos. Las poblaciones de hbitats con robles se caracterizan por picos ganchudos, mientras que las de hbitats con piones tienen picos puntiagudos, con el gancho de la punta de la maxila reducido. Estudios en otras especies de aves han mostrado que el gancho del pico es esencial para acicalarse eficientemente y as controlar los ectoparsitos. Dada la importancia de este gancho, predijimos que los individuos de A. californica de pico puntiagudo infestados con piojos de pluma tendran una mayor carga de ectoparsitos que aquellos de pico ganchudo. Comparamos el nmero de piojos entre 65 individuos de pico puntiagudo (4 infestados) y 105 de pico ganchudo (17 infestados). A pesar de la baja incidencia de infestacin por piojos, las aves de pico puntiagudo presentaron significativamente ms piojos que las de picho ganchudo, apoyando nuestra prediccin. Aunque los picos puntiagudos benefician la alimentacin en hbitats de piones, nuestros resultados sugieren que podran representar un costo reduciendo la eficiencia de acicalamiento. Por lo general, la evolucin de la forma del pico ha sido interpretada tradicionalmente en trminos del forrajeo, pero nuestros resultados sugieren que la seleccin para acicalarse eficientemente tambin podra tener un papel importante. 
10.2307/1369479|The fates of 121 nests of Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) in south-western Ohio were determined in 1991 and 1992. Success rate was only 15%, estimated by the Mayfield method. All failed nests were known or suspected to have been preyed upon. Several hypotheses to explain differences between the location of successful and failed nests were tested. None of those considered explained why the contents of particular nests were taken. We propose that a high incidence of predation by a rich guild of nest predators precludes the existence of predictably safe nest sites for cardinals. Instead, cardinals appear simply to be well-adapted to renest rapidly in response to the near randomness of nest predation. A similar adaptation may characterize many passerines.
10.2307/1368836|In the Sonoran Desert, Gilded (Northern) Flickers (Colaptes auratus chrysoides) and Gila Woodpeckers (Melanerpes uropygialis) excavate nest cavities within the giant sahuaro cactus. Vertical distributions of nest cavities excavated by the two woodpecker species differ in height and breadth. Flicker cavities are usually restricted to within 3 m of the stem apex. Nest cavities excavated by Gila Woodpeckers are found over a considerably broader vertical range of heights; their average height is also lower. Competitive preemption of potential excavation sites cannot fully explain this differential utilization of vertical space. Rather, the initial positioning of nest cavities is constrained by cactus anatomy. Different nest-cavity sizes and wood-chiseling capabilities of the two woodpecker species limit the vertical range over which nest cavities can be excavated. In addition, an excavation by a flicker often results in death of the sahuaro. With this mortality, a long-running record of flicker nest-cavity heights is not preserved. In sahuaros containing only Gila Woodpecker cavities, the original heights of old excavations are preserved as the sahuaro continues to grow, thus contributing to the greater vertical range of observed cavity heights.
10.2307/1367887|The effects of five dietary protein levels on the body condition of captive female Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) were studied throughout the breeding cycle at Guelph, Ontario. Isocaloric rations containing protein levels (% dry matter) of 7.6, 11.5, 13.6, 17.0 and 20.1 were supplied to five test groups in late February 1979. Before egg-laying, test groups had similar body weight and food consumption (P > 0.05). However, while birds grew heavier, the daily values for nitrogen balance increased linearly as the level of dietary protein (%) increased (P < 0.01). Over the laying period, an increase in dietary protein (%) was associated with greater food consumption and, for a two-day period at least, higher nitrogen balance values (P < 0.01). During egg-laying, test groups receiving higher protein (%) rations generally lost less weight than groups receiving lower protein rations. Nevertheless, after egg-laying, test groups had similar food consumption and began new primary feather growth at about the same date (P > 0.05). A significant positive quadratic trend in body weight, but no significant trend in nitrogen balance, was evident among test groups about four weeks after egg-laying.
4123199| Little is known about the period between fledging and breeding in long-lived birds, including survival rates and factors affecting survival, yet this period may be critical to population regulation. We conducted health exams on 72 nestling Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) aged 4-6 weeks, and monitored survival of these birds via satellite telemetry for up to two years of age. Eighty-two percent of nestlings fitted with transmitters in 2002 (n = 33) survived to fledging. Of these fledglings (n = 27), 44% survived their first year. Second-year survival for the same cohort (n = 12) was 75%. In contrast, 50% of nestlings fitted with transmitters in 2003 (n = 34) survived to fledging, and 6% of fledglings (n = 17) survived the first year. Of the health parameters we measured in large nestlings, white blood cell count was consistently the most closely related to postfledging survival. Significantly elevated heterophil:lymphocyte ratios in 2003 coincided with the observed high colony abandonment that year. After controlling for health parameters, gender also appeared to play a significant role in predicting survival, with males at greater risk of mortality. Hematological factors and gender were both more closely associated with survival in 2003 than in 2002, suggesting these factors may play a greater role in regulating postfledging survival or, in the case of hematology, serve as indicators of poor health in less favorable years when nestling storks are exposed to multiple stressors. /// Se conoce poco sobre el periodo comprendido entre el abandono del nido y la reproduccin en las aves longevas, incluyendo las tasas de supervivencia y los factores que las afectan. An as, este perodo puede ser crtico para la regulacin de las poblaciones. Realizamos exmenes para determinar la salud de 72 polluelos de Mycteria americana de cuatro a seis semanas de edad y monitoreamos la tasa de supervivencia de estas aves por medio de telemetra satelital hasta los dos aos de edad. El 82% de los polluelos marcados en 2002 (n = 33) sobrevivieron desde el marcaje hasta el abandono del nido. De los volantones que abandonaron la colonia (n = 27), el 44% sobrevivieron el primer ao. De estos, el 75% (n = 12) sobrevivieron el segundo ao. De manera contraria, el 50% de los polluelos marcados en 2003 (n = 34) sobrevivieron desde el marcaje hasta el abandono del nido, y el 6% de los volantones (n = 17) sobrevivieron el primer ao. De los parmetros de salud que medimos en polluelos grandes, el conteo de glbulos blancos fue consistentemente el que estuvo ms relacionado con la supervivencia despus de abandonar el nido. Proporciones significativamente elevadas de heterfilos: linfocitos en el 2003 coincidieron con las altas tasas de abandono observadas ese ao. Despus de controlar por los parmetros de salud, el sexo pareci jugar un papel significativo en la prediccin de la supervivencia, estando los machos en mayor riesgo de mortalidad. Los factores hematolgicos y el sexo estuvieron ms estrechamente relacionados con la supervivencia en 2003 que en 2002, lo cual sugiere que estos factores podran jugar un papel ms importante en la regulacin de la supervivencia de los volantones o, en el caso de la hematologa, servir como indicadores de una salud deficiente en aos desfavorables en los que las cigeas estn expuestas a mltiples factores de estrs. 
10.2307/1369908|Interspecific brood amalgamation in waterfowl has been hypothesized to be an extension of intraspecific brood amalgamation behavior that increases the likelihood of successful amalgamation by increasing the range of potential recipients. I tested this hypothesis using recent phylogenetic information. The analysis revealed that the likelihood that a lineage carries the interspecific brood amalgamation state increases significantly when the lineage also carries the intraspecific amalgamation state, thus supporting the hypothesis. The likelihood of a transition to interspecific brood amalgamation was similar across categories of several ecological and life-history factors, including nesting dispersion, nesting substrate, type of brood care, and level of reproductive effort. Nevertheless, several lineages carrying the intraspecific brood amalgamation state failed to show the interspecific counterpart, suggesting that the expression of interspecific brood amalgamation tendencies can be constrained by other factors.
40306120|Spring migration strategies vary within and among species. Examination of this variability extends our understanding of life histories and has implications for conservation. I used satellite transmitters to determine migration strategies and evaluate factors influencing the timing of spring migration of Pacific Common Eiders (
10.2307/1369032|Common Goldeneye (Bucephala clangula) nest attendance was recorded on three Minnesota lakes, 1982-1985. Data were from 22 nests monitored 545 days. Hens increased time at nests and frequency of overnight sessions as incubation approached. Incubation recesses were diurnal; most occurred between 9:00 and 19:00 CST. Recesses were fewest and longest in early incubation, but total recess time was greatest in late incubation. Daily incubation constancy was highly variable, ranging from 36.7 to 96.3%. Lake and year effects influenced the number of daily recesses and total daily recess time. Mean recess length did not differ among lakes and years. Three females monitored in both 1984 and 1985 recessed more daily (x = 55 min) in 1984, and their yearly ranks were the same for all parameters suggesting strong hen effects. Incubation ranged from 28 to 30 days and was correlated (r = 0.72) with mean daily recess time. Nests incubated 29 and 30 days had mean total incubation times that differed by 13 min. While brooding young, incubation-like patterns were maintained but absences were fewer and shorter. Our results differed slightly from those reported for a recent Ontario study, but the differences may be due to analytical approaches.
90008528|Knowledge of the demography and habitat requirements of the endangered Golden-cheeked Warbler (
1370611| In a field experiment, we measured the giving-up densities and activity of co-occurring American Robins (Turdus migratorius) and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Across six distances from cover, both species had lower giving-up densities near cover (safe) than away (risky). In terms of activity, both species were more active near than away from cover. Preference for cover was more pronounced for robins. Both species foraged more in the morning than in the afternoon. This pattern was more pronounced for starlings. Relative to the background environment (mowed grass), robins favored the food patches more than starlings. For starlings and robins, respectively, it took 72.6 m
10.2307/1370430|We studied the timing, duration, and rate of wing molt of male Barrow's Goldeneye (Bucephala islandica). The mean daily change in primary feather length was 2.6%, which is consistent with rates reported for other waterfowl species. The mean length of the flightless period was 31 days (range: 27-34 days), excluding the pre-shedding interval. Wing molt extended from early July to mid-September. Peak wing molt occurred between 20 July and 23 August. The mean body weight of adult males decreased significantly during wing molt. Heavier birds had greater remigial growth rates and experienced more substantial declines in body weight than lighter birds, suggesting that body reserves may be used to increase the rate of remigial growth.
10.2307/1367073|The frequency and cause of supernormal clutches were investigated in two Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia) colonies in the Pacific Northwest. Over 4% of the nests contained four eggs and 0.8% contained five to six eggs. Trapping and sexing all attendants at two three-egg nests, two four-egg nests, and one five-egg nest revealed that the three-egg nests were incubated by heterosexual pairs and the supernormal clutches (four to six eggs) by female-female pairs. Although supernormal clutches in Caspian Terns were rare throughout North America before 1940, they have increased in frequency since 1950 in the U.S. but not in Canada.
10.1525/cond.2010.090050|When a communal roost is large relative to foraging distances, variance in foraging success may affect the positioning of the birds within the roost and we should expect fidelity to positions that improve foraging success. We explored fidelity of Snow Geese (
10.2307/1368980|The vocal repertoire of male Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) includes a single distinctive perch song, a flight song, and several calls, including a chatter call. To ascertain the function of perch songs and chatter calls and to determine if these vocalizations are altered to convey different information, I examined the singing and calling behavior of male yellowthroats throughout the breeding cycle and in different behavioral contexts. The singing behavior of males changed in two ways after pairing: singing rates declined, suggesting that perch songs play a role in mate attraction, and most songs were uttered with reduced volume. These low volume songs appeared to be directed at mates, perhaps serving to stimulate ovulatory cycles, elicit copulation solicitation, or provide information about potential predators. Male yellowthroats uttered regular volume songs at low rates after pairing, suggesting that their function is not limited to mate attraction. Regular volume songs uttered after pairing appeared to be used in both intrasexual and intersexual contexts. The use of chatter calls did not decline until after females began incubating, and most were directed at conspecific males in aggressive (territorial) contexts. Male yellow-throats typically uttered longer perch songs (more phrases per song) during the nest building/egg laying and incubation/nestling periods, however, the possible function of these longer songs is unknown. My results provided no other evidence that male yellowthroats convey motivational information by varying the temporal and frequency characteristics of either perch songs or chatters.
10.2307/1369400|We analyzed the carcass composition of 160 adult female Dusky Canada Geese (Branta canadensis occidentalis) collected in Oregon and Alaska from 1977 to 1979, to determine energy use patterns from premigration to hatch. We tested the predictions that geese would accumulate energy reserves during migration, experience a gradual loss during prelaying and a severe loss during laying and incubation. Energy requirements met from food were estimated by comparing changes in endogenous reserves to estimated daily energy requirements. Body mass, and water, lipid and protein components varied by stage of reproduction (P = 0.0001), and protein also varied by year (P = 0.0001). The brief migration period was costly, with a 52% decline in lipids, indicating that strategies to meet these energy demands are pivotal and will influence subsequent energy dynamics of reproduction. Geese maintained or increased lipid and protein reserves during the prelaying period, gradually lost reserves during laying and experienced considerable declines during incubation. Use of food for energy and nutrient requirements was important at all stages, accounting for 24% during incubation, the smallest but perhaps most critical contribution, to 100% during prelaying, of estimate daily energy requirements. The contribution of exogenous (food), versus endogenous sources, to energy and nutrient requirements of northern nesting geese is proving to be much more important than previously thought.
10.2307/1368341|Males of Lawes' Parotia (Parotia lawesii), a lek-breeding bird of paradise, collected objects at their terrestrial display courts. These included shed snake skin, mammal scats, chalk, mammal fur, feathers, and bone fragments. The objects were not used by males in their courtship display but were rubbed on the display perch and may have had indirect effects on display. Females searched for and took the objects when visiting courts, and males stole them from each other and placed them at their own courts. Experiments showed that objects were removed quickly by females, usually within 24 hr, and once taken, they were not brought back. Females only took objects during the nesting season, and we suspect that females used the shed snake skin as nest-lining material and ate the chalk as a mineral supplement. Collection of the items was not related to mating success in males but may have influenced female visitations.
10.2307/1368158|I studied nestling care in the cooperative-breeding Pygmy Nuthatch (Sitta pygmaea) in 1983 and 1984 to determine how helper participation in providing for nestlings affected breeding success and parental survival. Breeding in 1984 was about 3 weeks earlier than 1983. Mothers and helpers contributed equally, but significantly less than fathers in provisioning the nestlings. Between-nest differences in the onset of breeding determined most of the variation in nestling feeding rates; nests initiated early in the breeding season received more frequent feeding visits. Enhanced reproductive success by breeding units with helpers (Sydeman et al. 1988) was not related to increased feeding rates to the nestlings. Total feeding rates were no greater when helpers supplemented the feeding visits of both parents. At nests with helpers, however, parents and helpers were at the nest cavity more often. The feeding contribution made by helpers proved more beneficial to parents than nestlings, allowing parents to reduce feeding frequency, and presumably energy expenditure. However, this benefit did not lead to increased breeder survival.
10.2307/1370209|I present reasons that preclude the identification of nest predators from nest remains: inter-specific overlap and intra-specific variation in patterns of nest destruction, unexpected predators, egg size, stage of development, experience of researchers, partial nest depredation, multi-predator visits, and parental activity at depredated nests. Because many of these problems may act simultaneously, I suggest that further attempts at validating this subjective field technique be abandoned, and instead that researchers and managers invest their time and resources in objective methods of predator identification, possibly through the use of predator identification devices.
10.2307/1368065|Since the nesting of the White-naped Swift (Streptoprocne semicollaris) was first described (Rowley and Orr 1962), this species has been thought to differ from other cypseloidine swifts in failing to build a nest structure. I studied nesting of White-naped Swifts and White-collared Swifts (Streptoprocne zonaris) at colonies where earlier nest descriptions were made. Based on a larger sample than that available to previous authors, I found the two swifts to differ little in nesting habits. Both species built or used existing nest structures on slanted substrates where eggs and young would otherwise have been at risk of rolling or falling, and both often laid eggs and reared young without a nest structure where the substrate was level or naturally enclosed. Frequency of use of risky vs. safe sites differed between colonies, reflecting apparent differences in the availability of safe sites. White-naped Swifts used nest structures on the same ledges where they laid eggs without nest structures 22 and 24 years earlier. Probably due to periodic flooding, these ledges apparently were less sandy in 1983 and 1985 than in 1961, and the swifts had responded to substrate changes by building nest structures in the absence of sandy oviposition sites. The supposedly unique nesting habits of S. semicollaris have been used as partial justification for a monotypic subgenus, Semicollum (Brooke 1970). Evidence presented here brings this rationale into question. Nests of both species, when built, were typical of the Cypseloidinae, except that semicollaris used more mud than is typical. Stereotyped behaviors used in nest building, when it does occur, are probably safer indicators of phylogeny than is mere frequency of nest building, which can differ between sites and change rapidly at a given site.
10.2307/1368648| Chukars (Alectoris chukar) have a broad Palearctic distribution which includes mesic and semi-arid, but not very hot, arid areas. We studied the seasonal activity patterns of Chukars in the Negev desert highlands of Israel, and examined whether their ability to inhabit hot, dry areas is influenced by limitations imposed on their activities by the physical environment. Daily energy expenditure (DEE) of Chukars (350 to 550 g body mass) was calculated by converting time-activity budgets to time-energy budgets, and by using the operative environmental temperature (T<sub>e</sub>) to estimate the Chukar's thermoregulatory requirements. Mean DEE of Chukars was 630 kJ/(kgday) in summer when they foraged mainly on high energy foods in cultivated fields, and 960 kJ/(kgday) in winter when they ate mainly natural vegetation of lower energy content. Consequently, Chukars spent twice as much time foraging in winter than in summer (7 to 8 hr/day vs. 3 to 3.5 hr/day). The Chukars' activity pattern during summer was bimodal, characterized by long periods (7 to 8 hr/day) of rest in the shade during the hot part of the day. A significant positive correlation was found between time spent resting and mean daily maximum T<sub>e</sub> <tex-math>$\overline{{\rm T}}_{\text{e},\text{max}}$</tex-math> and a significant negative correlation was found between time spent foraging and <tex-math>$\overline{{\rm T}}_{\text{e},\text{max}}$</tex-math>. We concluded that the geographical distribution of Chukars is limited by a combination of two key factors: the duration of time that Chukars can remain active without risking their heat balance and the amount of time they need to find and eat enough food to meet their daily energy requirements. 
10.2307/1368152|Group-living White-browed Sparrow-Weavers (Plocepasser mahali) build their roost and breeding nests on one side of nest trees. The placement of nests correlates with the direction of the local prevailing wind. Birds gain a 35% increase in the useful life of a nest built on the leeward side of a nest tree, compared with a nest built on the windward side. Solar radiation, humidity, and thermal effects appear unimportant in influencing nest placement. Foliage density and other nearby cover does not affect nest placement. Hence, White-browed Sparrow-Weaver nest placement appears to be an adaptation for having large numbers of intact nests available for breeding and for roosting throughout the year.
10.2307/1369781|We studied recruitment and dispersal of White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) breeding in naturally fragmented alpine habitats at four study sites in Colorado from 1987-1998. Almost all recruitment for both sexes, particularly females, was of birds produced outside local populations and also external to nearby studied populations. Populations were more dependent on female recruitment than on male recruitment to sustain them, and patterns of recruitment were not correlated with local survival of adults or production of young the previous year, except at one site for females. Over 95% of recruits were yearlings. Breeding dispersal of adults, an infrequent but regular event, was also important to inter-population connectivity. Our data for multiple populations allowed us to describe movement patterns among populations to assess consistency with conditions required for a rescue system. After widespread reproductive failure in one year, we expected all populations the next year would have low recruitment due to a reduced supply of recruits produced in the region. Recruitment was low, but impact varied among populations. We conducted an over-winter study of radio-marked offspring to determine possible influences of winter site location and relatives on recruitment patterns. Contrary to expectation, offspring remained on or near breeding sites in winter, but were not located near their mothers or siblings. Recruitment location was related to winter site location. White-tailed Ptarmigan exhibit a well developed capacity for external recruitment that allows them to persist in small populations with stochastic conditions for breeding and survival. Extensive external recruitment may be a general pattern for birds.
10.2307/1369205|Between 1982 and 1987, photographic and telemetric tracking of California Condors (Gymnogyps californianus) yielded information on use of the last known range of the species by 23 individual birds. Except for yearlings, most and possibly all individuals in the population used all major foraging zones. Use of the foraging zones was not uniform among individuals, however. Breeding pairs tended to forage most frequently in zones close to their nests (usually within 70 km, occasionally as far away as 180 km). Immatures (at least older immatures), unpaired birds, and paired birds that were not breeding foraged more widely. Male and female adults used the foraging range in a similar manner. Although most portions of the foraging range received some condor use throughout the year, use varied seasonally in accord with recent and historical patterns of food availability. Nesting areas were separated from foraging zones and were visited much less freely than foraging zones. Paired birds tended strongly to visit only their own and immediately adjacent nesting areas. Their nesting areas remained stable over the years. Unpaired adults and immatures ranged more widely among nesting areas. Condors were sometimes documented flying more than 200 km and traversing the entire range of the species during a day. Birds were variably social in movements. Pair members tended to stay together during long-distance travels. Immatures and unpaired birds sometimes traveled with other condors but often moved singly. In years when the population still included many breeders, the largest observed aggregations included one-half to two-thirds of the total population. The comparative strengths and weaknesses of photographic and telemetric methods are described for tracking and other research endeavors.
1370575| We determined the energy budget of nestling Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) at a 2900-m-high subalpine site by combining growth data with measurements of field metabolic rate (doubly labeled water technique) and resting metabolic rate made on different-aged nestlings. Nestling sparrows grow rapidly (their logistic growth rate constant is 129% of the allometric prediction) and they fledge at 9 days of age weighing 20.6 g (75% of adult mass). Relatively rapid growth in a cool montane environment (mean daytime air temperature = 16.5  1.4C) is associated with high daily and total nestling energy requirements. During the 9 days between hatching and fledging, each nestling metabolized a total of 443 kJ of energy; a value 25% higher than expected for an open-nesting passerine bird. The relative cost of producing a fledgling White-crowned Sparrow (21.5 kJ per g body mass) exceeds that of the three other open-nesting passerine species that have been measured with doubly labeled water (range 16.5-19.3 kJ g<sup>-1</sup>). The energy that nestling sparrows accumulated as new tissue (115 kJ) constituted 26% of the total energy metabolized; substantially less than the 37% allocated to activity and thermoregulation combined. Nestling White-crowned Sparrows allocated more energy to activity and thermoregulation than nestlings of most other parent-fed species, but much less than the 50-53% of total metabolizable energy allocated by precocial shorebird chicks. /// Determinamos el presupuesto energtico de pichones de Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha en un sitio subalpino a 2900 m de altitud combinando datos de crecimiento y de tasa metablica en el campo (medida con la tcnica de agua doblemente marcada) y tasa metablica en reposo en pichones de diferentes edades. Los pichones crecen rpidamente (sus tasas de crecimiento logstico son el 129% de las tasas alomtricas) y empluman a los 9 das de edad, pesando 20.6 g (75% de su peso adulto). El crecimiento relativamente rpido en un ambiente de montaa fresco (temperatura diaria promedio = 16.5  1.4C) est asociado con altas exigencias energticas diarias y totales. Durante los 9 das entre la eclosin y el emplumamiento, cada pichn metaboliz un total de 443 kJ de energa, un valor 25% ms alto del esperado para un ave paserina de nido abierto. El costo relativo de producir un volantn de Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha (21.5 kJ por g de peso corporal) es ms alto que el de otras tres especies de paserinos de nido abierto que se han estudiado con la tcnica de agua doblemente marcada (rango 16.5 a 19.3 kJ g<sup>-1</sup>). La energa que los pichones acumularon como tejido nuevo (115 kJ) represent el 26% de su metabolismo total, un valor sustancialmente menor que el 37% asignado a la actividad y a la termorregulacin combinadas. Los pichones de Z. leucophrys oriantha asignaron ms energa a la actividad y a la termorregulacin que los pichones de la mayora de las dems especies alimentadas por los padres, pero menos que los pichones precoces de aves playeras (50 a 53%). 
10.2307/1369113|A recent phylogenetic study of the genus Vireo, based on protein electrophoresis, shows the taxon is polyphyletic and contains four distinct groups. This contradicts the traditional classification of the genus. Johnson et al. (1988) find a group containing members of the subgenera Vireo and Lanivireo, a lone taxon containing the species V. bellii and a division of the subgenus Vireosylva into a gilvus and an olivaceus group. To test these results independently, sequence data from the mitochondrial cytochrome b (cyt-b) gene were collected from the following 9 vireos representing the three subgenera: Bell's Vireo (Vireo bellii), Gray Vireo (V. vicinior), Solitary Vireo (V. solitarius), Black-capped Vireo (V. atricapillus), White-eyed Vireo (V. griseus), Philadelphia Vireo (V. philadelphicus), Warbling Vireo (V. gilvus), Red-eyed Vireo (V. olivaceus) and Black-whiskered Vireo (V. altiloquus), and two confamilial species: Rufous-browed Peppershrike (Cyclarhis gujanensis) and Slaty-capped Shrike-Vireo (Vireolanius leucotis). For each of the above species, at least 273 homologous base pairs from the cyt-b gene were amplified using the polymerase chain reaction, and subsequently sequenced. Estimates of phylogenies were achieved through phenetic, maximum likelihood and weighted cladistic analyses. The evolutionary histories produced did not support or reject the monophyly of the genus Vireo. However, Cyclarhis was more closely related to Vireo than was Vireolanius. Two major clades were found in the genus Vireo. An eye-lined clade contained members of the subgenus Vireosylva while an eye-ringed group contained members of the subgenera Vireo and Lanivireo (including V. bellii).
10.2307/1370192|Body mass, intestinal lengths, and the occurrence and relative size of ceca from 154 species of birds representing 21 orders and a diversity of food habits were compared. Well-developed ceca occur in the Anseriformes, Galliformes, Gruiformes, Cuculiformes, Strigiformes, Caprimulgiformes, and Trogoniformes. The presence of well-developed ceca is less consistent in other orders and appears to be related to diet; herbivorous species whose diets contain large amounts of cellulose have well-developed ceca, whereas species having diets rich in soluble sugars and proteins tend to have poorly-developed or no ceca. We postulate that the relatively well-developed ceca in some non-herbivorous birds are associated with conservation of critical resources such as water and nitrogen.
1370581| We examined seasonal variation in the hatching sex ratio of Audouin's Gull (Larus audouinii). This species is sexually size dimorphic (males are 20% larger than females at fledging); it has a modal clutch of three eggs, which vary in size (the third egg is the smallest) and hatch asynchronously. These sex, egg size, and hatching patterns generate substantial within-brood differences in chick size that interact with the food provisioning of the parents to influence chick survival. Parental provisioning capacity depends on both parental quality and environmental conditions, both of which are known to decline with season. Consequently, the optimal brood composition is likely to vary within a season. Using molecular markers to sex newly hatched chicks, we found that offspring sex was influenced by an interaction between hatching date and hatching order, with the proportion of males among third-hatched chicks initially increasing and then decreasing later in the season. /// En el presente trabajo examinamos la variacin estacional en la proporcin de sexos de los pollos de Larus audouinii en el momento de la eclosin. Esta especie es sexualmente dimrfica (los machos son un 20% mayores que las hembras al acabar su crecimiento), tiene una puesta modal de tres huevos, que varan en tamao (el tercero es el menor) y eclosionan asincrnicamente. Estos patrones de sexo, tamao del huevo y orden de eclosin generan diferencias sustanciales en el tamao de los pollos dentro de la pollada, los que a su vez interaccionan con la provisin de alimento de los progenitores influyendo la supervivencia de cada pollo. La capacidad de proveer alimento depender de la calidad parental y de las condiciones ambientales, las cuales suelen disminuir a lo largo de la estacin reproductora. En consecuencia, la composicin ptima de la pollada probablemente vara en cada estacin. Una vez identificado de sexo de los pollos mediante tcnicas moleculares, encontramos que el sexo de la progenie estuvo influenciado por la interaccin entre la fecha de eclosin y el orden de eclosin, de modo que la proporcin de machos en los huevos eclosionados en tercer lugar increment inicialmente y luego disminuy al final de la estacin. 
10.2307/1369807|We studied the time-activity budgets of Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) molting at the Gannet Islands, Labrador in the summer of 1998. For the entire population, a large proportion of time was spent hauled out of the water (61.4%), and resting (53.5%). Only a small proportion of time was spent foraging (11.6%). Male Harlequin Ducks undergoing the pre-basic molt were hauled out of the water significantly more (92.2%) than males in basic plumage (8.1%). Males undergoing the pre-basic body feather molt foraged significantly less (1.7%) than males in basic plumage (17.7%). Harlequin Ducks do not appear to increase their food intake to meet the nutritional requirements of molt. Instead they may try to reduce thermoregulatory and maintenance costs by engaging in activities that do not consume much energy, and by staying out of cold water while their plumage is not intact. Furthermore, they may deliberately lose body mass while molting to regain the ability to fly at an earlier stage of wing molt.
10.2307/1368151|In 1977, we studied nest-site selection and breeding success of Yellow-footed Gulls (Larus livens) at Bahia de los Angeles, Baja California. Seventy-five percent of the population nested colonially, a habit facilitating defense against egg and chick predation by Common Ravens (Corvus corax). The majority of these pairs selected beach-berm substrate where they obtained optimum visibility of surroundings. Beach-berm substrate also provided conditions that enabled them to place nests close to the water (advantageous for maintaining predator defense while practicing thermoregulatory activities necessary in a hot climate). The remaining 25% of the population nested noncolonially, probably in response to the threat of egg collecting by man. The majority of these pairs nested on talus-boulder substrate, a terrain difficult for man to negotiate, but which also provided suboptimum visibility of surroundings, and suboptimum conditions for nesting close to the water. Low reproductive success (0.12 young/pair) on Islas Coronado and La Ventana was attributed to predation by man on gulls nesting colonially, and ravens on gulls nesting noncolonially.
4096541| While male song and its functions have been well studied, female song has often been overlooked. In this study, we provide a detailed description of the spontaneous female song in a well-studied northern temperate songbird, the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris). We compared the song organization, complexity, and composition of female and male starlings housed in large outdoor aviaries. Overall, the general organization was similar in both sexes, and some females sang complex song bouts of more than 30 seconds of uninterrupted song. Although some females were capable of singing the four phrase-type categories typically found in male song bouts (whistle, variable, rattle, and high-frequency phrase types), a significantly lower proportion of females sang all four categories of phrase type as compared to males. Our results also revealed large individual variation in song characteristics among females: repertoire size varied between 11 and 36 phrase types, while average song bout length ranged between 10 and 26 seconds. All song parameters (total repertoire size, song bout length, and repertoire size within the four different phrase categories) were significantly lower in females than in males. Nevertheless, except for the number of rattle phrase types, song parameters overlapped between the sexes demonstrating that some females produced a more complex song than some males. /// Mientras que el canto del macho y sus funciones han sido bien estudiados, el canto de las hembras ha sido menos estudiado. En este estudio, brindamos una descripcin detallada del canto espontneo de la hembra en una especie bien estudiada de ave canora del norte templado, Sturnus vulgaris. Comparamos la organizacin del canto, la complejidad y la composicin entre machos y hembras en aviarios de gran tamao emplazados al aire libre. En total, la organizacin general fue similar en ambos sexos, y algunas hembras cantaron unidades de canto complejas durante ms de 30 segundos de modo ininterrumpido. Aunque algunas hembras fueron capaces de cantar las cuatro categoras de tipos de frases tpicamente halladas en las unidades de canto de los machos (silbido, variable, matraqueo y tipos de frases de alta frecuencia), una porcin significativamente menor de las hembras cant todas las cuatro categoras de tipos de frases en comparacin con los machos. Nuestros resultados tambin revelaron gran variacin individual entre hembras en las caractersticas del canto: el tamao del repertorio vari entre 11 y 36 tipos de frases, mientras que la duracin promedio de la unidad de canto fluctu entre 10 y 26 segundos. Todos los parmetros examinados del canto (tamao total del repertorio, duracin de la unidad de canto y tamao del repertorio dentro de las cuatro categoras diferentes de frases) fueron significativamente menores en las hembras que en los machos. A pesar de ello, a excepcin del nmero del tipo de frases de matraqueo, los parmetros del canto se superpusieron entre los sexos, implicando que algunas hembras produjeron un canto ms complejo que algunos machos. 
10.2307/1367372|The weight and carcass composition of Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) collected in southeast Missouri were analyzed during fall and at specific stages of the reproductive cycle. Males lost 4% of their body weight between fall and spring. Decreases in the weights of digestive organs were primarily responsible for the change. The body weights of hens increased 14% between fall courtship (618 g) and the maximum attained during laying (706 g). Nearly all of the weight gain of females occurred on the breeding grounds and was the result of fat deposition and increases in the weights of the reproductive organs. Body weights of hens decreased 164 g during laying and incubation. Utilization of stored fat for egg production accounted for most of this weight loss. The lack of significant changes in the ash-free lean dry mass of the carcass as well as a change in food habits indicated that the protein requirements for the clutch are obtained by foraging for invertebrates during laying. Weight losses during incubation were small, indicating that hens are able to meet nearly all incubation energy requirements by foraging during inattentive periods. Female Wood Ducks satisfy their nutrient and energy requirements during the reproductive cycle by foraging and the use of endogenous reserves. Adaptations that maximize the use of stored lipids for egg production and facilitate the conservation of endogenous protein and the acquisition of dietary protein enable hens to produce and incubate large clutches of relatively large eggs without significant changes in body protein.
10.2307/1369562|We examined the initial effects of Hurricane Andrew on nest site availability and abundances of seven species of cavity-nesting birds and the Northern Parula (Parula americana) in a large bottomland hardwood forest associated with the Atchafalaya River in Louisiana. As hurricane damage increased, so did the density of understory vegetation and the number of snags, however, the abundance of cavities did not change. None of the abundances of the individual cavity-nesting species were related to hurricane damage or the availability of cavities. Northern Parula abundance was negatively correlated with hurricane damage and density of understory vegetation. The low abundance of this species in forests heavily damaged by the hurricane may be due to loss of canopy foraging habitat or of Spanish moss (Tillandsia usneoides), one of its principal nesting sites.
10.2307/1368439| To determine the thermoregulatory significance of roosts used by Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) wintering in Indiana, we measured microclimatological variables inside and outside the roost and combined these measurements with earlier laboratory studies carried out in a wind tunnel. Air temperatures and vapor densities measured inside the roost did not differ from those outside the roost; however, the roost did afford significant shielding from winds present outside the roost, reducing wind speeds by about a factor of five. Shielding from wind was about four times as important to the birds' heat budget as was shielding from long-wave radiative exchanges. Despite the great reduction in wind speed, energetic cost of occupying the roost was 2.1  SMR as opposed to 2.3  SMR outside the roost. The selection of open roosts by small birds has limited advantages for energy conservation at low air temperatures. Fasting time, rather than direct thermoregulatory stress, is probably the critical factor for small birds roosting in winter. 
1370693| Recent evidence suggests that avian facultative hypothermic responses are more common, and occur in a wider variety of ecological contexts, than previously thought. The capacity for shallow hypothermia (rest-phase hypothermia) occurs throughout the avian phylogeny, but the capacity for pronounced hypothermia (torpor) appears to be restricted to certain taxa. Families in which torpor has been reported include the Todidae, Coliidae, Trochilidae, Apodidae, Caprimulgidae, and Columbidae. Facultative hypothermia occurs in species ranging in body mass (M<sub>b</sub>) from <3 g to ca. 6500 g. Minimum body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>) during hypothermia is continuously distributed from 4.3C to ca. 38C. The physiological distinction between torpor and rest-phase hypothermia is unclear. Whereas these two responses have traditionally been distinguished on the basis of T<sub>b</sub>, we find little support for the biological reality of specific T<sub>b</sub> limits. Instead, we argue that emphasis should be placed on understanding the relationship between metabolic and T<sub>b</sub> reduction and the capacity to respond to external stimuli. Patterns of thermoregulation during avian hypothermic responses are relatively variable, and do not necessarily follow the entry-maintenance-arousal patterns that characterize mammalian responses. Avian hypothermic responses are determined by a suite of ecological and physiological determinants including food availability, ambient temperature, hormone levels, and breeding cycle. /// Evidencias recientes sugieren que las respuestas facultativas de la hipotermia aviar son ms comunes y ocurren en una gran cantidad de contextos ecolgicos, a diferencia de lo que anteriormente se pensaba. La capacidad de una hipotermia ligera (hipotermia de descanso) ocurre en toda la filogenia de las aves, pero la capacidad de mantener una hipotermia pronunciada (torpor) aparece slo en ciertos taxones. El torpor ha sido reportado en las familias Todidae, Coliidae, Trochilidae, Apodidae, Caprimulgidae y Columbidae. La hipotermia facultativa ocurre en especies con un peso corporal (M<sub>b</sub>) de <3 g hasta 6.5 kg. Durante la hipotermia, la temperatura mnima corporal (T<sub>b</sub>) est distribuda contnuamente entre 4.3C y 38C. La diferencia fisiolgica entre el torpor y la hipotermia de descanso no es clara. Tradicionalmente se ha reconocido que las dos respuestas se basan en la T<sub>b</sub>. Sin embargo, nosotros encontramos pocas evidencias biolgicas sobre lmites especficos de la T<sub>b</sub>. Por el contrario, nosotros argumentamos que el nfasis debe enfocarse en la relacin entre la reduccin metablica y de T<sub>b</sub> y la capacidad de responder a estmulos externos. Los patrones de termoregulacin de las respuestas hipotrmicas de las aves son relativamente variables y no necesariamente siguen los patrones de entrada-mantenimiento-elevacin que caracterizan estas respuestas en los mamferos. Las respuestas de la hipotermia en aves estn determinadas por la interaccin entre factores ecolgicos y fisiolgicos como disponibilidad de alimentos, temperatura ambiental, niveles hormonales y ciclo reproductivo. 
10.2307/1369723|The timing of pair formation varies within and among species of ducks. In this study we documented the chronology of pair formation in a population of wintering Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in southwestern British Columbia. Harlequin Ducks began forming pair bonds in October and over half of the females were paired by December. This timing is much earlier than other ducks of similar size. A segment of this population was individually marked, and we documented the reunion of mates in subsequent years. In all cases where both members of the pair returned to their wintering grounds they reunited in the fall. New pair bonds, involving young males and females, were formed in the spring. We suggest that pair reunion in this species reduces the costs of courtship and pair bond maintenance and allows males to pair early in the nonbreeding season, compared to other species.
10.2307/1368873|To determine whether habitat-related differences in diets of House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) were reflected in their blood, we measured hematocrits and plasma concentrations of cholesterol, albumin, uric acid, and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) of sparrows from urban and rural habitats in Centre County, Pennsylvania, during the breeding season. We also determined the protein and fat content of food samples recovered from sacrificed birds. Significantly elevated plasma cholesterol and BUN levels in House Sparrows from the urban area reflected the higher fat and protein content of the urban diet. Albumin and uric acid levels were also higher in urban than in rural birds, but not significantly so. Blood values were further influenced by age, sex, and date of collection. The analysis of blood may be useful in assessing the quality of diets eaten by wild birds.
10.2307/1370415|We tracked the movements of Common Murres (Uria aalge), Thick-billed Murres (U. lomvia), and Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) using surgically implanted satellite transmitters. From 1994-1996, we tagged 53 birds from two colonies in the Gulf of Alaska (Middleton Island and Barren Islands) and two colonies in the Chukchi Sea (Cape Thompson and Cape Lisburne). Murres and puffins ranged 100 km or farther from all colonies in summer, but most instrumented birds had abandoned breeding attempts and their movements likely differed from those of actively breeding birds. However, murres whose movements in the breeding period suggested they still had chicks to feed foraged repeatedly at distances of 50-80 km from the Chukchi colonies in 1995. We detected no differences in the foraging patterns of males and females during the breeding season, nor between Thick-billed and Common Murres from mixed colonies. Upon chick departure from the northern colonies, male murres--some believed to be tending their flightless young--drifted with prevailing currents toward Siberia, whereas most females flew directly south toward the Bering Sea. Murres from Cape Thompson and Cape Lisburne shared a common wintering area in the southeastern Bering Sea in 1995, and birds from Cape Lisburne returned to the same area in the winter of 1996. We conclude that differences in foraging conditions during summer rather than differential mortality rates in winter account for contrasting population trends previously documented in those two colonies.
10.1525/cond.2012.110144|Nestlings communicate with parents via begging, but what does begging signal and how do parents allocate food to their nestlings? We tested the signal-of-need (SoN) and signal-of-quality (SoQ) hypotheses for nestling begging in the Red-winged Blackbird (
10.2307/1367126|Labile protein reserve dynamics were studied in postbreeding adult male Redheads (Aythya americana) at Lake Winnipegosis, Manitoba, from 1974 to 1977. Changes in tissue masses were related to molt and behavioral activity. Total body protein fluctuated seasonally but tended to increase from breeding to late fall. Redheads did not increase foraging time to meet the nutritional demands of the simultaneous wing molt. Protein Reserve Index (PRI) increased from the late premolt period to the first half of the flightless phase each year. Losses in breast muscle from late premolt to early wing molt were not compensated by the increasing weight of leg muscles. Breast protein may have shifted to growing feathers or other concurrent tissue growth. Breast muscle gained weight over the latter half of the flightless phase in 1977. Changes in locomotor muscle size were related to overall PRI, foraging time, and anticipated seasonal use rather than simply use-disuse phenomena. Non-breeding male Redheads maintained significantly higher PRI from breeding to late molt and appeared to more easily meet seasonal protein requirements than birds which had bred previously.
3247771| The Northern Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) is listed as a threatened species. However, the range description given at the time of listing is inconsistent with the range delineation given by the American Ornithologists' Union checklist of North American birds. Despite the quandary that this inconsistency represents regarding the area of protection afforded the Northern Spotted Owl, the range used in listing is consistent with the actual range suggested by mtDNA haplotypes diagnostic for the subspecies. The range description used in the listing decision of the Northern Spotted Owl and in many conservation plans have been repeated through time without a formal revision or basis for support. Based on current knowledge of Spotted Owl locations we revise the range limits for both Northern and California (S. o. occidentalis) Spotted Owls. /// La lechuza Strix occidentalis caurina se considera amenazada. Sin embargo, la descripcin de su rango de distribucin hecha al momento en que fue incluida en la lista de especies amenazadas es inconsistente con la delimitacin de su rango hecha por la lista de chequeo de aves de Norte Amrica de la American Ornithologists' Union. A pesar de la incertidumbre que esta inconsistencia representa con respecto al rea de proteccin con que cuenta S. o. caurina, el rango empleado al incluirla en la lista es consistente con el rango real sugerido por haplotipos de ADN mitocondrial diagnsticos para esta subespecie. La descripcin del rango de distribucin empleada para tomar la decisin de incluir a S. o. caurina en la lista de aves amenazadas y para muchos planes de conservacin ha sido repetida a travs del tiempo sin una revisin formal fundamentada. Con base en el conocimiento actual, en este estudio revisamos los lmites de los rangos de S. o. caurina y de la subespecie de California, S. o. occidentalis. 
40306131|We measured the reproductive rate of Red-shouldered Hawks (
4096485| We examined nest-site selection and nesting success in Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed (Ammodramus caudacutus) and Seaside Sparrows (A. maritimus), at seven sites in Connecticut. We found 160 Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrow nests and 23 Seaside Sparrow nests, and compared characteristics of their locations to each other and to random locations. We tracked success of all nests, quantified nest productivity and causes of nest losses, and tested for habitat differences between successful and unsuccessful nests. Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows nested in higher than average locations, where the vegetation was taller and more dense than at random locations, where there was a deep layer of thatch, and where salt-meadow cordgrass (Spartina patens) dominated the vegetation. There was little evidence that habitat characteristics influenced the success of nesting birds, but the timing of nest initiation relative to spring tides was important. Seaside Sparrow nests occurred in even taller vegetation, that was more sparse than average and dominated by the tall form of smooth cordgrass (S. alterniflora). Habitat influenced the success of Seaside Sparrow nests, but timing did not; on average, successful nests occurred in taller vegetation. Model comparisons suggest that vegetation structure influences site selection more than species composition or inherent differences among marshes. Overall, our results indicate that nest flooding is a major threat to successful reproduction in both species, but they have different strategies to avoid flooding. Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows time their reproduction to avoid especially high tides, while Seaside Sparrows avoid flooding spatially by nesting in tall vegetation. /// Examinamos la seleccin de sitios de nidificacin y el xito de nidificacin en Ammodramus caudacutus y A. maritimus, en siete sitios en Connecticut. Encontramos 160 nidos de A. caudacutus y 23 nidos de A. maritimus y comparamos las caractersticas de los lugares de localizacin de los nidos entre s y con sitios elegidos al azar. Seguimos el xito de todos los nidos, cuantificamos la productividad y las causas de p rdida de los nidos y evaluamos las diferencias de hbitat entre nidos exitosos y no exitosos. A. caudacutus nidific a mayor altura que las localizaciones promedio, donde la vegetacin fue ms alta y ms densa que los lugares al azar, donde hubo un estrato ms profundo de materia orgnica no descompuesta, y donde Spartina patens fue la vegetacin dominante. No encontramos evidencia fuerte de que las caractersticas del hbitat influenciaran el xito de las aves nidificantes, pero la fecha de inicio de la nidificacio fue importante en relacin a las mareas de primavera. Los nidos de A. maritimus se ubicaron en vegetacin an ms alta, la cual present una distribucin mas esparcida que el promedio, y estuvo dominada por la forma alta de S. alterniflora. El hbitat innuend el xito de nidificacin de A. maritimus, pero la fecha no lo hizo. En promedio, los nidos exitosos se ubicaron en vegetacin mas alta. Las comparaciones de modelos multivariados sugirieron que la estructura de la vegetacin tuvo una mayor influencia sobre la seleccion del hbitat que la composicin de especies o las diferencias inherentes entre marjales. En trminos generales, nuestros resultados indican que la inundacion de los nidos es una amenaza importante para la reproduccin exitosa de ambas especies, pero stas tienen estrategias diferentes para evitar las inundaciones. A. caudacutus programa temporalmente su reproduccin para evitar las mareas particularmente altas, mientras que A. maritimus evita las inundaciones ubicando sus nidos en vegetacin alta. 
10.2307/1369385|Female Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos; n = 249) were collected from grassland and parkland habitats in western and eastern Saskatchewan to compare the use of stored nutrients by breeding birds in these two habitats. The use of nutrient reserves varied little between habitats. Fat and mineral use did differ between collection sites. Protein reserves were not used during laying and protein levels did not differ among sites. Body fat declined at a rate of -0.6 g per gram of clutch fat deposited at the western grassland (WG) site whereas fat declined -1.5 g for every gram invested in clutch fat in other females. Body fat contributed 8.2% of the energy needed by WG females during the formation of a 10 egg clutch and 20.7% of energy needs during clutch formation for females from all other sites. WG females did not rely upon stored minerals during egg formation; however, body ash contributed 11-13 g for a 10 egg clutch at other sites, enough for about 1 egg shell. Based on ovarian follicle development of late layers, WG females would lay similar sized clutches (11.1; n = 14) to females breeding at other sites (10.6; n = 41), despite using much less stored body fat. This result does not support food limitation hypotheses which predict that the amount of stored body fat limits clutch size in mallards.
10.1525/cond.2012.120049|Few studies have examined raptor reproduction in response to land-use change in sub-Saharan Africa, hampering conservation efforts to address regional declines. To further our understanding of mechanisms underlying the dramatic declines of West African raptors, we examined the relationship between environmental conditions, nest density, and measures of reproduction in the Grasshopper Buzzard (
10.2307/1368183| Common Murres (Uria aalge) were found dead on Oregon central coast beaches every July-September from 1978 through 1990, but the magnitude of the mortality varied yearly. Many more hatching-year (HY) than after-hatching-year (AHY) murres usually were found dead. In some years, most HY murre mortalities happened shortly after HY murres had departed their natal colony, but, in other years, most mortalities occurred after HY murres had been at sea for some time and had grown substantially. These summer mortalities are not a recent phenomenon and, in spite of these mortalities, the total number of AHY murres censused at 15 Oregon colonies did not decrease between 1979 and 1988. Shooting, oiling, or entanglement in fishing gear appeared to cause few HY mortalities. The greatest number of beached HY murres occurred just before the 1982-1983 El Nio, and the fewest were found in 1983 during the El Nio. 
10.2307/1368688|In the majority of clutches of Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) one of the eggs is frequently slightly to much paler than the others. I address the question why this may be so and I test the hypothesis that this egg, once a predator is at the nest, draws attention to itself and is thus subject to selective predation by conspecifics. In three-, four- and five-egg clutches, last-laid eggs were significantly smaller than all the other eggs in each clutch and second-laid eggs were generally the largest. In 74% of the clutches in which a pale egg was present this was the last-laid egg, while the first-laid egg was the palest one in 18% of the clutches. The larger the clutch, the greater the chance that one of the eggs was a pale one. In completed clutches, the first egg to be taken by a predator was significantly more often (a) the first- or last-laid egg in the clutch than a central egg and (b) the palest egg. The mean volume of depredated eggs did not differ significantly from the others so size per se was not the reason why they were taken. Last-laid eggs are particularly expendable as they have a significantly reduced hatching success due to asynchronous hatching.
10.2307/1368799|Colony attendance by Least Auklets (Aethia pusilla) was monitored during three breeding seasons at St. Paul Island, Alaska. Maximum counts of birds attending one 150-m
10.2307/1368686|I examined the relationships among brood survival in House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) and Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) and rates of nest-box use, species interference, and nest predation. Tree Swallows nested in boxes in one of three woodlands occupied by House Wrens. Over a 4-year period, clutch mortality rates in swallows were significantly higher than those in wrens, but wrens on swallow-free plots had lower failure rates than wrens that coexisted with swallows. Though conspecifics interfered at 9 of 99 (9%) wren nests, predation was the major cause of wren nest failure, accounting for 70% of 27 unsuccessful attempts. Increased nest failure in wrens was associated with increased rates of box use. In contrast, clutch mortality in Tree Swallows was related to nest interference by wrens. Of 29 swallow nests, 13 (45%) showed signs of interference by wrens, and eight of these 13 (62%) were initiated in boxes containing empty "dummy" nests built earlier by wrens. House Wrens are interference competitors because they exclude swallows from boxes by destroying swallow nests. Destroying nests of other species has advantages for wrens if high concentrations of empty nests, including dummy nests, inhibits search efficiency of predators. An experimental approach is recommended for testing the hypothesis that House Wrens build dummy nests and destroy heterospecific nests because empty nests deceive predators.
4096509| It is well established that birds use fat stores to primarily fuel migration; however, few studies have focused on the causes and consequences of observed seasonal changes in fatty acid composition of fat stores in birds. We propose and test two hypotheses that address the causes of these seasonal changes in composition of fat stores: (1) diet composition determines fatty acid composition of fat stores, and (2) birds selectively metabolize and store certain fatty acids during migration in lieu of changing their diet. When we offered Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceous) choices between diets that differed only in fatty acid composition, vireos preferred diets with more triolein over diets with more tristearin and tripalmitin, and these preferences were similar between seasons. We also collected fat samples six times throughout the year from captive Red-eyed Vireos fed one of two diets differing in fatty acid composition, and found that fatty acid composition of stored fat differed by diet and changed over time, although these changes were not season-specific or consistent with the selective-metabolism hypothesis. Thus, fatty acid composition of stored fat was primarily a product of diet composition; selective metabolism possibly played a minor, but important, role. Given recent evidence that fatty acid composition of birds affects their energy expenditure during intense exercise, the implication is that birds at stopover sites can influence the fatty acid composition of their body fat by selective feeding, and this can significantly affect the energetic cost of migration. /// Se sabe que las aves utilizan reservas de grasa principalmente como fuente de energa durante la migracin; sin embargo, pocos estudios han analizado las causas y consecuencias de los cambios estacionales en la composicin de cidos grasos de las reservas de grasa de las aves. Aqu proponemos y probamos dos hiptesis que se relacionan con las causas de los cambios estacionales en la composicin de las reservas de grasa: (1) la composicin de la dieta determina la composicin de cidos grasos de las reservas de grasa, y (2) las aves metabolizan y almacenan de manera selectiva ciertos cidos grasos durante la migracin, en lugar de cambiar sus dietas. Ofrecimos a individuos de la especie Vireo olivaceous para que elijan entre dietas que slo diferan en la composicin de cidos grasos, los cules prefirieron dietas con ms trioleina que dietas con ms tristearina y tripalmitina, y estas preferencias fueron similares entre estaciones. Colectamos adems muestras de grasa, en seis oportunidades a lo largo del ao, de individuos en cautiverio alimentados con una de las dos dietas disponibles, las que difirieron en la composicin de cidos grasos. Encontramos que la composicin de cidos grasos de las reservas de grasa difiri en relatin a las dietas y vari a lo largo del tiempo, aunque estos cambios no fueron estacionalmente especficos ni coherentes con la hiptesis de metabolismo selectivo. Por lo tanto, la composicin de cidos grasos de las reservas de grasa fue principalmente el producto de la composicin de la dieta; el metabolismo selectivo probablemente jug un papel menor, aunque importante. Existe evidencia reciente que sugiere que la composicin de cidos grasos en las aves afecta el gasto energtico que tienen durante perodos de ejercicios intensos, lo que implica que las aves pueden influir sobre la composicin de los cidos grasos en sus reservas de grasa al alimentarse de manera selectiva en los sitios de parada migratoria, lo que puede afectar significativamente el costo energtico de la migracin. 
40306202|Theory suggests habitats should be chosen according to their relative evolutionary benefits and costs. It has been hypothesized that aspen (
10.2307/1370246|To determine the factors that influence a female's decision of whether or not to re-lay, we removed first clutches from 17 marked female Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) in a nest-box population in eastern Ontario, Canada. Females and nests were then monitored to determine whether a replacement clutch was laid. Forty-one percent of females laid replacement clutches. First clutches of those females that laid replacement clutches were significantly larger than those of females that did not relay. This suggests that female quality, indicated by having higher levels of expendable energy or greater foraging skill or efficiency, is the determining factor as to whether or not a replacement clutch will be laid. For birds that re-laid, the replacement clutch was significantly smaller than the first clutch. This suggests either a depletion of energy reserves with each subsequent nesting attempt, or an individual female's energetic tradeoffs to ensure her own survival to the next breeding season.
10.2307/1369640| Dummy eggs were added to naturally incubated clutches of Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica), an arctic-nesting species, in order to evaluate egg temperature during laying and incubation, and factors influencing egg cooling rate during female recesses. As laying progressed, both nest attentiveness by females and egg temperature progressively increased. Although the time spent at nest after laying the penultimate egg was relatively high (69% vs. 91% during incubation), mean egg temperature was still 5.7C lower than during the early incubation period. This suggests that little embryonic development began before clutch completion. Thereafter, egg temperature averaged 37.1  0.1C during periods where females were present, a value that decreased only slightly when incubation recesses are included (36.8C). This is a high temperature in comparison to other arctic-nesting geese. A modest increase (1.7C) in mean egg temperature was observed as incubation progressed, but egg temperature was not influenced by clutch size or by the laying date of the first egg. During recesses lasting 24.7  1.3 min on average, egg temperature dropped by 2.8  0.3C, at an instantaneous rate of 0.23  0.02C hr<sup>-1</sup> C<sup>-1</sup>. Cooling rates increased under windy conditions and decreased with high solar radiation, but were little affected by air temperature. 
10.2307/1369420| We determined the importance of three landfills to a population of nesting Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus, 3,250 pairs) on Lake Erie, Ohio, from May-July 1992. Fish was the dominant food of adults and chicks throughout the study. Occurrence of garbage in the diet of adults and chicks remained low through chick-rearing then increased after fledging. Presence of telemetered adults at their nest sites decreased from incubation through post-fledging, in contrast to their increased presence at landfills during the same periods. Overall, females visited landfills more frequently and stayed longer than males; however, use of landfills by both sexes was minimal (<4% of total time) during all periods. Overall, gulls spent 43% and 4% of their time daily at the nest site and landfills, respectively. We estimate 80% of the time remaining was spent on Lake Erie, presumably to forage. The estimated daily mean number of adult Herring Gulls at the landfills increased from incubation (143) to chick-rearing (723) to post-fledging (1,912). We estimate that 5-7%, 12-19%, and 35-55% of the adult nesting population was present at landfills at least once during incubation, chick-rearing, and post-fledging, respectively. The population turnover rate of adult Herring Gulls at one landfill decreased 50% from incubation and chick-rearing to post-fledging. Significantly more gulls at the landfills were observed on areas other than exposed refuse and were not actively foraging, suggesting that landfills are important to Herring Gulls for other reasons such as loafing or social interaction. We conclude that landfills are unimportant to nesting Herring Gulls when alternate, higher quality food (e.g., fish) is available. The increased use of landfills by Herring Gulls during post-fledging, however, suggests that gull activity at landfills located near airports could dramatically affect aircraft safety during this time of year. 
10.2307/1367879| The egg temperature (T<sub>egg</sub>) of Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) was measured throughout incubation and under natural variations in environmental conditions at high altitude. Information on T<sub>egg</sub> air temperature (T<sub>a</sub>), nest placement and attentiveness patterns was integrated in order to elucidate adaptive forms of incubation behavior. Despite wide daily variations in ambient conditions, incubating females were able to maintain mean T<sub>egg</sub> between 34 and 38C. Large oscillations in T<sub>egg</sub> (17.8-43.0C) occurred when females were foraging, especially during early morning and late afternoon when T<sub>a</sub>s were low. Apparently low and fluctuating temperatures were not detrimental to embryo development. High T<sub>egg</sub>s did not occur because females prevented exposure of eggs to solar heating by remaining on the nest during critical periods. Mean T<sub>egg</sub> was significantly higher in ground than in aerial nests. Habitat availability seemed to be of major importance for selection of nest height. Orientation of nests with respect to the vegetational mass in which they were built was non-random and was probably related to prevailing winds or to sun exposure. 
10.2307/1368446|A 3-year study of interactions between frugivorous birds (11 species) and fleshy-fruited plants with bird-dispersed seeds (eight species) documented the diffuseness of the mutualism between the taxa. We found considerable annual variation in degree of frugivory, principal fruits in the diet, and dietary diversity for most of the frugivores. There were no consistent correlations between fruit or seed size and gape width, body size, or diversity of consumers. Mutual dependency of bird species and plant species was very limited. The birds could usually obtain 1 to 2% of their metabolically effective body mass in fruit pulp/minute, but they did not concentrate their foraging on the fruits yielding the greatest intake rate. Subcanopy and understory foragers seldom changed foraging stratum and may constitute two guilds of seed dispersal agents, from the perspective of the plants. These guilds differed consistently in average body size, tendency to void seeds by regurgitation, occurrence in years of low fruit abundance, frequency of foraging on clumped fruiting displays, and in speed of movement away from a fruit source. However, three of the five subcanopy species have increased dramatically in abundance in the past 100 to 150 years, and so the dispersal regime for plant species whose fruits are eaten by these species may be different now from what it was. Most of the frugivores foraged preferentially in treefall gaps, and several species also shifted their foraging behavior toward increased fruit foraging in gaps. These observations reinforce other studies that have shown greater abundances of birds and greater rates of fruit removal in gaps. As a result of the preference for fruit foraging in gaps, bird-dispersed plants growing in gaps may achieve better seed dispersal than those in forest interior. Frugivores usually left a fruit source soon after feeding, so most seeds were carried some minimum distance away from the parent plant. However, the probability of departure varied with bird species and plant species, and bird species also differed in probable sites of seed deposition. The most efficacious dispersal agents were not necessarily the most common dispersers of any of the plants.
10.2307/1367507|To examine the hypothesis that the growth rates of emberizines are physiologically maximized and hence geographically invariant, we weighed the eggs and nestlings of White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys) from subarctic, subalpine, and low-altitude montane populations. We augmented these data with published information on another subalpine population and a Pacific maritime population. Clutch sizes ranged from a mode of three in the south to five in the north. Geographic variation in fresh egg weight was closely correlated with the size of the adult female. Other sources of variation, if any, were small. The mean incubation period was geographically invariant (about 12.2 d). The weight (water) loss of eggs during incubation averaged 18.4%, without statistically significant differences among four localities. There were no consistent differences in the synchrony of hatching in clutches of three, four or five eggs. Runt nestlings resulting from late hatching were atypical in the mainly five-egg clutches in the subarctic, but were more common in the unusual five-egg clutches of subalpine populations. The postnatal growth curves of nestlings in all six sample populations were virtually congruent, and thus independent of mean brood size and locality. We believe that it is unlikely that this would occur in such diverse populations unless growth rate were physiologically maximized. We would expect to find greater diversity if growth rates were submaximal and "optimized" in relation to the local environment.
10.2307/1367447|Female Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) collected in Maine during the summer, fall, and winter of 1974-1976 showed significant seasonal variation in body weight, nonfat dry weight, gizzard and pectoral muscle weight, and fat, moisture, and protein content. Variation of body weight within and among seasons was correlated more strongly with carcass protein content, and with fat content during seasons of heavy lipid deposition, than with three structural size variables (culmen, tarsus, and sternum). Regression equations including fat and protein as independent variables accounted for 80-90% of the annual and seasonal variation in body weight; structural size variables alone accounted for less than 30%. Immature females averaged 54 and 99 g lighter, and carried 54 and 59 g less fat than adults during the fall and winter. Ducks of both age classes lost weight in December and January. Adult and immature females metabolized 59 and 64 g of fat and 17 and 25 g of protein in winter compared with 46 g of fat during the nesting season. Nutrient reserves are thus equally as important for the winter survival of these birds as for successful reproduction. Seasonal changes in carcass composition suggest that (1) fat deposited in late fall provides an energy reserve during winter, (2) a reduction in lean weight during winter may lower daily energy requirements and increase the effective amount of energy reserves, and (3) declining body weights during late winter may be an endogenous rhythm that reflects a shift in the expected benefits of an energy reserve compared to the costs of carrying additional weight.
1370700| We studied productivity and nesting success of the Thick-billed Parrot (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha) during a 7-year period (1995-2001) in five nesting areas at the Sierra Madre Occidental in Mexico. Two breeding areas continue to be the breeding strong-holds for the species. We found 553 cavities with associated pairs and determined the outcome of 187 accessible nests. Of 510 eggs followed, 405 (79%) hatched, and 307 (60%) produced fledglings. Clutch size averaged 2.7 eggs, and mean reproductive output was 1.6 fledglings per egg-laying pair. Overall nest success was 80% and ranged from 88% in 1996 to 60% in 2000. This was higher than nest success of most psittacines, and we consider productivity excellent in remaining areas of good habitat. Nevertheless, the species has nearly disappeared from many areas of its former range that have been converted from old-growth coniferous stands to immature stands deficient in both nest sites and food. /// Estudiamos productividad y xito de anidacin de Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha a lo largo de un periodo de siete aos (1995 a 2001) en cinco reas de anidacin en la Sierra Madre Occidental en Mxico. Corroboramos que las dos principales reas de anidacin reportadas en la literatura continan siendo bastiones para la viabilidad de la especie. Encontramos 553 cavidades con parejas activas y evaluamos el desempeo reproductivo en 187 nidos accesibles. De 510 huevos considerados, 405 eclosionaron (79%), y 307 produjeron volantones (60%). Registramos 2.7 huevos por nidada y un desempeo reproductivo de 1.6 volantones por nidada. El xito general de anidacin fue del 80% y vari entre 88% en 1996 y 60% en el 2000. Comparados con cifras para otros psitcidos, los datos indican niveles altos de productividad para las reas de anidacin estudiadas. Sin embargo, la especie ha desaparecido de gran parte de su rango histrico, donde la actividad de extraccin forestal ha transformado el bosque maduro de conferas en rodales inmaduros con escasos sitios para anidacin y reducida disponibilidad de alimento. 
1369692|We studied the context of brood reduction through infanticide by communally breeding Guira Cuckoos (Guira guira) in central Brazil. During seven reproductive seasons, we monitored 142 nests from egg laying until fledging. Almost all nests (97%) lost eggs through ejection, and chick deaths occurred in 72% of all nests with hatchlings. There was evidence for infanticide in 38% of the nests that exhibited some mortality. We compared egg and chick mortality in the early part of the season with the later part, when insect abundance declines, but found no significant differences. Less than one-third of all nests monitored showed asynchronous hatching of eggs, and in those that did, chick death was not in reverse hatch order. Although there are several plausible explanations for infanticide, we highlight one likely candidate, which is its interpretation as a sexually selected trait where individuals gain reproductive benefits by provoking the group's nesting failure.
10.2307/1368235| A model has been devised by which to explore the efficiency of metabolic usage of seeds by granivorous birds in meeting simultaneously their water and energy needs. It is based on the premise that physiological specializations have occurred that enhance granivory, and that these, in turn, promote ecological freedom in foraging for a single resource (seeds) to meet water and energy needs rather than reliance upon two spatially and temporally separate resources. The model predicts that, if sufficient seeds are available, energy needs will be met, but that water needs may be met concomitantly through metabolic water production only by the existence of appropriate combinations of body mass, ambient temperature, and watering histories of the birds. According to the model positive water balance is achieved when these combinations result in rates of metabolic water production  evaporative water loss. The model predicts further that smaller (in mass) birds will more readily attain favorable states of water balance on a seed diet and under arid conditions than will larger birds, and that this phenomenon will apply independently of taxonomic affinity. 
10.2307/1366996|We tested two predictions of Morton's (1973) hypothesis that nestling frugivory becomes profitable as nestlings develop endothermy. Parent Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) fed nestlings a mixed diet of animal prey and fruit, mainly arthropods, throughout the 12-day nestling period. Fruit was brought infrequently to nestlings before the seventh day after hatching, by which time the young were largely endothermic. By 10 to 12 days after hatching, nestling diet comprised 30 to 35% fruit. Both predictions, (1) fruit should be fed to nestlings primarily after development of endothermy and (2) the amount of fruit fed should satisfy thermoregulatory needs of older nestlings, were supported. Older nestlings received enough fruit to fulfill most of their thermoregulatory, maintenance, and activity costs. Parent mockingbirds may feed nestlings an optimal mixture of animal protein, for growth, and fruit carbohydrates, for other energetic needs.
10.2307/1369711|We describe stopover ecology for 132 migrant radiomarked Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) relocated repeatedly along the Pacific Flyway of North America. Eighty-eight percent of radiomarked birds were detected at 1-5 sites north of their banding sites, at distances ranging from 240-4,000 km away. We compare length of stay and physical indices of Western Sandpipers banded at coastal sites (San Francisco Bay, California and Grays Harbor, Washington), and an interior, western Great Basin site (Honey Lake, California). Western Sandpipers radiomarked at the interior site had significantly shorter length of stays than birds radiomarked at coastal sites, and they had significantly lower fat scores. The ephemeral nature of Great Basin stopover sites and an increased risk of predation may explain some of this variation. Fat and body condition indexes explained little of the observed variation in length of stay of Western Sandpipers at banding and other stopover sites. Length of stay of birds radiomarked at Grays Harbor were significantly longer compared to birds radiomarked to the south that also stopped at Grays Harbor, suggesting a potential capture effect on length of stay of birds at banding sites. Mean length of stays at seven sites other than banding sites ranged from 1.1-3.3 days and were not significantly affected by sex of bird, year of study, or banding location. Length of stay of male Western Sandpipers at the Copper River Delta, Alaska became significantly shorter later in the migration period, but not for females. Coastal sites along the Pacific Flyway from San Francisco to the breeding grounds generally function as stopovers for Western Sandpipers instead of staging areas.
40306178|Altricial nestlings encase excrement in fecal sacs that parents remove by either ingesting them or transporting them away from the nest. Ingestion may allow energetically or nutritionally deprived parents to recapture energy or nutrients that might be lost because of nestlings' inefficient digestion (the "parental-nutrition hypothesis"), but ingestion may also permit parents to avoid flights from the nest that interfere with parental care (e.g., brooding young; the "economic-disposal hypothesis"). We used a hypothetico-deductive approach to test the two hypotheses' ability to account for fecal-sac ingestion by the Spotted Towhee (
10.2307/1369989|Throughout most of its range, the Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens) is generally associated with coniferous forests, but it also breeds in mixedwood and deciduous stands. To measure the relative use of deciduous and coniferous trees in pristine boreal mixedwood stands of northern Alberta, we examined the influence of conifer distribution on territory placement at the mesohabitat scale (25-ha study plots) and substrate use for singing and foraging at the microhabitat scale (within individual territories). Black-throated Green Warblers clustered their territories where conifers reached their highest density, and tended to avoid areas where conifers were rare or absent. At the microhabitat scale, logistic regression models indicate that tree species and diameter at breast height were significant predictors of tree use; Black-throated Green Warblers mainly used large white spruce (Picea glauca) trees as songposts and foraging substrates. For foraging, trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) and balsam poplar (P. balsamifera), the two most abundant tree species in our plots, were less frequently used than white spruce, whereas paper birch (Betula papyrifera) was used according to its availability. These results indicate that Black-throated Green Warblers were relatively stereotyped in their substrate use, in spite of the availability of both deciduous and coniferous trees. However, the treefall gaps and dense deciduous shrub layer typical of old boreal mixedwood stands might be important at the fledgling stage. Thus, the conversion of mixedwood forests into pure deciduous stands and conifer plantations could have negative impacts on this and other ecologically-similar species in the boreal forest.
10.2307/1369594| Terminal-egg neglect arises in Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) when parents begin to feed and brood the first two (a-, b-) newly hatched young, thereby disrupting incubation of the third (c-) egg. Mean temperature of pipped c-eggs dropped to 33.4C, significantly below that of the pipped a- (37.6C) and b- (36.6C) eggs. Experimental manipulation of neglect by placement of pipped c-eggs at chronologically earlier nests showed that both hatchability and time to hatch were unaffected by natural levels of neglect. Laboratory incubation confirmed that chilling pipped eggs to 33C does not affect hatching. Further chilling to 30C lowered hatchability and increased hatching times. Development was arrested at 27C. Although Herring Gulls clearly neglected terminal eggs during the final stages of incubation, it was entirely benign in that mean embryonic temperatures were maintained above levels that would cause damage. Last-hatched eggs in this species are evidently well-adapted, physiologically, to withstand chilling down to at least 33C, thereby enabling them to maintain full viability despite moderate levels of neglect during the hatching period. 
10.2307/1369328| Feeding ecology of 11 Sharp-skinned Hawk (Accipiter striatus) pairs nesting in aspen (Populus tremuloides), conifer (Abies, Picea spp.), and mixed aspen-conifer habitats in southwest Colorado was investigated during 1988-1989. Small birds (x= 20.9 g, SE = 0.8 g) and mammals (x = 41.1 g, SE = 3.3 g) comprised 91 and 9% of 513 prey identified at nests that fledged at least one young, respectively. Sixty percent of the birds eaten during the hawks' nestling and fledgling stages were nestlings or fledglings. Accordingly, median mass of birds eaten decreased from 17.4 g during incubation to 12.1 g during the nestling stage. Although more birds were consumed than mammals during all nesting stages (birds = 91.1%; mammals = 8.9%), the proportion of birds relative to mammals in diets progressively decreased from incubation through fledging. Taxa of birds in the diet were consumed in proportion to their occurrence in the most abundant of three different habitats surrounding nests, whereas some mammalian taxa were consumed in greater proportion than their relative "availability" in these habitats. This suggested that Sharp-shinned Hawks foraged opportunistically for birds, but may have selectively foraged for mammals. Differences in the habits of mammals (e.g., fossorial vs. terrestrial behavior), and hence their relative availability, may explain the apparent selection for certain species of mammals by Sharp-shinned Hawks. 
1370547| We investigated the timing and pattern of the development of foraging skills in juvenile Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis). Juveniles of known age, parentage, and in some cases sex were mist netted and tested in an aviary on Kent Island, an isolated island in the Bay of Fundy, Canada. Captive birds were exposed to three standardized and ecologically relevant foraging tasks: locating spittle bugs (Homoptera: Cercopidae) in spittle masses on goldenrod (Solidago rugosa) plants, small caterpillars under spruce (Picea glauca) bud scales, and beetle larvae under leaves. The feeding trials involved 33 juveniles aged 17-42 days, four independent juveniles whose precise ages were not known, and five adults for comparison. The performance of juvenile sparrows on all three tasks showed rapid improvement between 22 and 24 days of age. Thereafter, foraging proficiency (number of foraging attempts, number of prey obtained, foraging efficiency) did not improve significantly with age among juveniles; in fact, older juveniles performed as well as adults. Juvenile males obtained more prey items than juvenile females in aviary trials. Foraging proficiency in captivity was not a good predictor of survival to the following year, and it appeared not to be influenced by brood membership or parental age. The age at which foraging performance improved in captivity coincided with the age at which parents cease attending their fledglings in the field, suggesting that the duration of postfledging parental care may be determined by the speed at which juveniles can develop foraging skills. /// Investigamos el tiempo y el patrn de desarrollo de destreza para forrajear en juveniles de Passerculus sandwichensis. Se capturaron y se evaluaron juveniles de edad, origen, y (en algunos casos) sexo conocidos en una pajarera en Kent Island, Baha de Fundy, Canad. Las aves capturadas se expusieron a tres tareas de forrajeo estandarizadas y ecolgicamente relevantes: localizar insectos (Homoptera: Cercopidae) en su espuma en hierbas (Solidago), orugas pequeas en las ramitas de Picea glauca, y larvas de escarabajo debajo de hojas. Utilizamos 33 juveniles de 17-42 das de edad, 4 juveniles independientes de edades desconocidas y 5 adultos para comparar. El desempeo de los juveniles en las tres tareas mostr una mejora rpida entre 22 y 24 das de edad. A partir de entonces, la competencia al forrajear (nmero de intentos de forrajeo, nmero de presas obtenidas, eficiencia de forrajeo) no mejor significativamente con la edad entre los juveniles; de hecho, los juveniles mayores se desempearon tan bien como los adultos. Los machos juveniles consiguieron ms presas que las hembras en las pruebas. La competencia al forrajear en cautiverio predijo la sobrevivencia hasta el siguiente ao adecuadamente, y pareci no ser influenciada por la nidada a que se perteneca o por la edad de los padres. La edad en que la competencia al forrajear mejor en cautiverio coincidi estrechamente con la edad en que los padres dejan de cuidar a los volantones en el campo, lo cual sugiere que la duracin del cuidado de los padres despus de que los polluelos salen del nido puede ser determinada por la rapidez con que los juveniles puedan desarrollar destreza para forrajear. 
10.1525/cond.2009.090126|At the northern periphery of its range Brewer's Sparrow (
10.2307/1367211|We investigated the non-song vocal repertoire of the White-crowned Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys) during the breeding season of 1981. Nine distinct vocalizations were recorded from males. Females used five of these; no calls were recorded exclusively from females. This limited sexual dimorphism in repertoire suggests that both vocal and non-vocal cues may be used in sex recognition. Most calls occurred in a variety of situations and appeared to convey only generalized behavioral messages. The structure of those calls whose information content seemed clear conformed to the predictions of models of selection pressures determining the physical forms of both long- and short-distance animal vocalizations.
10.2307/1368269|During 1983 and 1984 one adult member of 20 pairs of breeding kestrels was removed from the wild during the third week of incubation. We measured several variables, e.g., relative prey abundance, female body condition, territory size, amount of adjacent habitat, and time of removal at each experimental territory. There was no relationship between the date of a removal and the probability of a lost mate being replaced, however, only pairs in which a replacement mate was found early in the season subsequently laid a clutch. Replacement occurred within small territories with high relative prey abundance, and large amounts of suitable, but undefended, habitat nearby. Replacements did not preferentially replace lost mates of females in good body condition. Significant negative correlations occurred between territory size and prey abundance, and between territory size and the amount of suitable, adjacent habitat. This suggests that surplus birds reside on the fringes of territories with high prey densities where competition with breeding birds for food is minimized. We suggest that surplus kestrels may not monitor territories to ensure replacement with the best potential for successful breeding, but that replacement occurs more frequently when mates are lost from territories where surplus birds forage nearby.
10.1525/cond.2011.100204|The mouth coloration of passerine nestlings is hypothesized to attract parental care by increasing the visual conspicuousness of begging chicks and/or by signaling the reproductive value of nestlings. Specifically, carotenoids are often hypothesized to mediate the latter relationship. In House Sparrow
10.2307/1369209|Male Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) that breed in Virginia begin their prebasic molt after breeding has ended, usually in August. Almost all males caught in late October have completed the molt. In 1989, we obtained anecdotal evidence that males whose testosterone (T) we maintained at artificially elevated levels beyond the end of the breeding season postponed or suppressed prebasic molt. To test the effect of T experimentally, in spring 1990 we implanted some males (T-males) with testosterone and others (C-males) with empty implants, and we released both groups to breed. We caught some members of both treatment groups in October and removed their implants. The T-males had delayed their prebasic molt, while the C-males were molting on schedule. Other implanted T- and C-males were not caught; these carried their implants into winter. Next spring we examined surviving males whose implants we had removed in October as well as males whose T- and C-implants had not been removed. T-males whose implants we had removed had molted completely, despite their delayed start, whereas T-males whose implants we had not removed had not molted. Still-implanted C-males had molted. We compared the minimum over-winter survival (i.e., return rates in spring) of the treatment groups. T- and C-males whose implants we had removed in October returned at the same rate, but among males whose implants we had not removed, significantly fewer T-males than C-males returned. The transition between reproduction and molt of male juncos apparently can be blocked by preventing the normal seasonal decline in T. This suggests a physiological basis for a possible trade-off between time allocated to reproduction and time allocated to molt. Our results indicate that males could maintain high T and prolong breeding, possibly into October, and still molt completely with no adverse effects. We consider why such a modification of schedule has not occurred. However, postponement of molt beyond some date in autumn, possibly late October, suppresses it altogether, as indicated by the failure to molt of the returning T-males whose implants we did not remove. This treatment group apparently suffered higher overwinter mortality, and we consider possible reasons.
10.2307/1368639|The relationship between egg volume and the size of hatchling Hooded Crows Corvus corone cornix, was studied in 1982 and 1984, in the Trondheim area, Central Norway. A high positive correlation was found between egg volume and the magnitude of all the morphological characters studied (total body mass, net body mass, tarsus length, wing length, bill tip length, and claw length), and between egg volume and the yolk sac mass of the hatchling. There was a tendency for a relative increase in yolk sac mass with increasing egg volume. There was also a high positive correlation between the magnitudes of the different morphological characters of the hatchlings. When making a principal component analysis of the morphological, yolk sac, and egg volume data, four groups were separated. The middle toe and claw length had high scores on one component, the yolk sac on a second component, the tarsus length on a third component, and the other morphological characters and egg volume had moderate to high scores on all three components. At hatching, the bill tip was the most developed feature, compared to the same character for nestlings 24 days old, followed by the lengths of the tarsus, middle toe, claw, wing, and total body mass. The order of development of the different morphological characters during the embryonic stage was adapted to the hatchling's needs during the hatching process.
10.2307/1367985| The nesting biology of the Aleutian Rosy Finch (Leucosticte griseonucha (arctoa) griseonucha) was studied on the maritime tundra of Amchitka Island in the Aleutian Islands, Alaska. Fifty active nests were found, all in buildings or other man-made structures. Nests were re-used with new material added each year. Their densities were not limited by the availability of buildings or good nest sites. The maximum density was 13.9 nests/100 ha. Unlike their alpine relatives, these birds were double-brooded, with eggs in the nest from late April to early June and again in late June through at least mid-July. Mean hatch date for the first brood was 26 May. Mean clutch size was 4.5 eggs (range = 3-6). Incubation lasted 12-14 days, the nestling period 15-22 days (x = 18 days). Egg survival during incubation was 73.9%, hatching success 93.9%, and nestling survival 79.1%, for an overall nest success of 54.9%. These high values are attributed to the near absence of predators on the island and to protected nest sites. 
10.2307/1367218|Observations since 1981 have conclusively documented the capacity of California Condors (Gymnogyps californianus) to lay replacement clutches within breeding seasons and to nest successfully on an annual basis. Deliberate encouragement of these capacities led to a better than three-fold increase in reproduction of the remnant population in 1983 and 1984.
3247762| Nest-site fidelity is associated with previous reproductive success in birds but is thought to be rare among territorial, open-cup nesting passerines. I investigated nest reuse decisions by Spotted Antbirds (Hylophylax naevioides) in central Panama. A quarter of all nest attempts were located at a previously used nest site, often within an extant nest structure. Within a breeding season, pairs preferred to reuse previously successful nest sites overall and were more likely to return to these sites for a consecutive nest attempt than they were to previously depredated nest sites. The fates of two nest attempts at the same location, however, were not associated with each other. The preference of Spotted Antbirds for reusing successful nests may be a short-term strategy to avoid sites recently discovered by predators, as pairs did reuse previously depredated nest sites for later nest attempts and did not prefer successful nest sites from previous breeding seasons. /// La fidelidad al sitio de nidificacin est asociada con el xito reproductivo previo en las aves, pero se cree que sta no es comn entre especies Passeriformes territoriales que construyen nidos de copa abierta. En este estudio investigu las decisiones de reutilizacin de nidos en Hylophylax naevioides en el centro de Panam. Una cuarta parte de todos los intentos de nidificacin se ubicaron en lugares previamente empleados para nidificar, a menudo al interior de estructuras de nidificacin remanentes. Dentro de una temporada reproductiva, las parejas prefirieron reutilizar sitios de nidificacin exitosos en general y fueron ms propensas a regresar a esos sitios para intentos de nidificacin consecutivos, que a sitios en donde sus nidos fueron depredados. Sin embargo, los resultados de dos intentos de nidificacin ocurridos en el mismo sitio no estuvieron asociados entre s. La preferencia de emplear repetidamente sitios existosos podra ser una estrategia de corto plazo empleada por H. naevioides para evitar lugares recientemente descubiertos por depredadores, ya que las parejas reutilizaron sitios donde sufrieron depredacin en intentos posteriores y no prefirieron lugares exitosos de estaciones reproductivas previas. 
10.2307/1370456|We analyzed speed of migration in two congeneric warblers, the Reed and the Sedge Warbler, Acrocephalus scirpaceus and A. schoenobaenus. Sedge Warblers migrated at a higher speed than Reed Warblers. The two species showed similar rates of fat deposition at our Swedish study site, although Sedge Warblers departed with lower fat loads. The higher speed of migration in Sedge Warblers and their lower departure fat loads suggest that they encounter stopover sites which offer higher relative fat deposition rates farther south. The amount of visible fat at the time of banding was positively related to the speed of migration. Estimates of speed of migration for the two species suggest that the recoveries were situated on average 76-111 km farther south per increase in fat score, corresponding to 58-85% of the expected distance a bird can cover by using the fuel of one unit of fat score.
10.2307/3247733|Painted Buntings, Passerina ciris, breed in two allopatric eastern and western breeding ranges that differ greatly from the breeding ranges of the two currently recognized subspecies (AOU 1957). These two populations differ dramatically in their timing and pattern of molt and migration. All age and sex classes in the western population typically begin fall migration at least two months earlier than their respective age and sex classes in the eastern population. These birds subsequently interrupt their fall migration in exclusively migratory areas in southern Arizona and northwestern Mexico to begin and complete their annual flight feather molt before continuing their fall migration. In contrast, birds in the eastern population usually complete flight feather molt on the breeding grounds before beginning fall migration. Last, the eastern and western populations winter in allopatric ranges; the eastern population winters in southern Florida, the Bahamas, Cuba, Jamaica, and Haiti, and the western population winters in southern Texas, Mexico and Central America. These data strongly indicate that no significant gene flow occurs between these populations, and suggests that they represent valid phylogenetic species. Two subspecies of Painted Buntings, pallidior and ciris, are currently recognized based on previous studies (Mearns 1911, Storer 1951) that documented variation between the eastern and western populations in winglength of adult (in definitive plumage) males and plumage color of adult males and females on the breeding ground. However, this study indicates that the patterns of variation in these characters in males and females within and between populations are inconsistent with the current subspecific geographic limits in this species, and that separating Painted Buntings into subspecies based on these criteria is not warranted.
10.2307/1370286|We surveyed Emperor Geese (Chen canagica) in western Alaska for avian hematozoa. Blood smears were collected from 134 adults and goslings in late July 1996, on their breeding grounds on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta. One of 134 (0.7%) Emperor Geese harbored Leucocytozoon simondi, representing a new host record for this parasite. No other hematozoa were detected. This is one of few reports of avian blood parasites from the arctic tundra.
10.2307/1369390|Spatial variation in the abundance of nonbreeding shorebirds can be predicted to varying degrees by the density of their prey species; strongest relationships obtain from studies encompassing large spatial scales (e.g., entire estuaries). We examined variation in shorebird distribution and abundance within microhabitats of the Mad River estuary, California, with the following null hypotheses: (1) shorebird spatial distribution was random, and (2) no relationship existed between bird abundance and invertebrate densities. Shorebirds exhibited nonrandom spatial distributions; species were highly clumped within the study area. Most foraging calidridine sandpipers (Calidris minutilla, C. mauri, and C. bairdii) aggregated in sandy areas within 1 m of the tide edge, where they foraged by probing for a burrow-dwelling amphipod, Corophium spp. By contrast, Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) and especially Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres) foraged by pecking in drier, coarse-grained substrates greater than 1 m from the tide edge. Corophium densities in sand exceeded those in cobble; Corophium densities explained significant variation (r
10.2307/1369255| We measured and analyzed 1,148 pellets of Northern Saw-whet Owls (Aegolius acadicus) in Sauk County, Wisconsin from 1986 to 1990. Pellets averaged 3.03 cm long  1.50 cm wide, and contained 0.645 prey individuals/pellet. Rodents comprised 84.5% of prey individuals and 92.0% of biomass in Saw-whet Owl diets. Deer mice (Peromyscus leucopus and P. maniculatus) comprised 67.7%, voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus and M. ochrogaster) 16.1%, and shrews (Blarina brevicauda and Sorex cinereus) 8.6% of prey individuals. The owls also ate songbirds, insects, and a bat. The owls' food-niche breadth was 2.17. 
1370354| The hypothesis that members of one species might benefit from nesting with heterospecifics has been proposed to explain the existence of mixed-species breeding colonies. Black Skimmers (Rhynchops niger) usually nest in close association with one of several tern species (Sterna spp.); benefits of this association might lead skimmers to use different nesting substrates than terns, thus facilitating coexistence. Manipulating availability of substrates, we found that skimmers exclusively nested on substrates normally occupied by terns, indicating that habitat partitioning detected in previous studies was not a result of species-specific preferences. Using arrays of tern, skimmer, and control decoys, we found that skimmers nested more often with conspecifics than with terns. Our results suggest that the tendency of skimmers to nest in association with terns, but on different substrates, may be more influenced by nesting sequence than from a preference to nest near terns. /// La hiptesis que sugiere que miembros de una especie podran recibir beneficios al anidar con organismos de diferentes especies ha sido propuesta para explicar la tendencia de algunas aves coloniales a formar grupos interespecficos de nidificacin. Individuos de Rhynchops niger generalmente anidan en asociacin con alguna de las diferentes especies de golondrinas marinas (Sterna spp.). Los beneficios de esta asociacin podran hacer que R. niger utilice diferentes substratos para anidar que aquellos utilizados por las golondrinas lo cual facilitara su coexistencia. Al manipular la disponibilidad de los substratos, se encontr que R. niger anida en substratos ocupados normalmente por golondrinas; indicando que la reparticin del hbitat observada en estudios previos no es el resultado de preferencias especie-especficas. Encontramos que los rayadores anidaron ms comnmente con miembros de su misma especie que con golondrinas cuando se les dio la opcin de elegir entre grupos al utilizar lneas de seuelos. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la tendencia de R. niger a anidar en asociacin con golondrinas en diferentes substratos podra estar ms influenciada por la secuencia de nidificacin, que por la preferencia de anidar en proximidad a las golondrinas marinas. 
10.2307/1369804|We tested whether contamination of avian blood by the parasite Haemoproteus could cause the amplification of false positive genetic markers generated by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). DNA was extracted from blood taken from five Rock Doves (Columba livia) infected with Haemoproteus, and one uninfected control individual. A drug treatment was administered to clear the infection, and a second DNA sample extracted. The parasitized and unparasitized DNA samples were used in RAPD reactions with 20 different 10-nucleotide primers, which produced 178 well-resolved markers. In no case were any of the reaction products specific to the parasitized samples, and in almost all cases the products were found consistently across all replications of infected and non-infected samples. The high ratio of avian to parasite DNA and the greater genome complexity of the host probably prevents the amplification of markers unique to parasite species such as Haemoproteus.
10.2307/1369530|Using allozymes, I examined genetic variation in 23 populations of four currently recognized subspecies of the Solitary Vireo (Vireo solitarius solitarius, V. s. alticola, V. s. cassinii, and V. s. plumbeus), with emphasis on the latter two taxa. Eighteen of 38 genetic loci (47.4%) were polymorphic. Intrataxon Nei's genetic distances were low (D = 0.0008) among populations of V. s. cassinii and V. s. plumbeus. Average intertaxon Nei's D ranged from zero (V. s. solitarius vs. V. s. alticola) to 0.0030 (V. s. solitarius vs. V. s. cassinii), 0.0033 (V. s. cassinii vs. V. s. alticola), 0.0283 (V. s. plumbeus vs. V. s. solitarius), 0.0288 (V. s. plumbeus vs. V. s. alticola), and 0.0294 (V. s. plumbeus vs. V. s. cassinii). Nei's D between the Yellow-throated Vireo (Vireo flavifrons) and the four taxa of Solitary Vireo ranged from 0.0430-0.0743. A mean F<sub>st</sub> value of 0.289 over all populations of V. solitarius, and across combined populations of V. s. cassinii and V. s. plumbeus, indicated pronounced genetic discontinuity between these two forms. Gene flow estimates between populations representing the subset of V. s. cassinii and V. s. plumbeus ranged from one individual every two generations (Wright's 1951 formula) to an average of 12 immigrants per generation over all populations (Slatkin's rare allele method). Based on strong allozymic divergence from the three other allopatric forms treated here, the Plumbeous Vireo (Vireo plumbeus) is a species. Although similar allozymically, the Cassin's Vireo (Vireo cassinii) and the Blue-headed Vireo (V. s. solitarius plus the "Mountain Vireo," V. s. alticola) also may deserve species status because data published by others demonstrate trenchant differences in voice and mtDNA base sequences.
10.2307/1369595|To study the winter ecology of Northern Shrikes in southwest Idaho, I observed the activities of six color-banded and six radio-tagged shrikes over the winters of 1988-1989 and 1989-1990. These shrikes occupied winter territories that averaged 216 ha in size (minimum convex polygon method). Over one-half of the activity of each shrike was confined to a core area of approximately 50 ha. Five of nine individual Northern Shrikes perched in or hunted within mesic areas significantly more than expected and four of the nine utilized grasslands significantly less than expected. Linear habitats such as riparian corridors and rimrock outcroppings appeared to be important to wintering shrikes since the former provided night roost habitat whereas the latter provided warm and productive areas for prey populations. I located 10 night roosts of Northern Shrikes. All were in deciduous shrubs with many small stems. Shrikes may depend upon these roosts for thermal protection and escape from predators.
40306125|The breeding schedules of birds may not change at a rate sufficient to keep up with the current pace of climate change, causing reduced reproductive success. This disruption of synchrony is called the "mismatch hypothesis." We analyzed data on the breeding of Thick-billed Murres (
10.2307/1367024|In the tropics, birds have not been shown to defend fruit-bearing trees or vines, even though tropical birds defend other sources of food at high density, particularly flowers. I studied foraging of frugivorous birds in New Guinea and describe here four examples of feeding territories at fruiting woody plants: 1) a female Blue Bird of Paradise (Paradisaea rudolphi) at Schefflera pachystyla, 2) a male Indian Koel (Eudynamis scolopacea) at Chisocheton sp., 3) a male Cinnamon-breasted Wattlebird (Melidectes torquatus) at Dendrocnide ternatensis, and 4) a Reinwardt's Long-tailed Pigeon (Reinwardtoena reinwardtsi) at Schefflera chaetorrhachis. The birds of paradise, wattlebird and pigeon were individually recognizable. All four holders of feeding territories ("defenders") attempted to chase away all other visiting birds ("visitors") and succeeded, except in the case of the wattlebird, where some visitors were larger than it was. Chases were not always followed by feeding. Defenders either spent long periods at their feeding territories or visited them repeatedly. They held their feeding territories over several days.
10.2307/1368956| We compared the distributions of resident breeding, resident nonbreeding, and northern and southern migrant Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) on the northern Chesapeake Bay from 1984-1988. Breeding eagles were dispersed throughout most of the study area and were resident all year. Dispersion of Chesapeake nonbreeding eagles was similar to the dispersion of breeding birds on the northern Chesapeake in summer and winter. Chesapeake nonbreeding eagles moved throughout most of the bay, 5% of radio-tagged eagles were off the bay during any month. Radio-tagged northern migrants arrived in late fall (x = 21 December, n = 7, range = 61 days) and departed in early spring (x = 27 March, n = 14, range = 43 days). In contrast to local eagles, northern migrants were concentrated almost exclusively on Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. Radio-tagged southern migrants arrived throughout April-August (x = 6 June, n = 11, range = 94 days) and departed from June-October (x = 3 September, n = 22, range = 119 days). Southern migrants were more dispersed than the northern migrants but less dispersed than the resident eagles. Northern Chesapeake eagle abundance peaked twice annually; in winter (e.g., 261 eagles, December 1987), due to the presence of northern eagles, and in summer (e.g., 604 eagles, August 1988), due to the presence of southern birds. 
10.2307/1367990|Communal roosting is often a regional phenomenon that involves wide-ranging and long-lasting relationships among associations. We examined roosting behavior on a scale sufficiently large to detect regional and seasonal patterns. For five roosting seasons (June-November), we studied the population dynamics of all roosting flocks of European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and Common Grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) located within a 1,000-km
10.2307/1370320|Comparisons of song parameters, including syllable length and maximum and minimum frequency, from six populations of the Hutton's Vireo (Vireo huttoni) show differences in syllable length and minimum frequency measurements. Specifically, syllables produced by Pacific coastal birds tend to be shorter than those from southwest interior populations, although these differences are not statistically significant at the pairwise-comparison level. Syllables produced by most coastal populations have significantly higher mean minimum frequencies when compared with those from interior populations. Differences between songs of coastal and interior populations are consistent with genetic differences that separate the two groups. Differences in song may be attributed to the acoustical properties of coastal versus interior habitats.
10.2307/1368156|The presence of males with broods of Silver Teal (Anas versicolor), Speckled Teal (A. flavirostris), Red Shoveler (A. platalea), and Brown Pintail (A. georgica) was recorded, and the behavior of brood-tending males and females was observed, during parts of three breeding seasons, November-December, 1985-1987, on various wetlands in Buenos Aires Province and in the vicinity of Bariloche, Rio Negro Province, Argentina. Biparental care was well developed in Silver Teal. Some Speckled Teal broods were escorted by both parents, but others were cared for by the female only. Brown Pintail males were present at times with one-third of the broods seen, but they showed no brood-care behavior. Males were rarely seen with Red Shoveler broods and there was no indication of male brood care. Our observations suggest that pair bonds may be long-term in Silver Teal and perhaps in some Speckled Teal, but males deserted their brood-tending females in Red Shoveler and Brown Pintail. We emphasize that behavioral observations are needed to determine whether males associating with broods are really contributing to parental care in Southern Hemisphere Anas species.
4500975|We measured metabolic heat production (
10.2307/1367037|Metabolic rates of incubating and non-incubating adult Wandering Albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) were measured using the birds' rate of oxygen consumption. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) was 1,755 kJ day
10.2307/1368989| We measured apparent metabolizability of organic matter, gross energy, nitrogen and cell wall constituents of pelleted alfalfa by Lesser Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens. We also used simultaneous measurements of energy expenditure and apparent metabolizable energy intake to estimate heat increment of feeding and net energy for production and maintenance. Apparent metabolizability of energy was 46% as a result of substantial retention of dietary cellulose (45%). Mean slope of the relationship between energy expenditure and apparent metabolizable energy intake, which estimates heat increment at feeding, was 0.33. One minus the slope, 0.67, was our estimate of the proportion of apparent metabolizable energy available for maintenance and production. Resting metabolic rate at zero apparent metabolizable energy intake ranged from 361 kJ kg
10.2307/1367831| Incubation rhythms and brood attentiveness of radio-marked Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) were studied in southcentral Maine during 1977-1980. Recess duration and frequency differed between three females nesting near wetlands (x = 82 min, 2.3 recesses/day) and two nesting at upland sites (x = 183 min, 1.1 recesses/day), but incubation constancy was similar for all birds (x = 86.7%). A fourth wetland-nesting female apparently responded to the absence of down and concealing cover at the nest site by taking shorter and fewer recesses (x = 34 min, 1.0 recesses/day) than did other wetland-nesters with typical nests. Wetland-nesters took longer recesses with increasing air temperature and following long incubation sessions. After their ducklings were two weeks old, two brood-rearing females began leaving their broods to forage on nearby wetlands. Duration of rearing recess (x = 56 min) and total recess time (x = 94 min/day) were less during this mid-rearing stage than during the latter part of rearing (x = 265 min, 488 min/day). The two hen-brood bonds terminated at 43 and 48 days. We suggest that small endogenous nutrient reserves and the low density of invertebrate foods, typical of Black Duck breeding habitat, were critical factors affecting the evolution of Black Duck incubation behavior. Bouts of inattention during brood rearing may have also evolved in relation to food requirements; by foraging on wetlands away from their broods, females avoid competing with offspring for common food resources. 
90008439|Studying the ecology of endangered species in portions of their range where the population remains abundant can provide fundamental information for conservation planners. We studied nesting by radio-tagged Marbled Murrelets (
10.2307/1370424|We documented the frequency of pair reunion in Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) on breeding streams in Alberta, and at a molting/wintering area in southwestern British Columbia. As long as their mate is alive, Harlequin Duck pairs reunite on the wintering area and return to the breeding stream together. Pairs reunite even if the female is unsuccessful at breeding the previous season, which suggests that reuniting with the same mate year after year is important. Some males that have lost their mate and fail to re-pair on the wintering area show fidelity to their former breeding site.
10.1525/cond.2009.080062|In species of birds with biparental care, each sex may have its own energy requirements and/or schedule for feeding, possibly leading the sexes to differ in foraging strategy. In estuaries, shorebirds such as the Kentish Plover (
10.2307/1368311|The Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris), like several other North American avian taxa, consists of eastern and western counterparts with distributional limits in the Great Plains. One style of Marsh Wren singer occurs to the east of a northwest-southeast, 100-km-wide "no-wren" corridor centered on O'Neill, Nebraska. These eastern males have relatively simple songs that usually begin with a characteristic nasal buzz followed by a song that consists largely of a series of brief tonal notes. The diversity of sounds is low, both in the number of different songs in a repertoire and in the contrast between different songs within that repertoire. Males to the west of the corridor have much larger repertoires of song types that contain both tonal sounds and harsh, broad-band sounds; the overall variety of sounds is exceptionally high. Some behavioral differences, such as song repertoire size, are genetically based, but others, such as the song structure and tonal quality, are culturally based. Two males singing the eastern style, with no evidence of hybrid singing behaviors, were found among the easternmost western populations, suggesting that little if any interbreeding occurs in the central Great Plains of the United States.
10.2307/3247720|Reverse mounting (females mounting males) has been observed as a common occurrence in several species of Phalacrocoracidae. In a colony of individually marked European Shags (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) 25% of 261 focally observed mountings were reverse; 17 females (77%) and 16 males (73%) of 22 pairs were observed in reverse mountings. When courtship was divided into three periods before egg laying, we found significant differences in the frequency of reverse mountings and the frequency of pair and non-pair reverse mountings through the three periods. We conclude that reverse mounting is a normal part of courtship behavior in the shag and that it may have the same causes that have been proposed for reverse mounting in other species.
10.1525/cond.2013.120189|Oaks (
4096511| The Yellow-billed Loon (Gavia adamsii) is of conservation concern due to its restricted range, small population size, specific habitat requirements, and perceived threats to its breeding and wintering habitat. Within the U.S., this species breeds almost entirely within the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, nearly all of which is open, or proposed to be opened, for oil development. Rigorous estimates of Yellow-billed Loon population size and trend are lacking but essential for informed conservation. We used two annual aerial waterfowl surveys, conducted 1986-2003 and 1992-2003, to estimate population size and trend on northern Alaskan breeding grounds. In estimating population trend, we used mixed-effects regression models to reduce bias and sampling error associated with improvement in observer skill and annual effects of spring phenology. The estimated population trend on Alaskan breeding grounds since 1986 was near 0 with an estimated annual change of-0.9% (95% CI of-3.6% to + 1.8%). The estimated population size, averaged over the past 12 years and adjusted by a correction factor based on an intensive, lake-circling, aerial survey method, was 2221 individuals (95% CI of 1206-3235) in early June and 3369 individuals (95% CI of 1910-4828) in late June. Based on estimates from other studies of the proportion of loons nesting in a given year, it is likely that <1000 nesting pairs inhabit northern Alaska in most years. The highest concentration of Yellow-billed Loons occurred between the Meade and Ikpikpuk Rivers; and across all of northern Alaska, 53% of recorded sightings occurred within 12% of the area. /// Gavia adamsii es una especie cuyo estado de conservacin es preocupante debido a su rango de distribucin restringido, su pequeo tamao poblacional, sus requerimientos de hbitat especficos y a la inminente amenaza sobre sus h bitats reproductivos y de invernada. Dentro de los Estados Unidos, esta especie se reproduce casi enteramente dentro de la Reserva Nacional de Petrleo en Alaska, rea que est disponible, o estar disponible para ser la explotacin de petrleo. Actualmente, existe una carencia de estimadores rigurosos de los tamaos poblacionales y de sus tendencias, a pesar de que estos parmetros son esenciales para la conservacin informada de esta especie. Utilizamos dos conteos areos anuales de aves acuticas, uno realizado entre 1986-2003 y el otro entre 1992-2003, para estimar el tamao poblacional y su tendencia en los territorios reproductivos del norte de Alaska. Para estimar la tendencia poblacional utilizamos modelos de regresin de efectos mixtos, de manera de reducir el sesgo y el error de muestreo asociados a la mejora de las aptitudes del observador y a los efectos anuales de la fenologa de primavera. La tendencia poblacional estimada en los territorios reproductivos de Alaska desde 1986 fue cercana a 0, con un cambio anual estimado del-0.9% (95% IC de-3.6% a + 1.8%). El tamao poblacional estimado, promediado a lo largo de los 12 aos y ajustado mediante un factor de correccin basado en un mtodo de muestreo areo intensivo de vuelos circulares, fue de 2221 individuos (95% IC de 1206-3235 individuos) a inicios de junio y de 3369 individuos (95% IC de 1910-4828 individuos) a fines de junio. Con base en estimaciones de otros estudios sobre las proporciones de G. adamsii que se encontraban nidificando en un ao determinado, es probable que hayan habitado <1000 parejas nidificantes en el norte de Alaska en la mayora de los aos. La mayor concentracin de G. adamsii fue observada entre los ris Meade y Ikpikpuk; y a travs de todo el norte de Alaska, el 53% de los avistamientos fue registrado en un 12% del rea. 
1370338| In birds, the colors ultraviolet, blue, and green originate from feather microstructure rather than pigmentation. Structural plumage coloration may be maintained by sexual selection, yet there exists only limited evidence that structural colors can honestly signal individual quality. In this study, I found considerable individual variation in the blue-black to ultraviolet coloration of the wing coverts and rump of male Blue-black Grassquits (Volatinia jacarina), thereby revealing the potential for sexual selection on structural plumage coloration in this species. I used a principal components analysis (PCA) of four color characteristics to combine reflectance data into a single color score. Birds with high color scores have brighter, more intensely colored, and more saturated blue-black feathers. There was a significant positive relationship between color scores for both body regions and male condition. There was also a positive trend between the color score of the rump region and male body size. These results support recent findings that structural plumage coloration is condition-dependent, and this type of coloration may be an honest signal of male quality in the Blue-black Grassquit. /// En las aves, los colores ultravioleta, azul y verde estn dados por la microestructura de las plumas y no por la pigmentacin. La coloracin estructural del plumaje puede ser mantenida por seleccin sexual, aunque existe poca evidencia que indique que los colores estructurales son un indicador confiable de la calidad de un individuo. En este estudio encontr variacin individual considerable en la coloracin negro-azulada a ultravioleta de las cobertoras alares y la rabadilla de machos de Volatinia jacarina, revelando que la coloracin estructural del plumaje en esta especie podra estar sujeta a seleccin sexual. Utilic un anlisis de componentes principales (PCA) de cuatro caractersticas de color para combinar datos de reflectancia en un solo valor de color. Las aves con altos valores de color tienen plumas ms brillantes e intensamente coloreadas y ms saturadas de color negroazulado. Existi una relacin positiva significativa entre los valores de color para ambas regiones del cuerpo y la condicin fsica de los machos. Tambin hubo una tendencia positiva entre el valor del color de la regin de la rabadilla y el tamao corporal de los machos. Estos resultados apoyan descubrimientos recientes que demuestran que la coloracin estructural del plumaje depende de la condicin fsica, y que este tipo de coloracin puede ser una seal confiable de la calidad de los machos de V. jacarina. 
40072431|Adult sex ratios of waterfowl often show male bias, usually explained by differential female mortality during breeding. However, the sex ratio among first-winter Common Eiders (
10.1525/cond.2013.120173|I examined over 4500 specimens to investigate the evolutionary significance of molt sequences as related to systematic relationships of falcons and parrots. Nodes of molt among the medial primaries (p4p6) and at s5 among the secondaries, followed by bidirectional replacement from the node within each tract, was confirmed for most or all taxonomic groupings of both falcons and parrots, with the exception of the Kakapo or Owl Parrot (
10.1525/cond.2009.090100|The global redistribution of pathogens, such as highly pathogenic avian influenza, has renewed interest in the connectivity of continental populations of birds. Populations of the Northern Pintail (
3247796| We tested for associations between body condition, territory ownership, and permanent parasite load of Galpagos Hawks (Buteo galapagoensis) on Isla Marchena, Galpagos. Two louse species were collected from most of the 26 hawks sampled: the amblyceran Colpocephalum turbinatum and the ischnoceran Degeeriella regalis. Nonterritorial hawks were in significantly poorer body condition than territorial hawks. Body condition was negatively correlated with the abundance of C. turbinatum. Nonterritorial hawks had significantly higher mean abundances, mean intensities, and median intensities of both louse species than territorial hawks. The amblyceran's mean abundance and intensity were significantly higher than the ischnoceran's. Abundances of the two lice were positively related when the population size of C. turbinatum was <100 individuals, and negatively related when >100 individuals. Parasite load and body condition both predicted territory ownership well. /// Probamos la relacin entre la condicin corporal, la posesin de territorios y la carga parasitaria permanente en el Gaviln de Galpagos (Buteo galapagoensis) en la Isla Marchena, Galpagos. En la mayora de los 26 gavilanes muestreados se colectaron dos especies de piojo: el amblicernido Colpocephalum turbinatum y el ischnocernido Degeeriella regalis. Los gavilanes no territoriales se encontraron en condiciones corporales significativamente peores que los gavilanes territoriales. Encontramos una correlacin negativa significativa entre la condicin corporal y la abundancia de C. turbinatum. Los gavilanes no territoriales tuvieron significativamente mayor abundancia, intensidad media e intensidad mediana de las dos especies de piojo que los gavilanes territoriales. La abundancia promedio y la intensidad de los amblicernidos fueron significativamente mayores que las de los ischnocernidos. Las abundancias de las dos especies de piojo estuvieron positivamente correlacionadas cuando el tamao poblacional de C. turbinatum fue <100 individuos y negativamente correlacionadas cundo fue >100 individuos. Tanto la carga parasitaria como la condicin corporal predijeron bien la posesin de territorios. 
10.2307/1369137|Recent studies of nocturnal foraging by shorebirds (Charadriiformes: Charadrii) suggest that many species feed at night. Much of this research has been qualitative and/or restricted to a small portion of the annual cycle (e.g., a few nights or one season) making it difficult to evaluate the extent to which nocturnal foraging varies seasonally. Consequently, we examined seasonal variation in abundance and distribution of diurnal and nocturnal foraging shorebirds from 10 Jan 1992-10 Jan 1993 at North Humboldt Bay, California. Shorebirds foraged primarily during the day. Overall, day/night frequency of occurrence (percent of censuses with birds) was 87%/48%. In fall, frequency of occurrence of shorebirds differed less between day and night (day/night: 82%/64%) than during spring (day/night: 79%/14%) or winter (day/night: 100%/42%). Moreover, nocturnal abundance of Marbled Godwit (Limosa fedoa), Willet (Catoptrophorus semipalmatus), dowitchers (Limnodromus scolopaceus and L. griseus), and Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola) peaked in fall, whereas diurnal abundance of these species peaked in winter (Marbled Godwit, Black-bellied Plover, and dowitchers) or spring (Willet). Taxa varied in day/night patterns. For Scolopacids, diurnal abundance significantly exceeded nocturnal abundance. However, abundance of American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana), Black-bellied Plover, and Semipalmated Plover (Charadrius semipalmatus) did not differ significantly between day and night. Our results suggest that a researcher's choice of season or taxa may influence observed patterns of diurnal and nocturnal distributions of shorebirds considerably.
10.2307/1370312|We examined patterns of diet, foraging group size, and vigilance effort of naturalized Monk Parakeets (Myiopsitta monachus) in Hyde Park, a neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois. Parakeets exhibited a highly seasonal and varied diet consisting of fruits, seeds, and buds, and they fed almost exclusively on birdseed provided at backyard feeding stations during the winter months. Birds foraged in groups of 1 to 31 birds, but most flocks were of 10 birds or less. Foraging group size was greatest in the fall and early winter, and smallest at the beginning of the spring when breeding began. Monk Parakeets adjusted their vigilance effort with changes in flock size. Individual vigilance effort declined with increasing flock size through a decrease in time spent scanning as well as the number of times scans were initiated. The number of parakeets exhibiting vigilance in a flock at any given time also decreased with flock size. It is likely that the highly adaptable and varied diet of Monk Parakeets contributes greatly to the persistence and growth of populations in a variety of North American habitats.
40306171|The Red-bellied Woodpecker species group (
4096543|Accurate estimates of annual survival are necessary for conservation of threatened species of migratory birds. We studied a large, stable population of Kentish Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) breeding in southern Turkey
1370342| We compare the bill morphology of Chilean (Phoenicopterus chilensis), Andean (Phoenicoparrus andinus) and James' (Phoenicoparrus jamesi) Flamingos and give dietary information as evidence of the size-selectivity of their filters. In Chilean Flamingo, the marginal and the outer submarginal lamellae of the upper jaw, together with the outer submarginal lamellae of the lower jaw, may function as a mesh during the outflow and as excluders during the inflow of water. When the beak is closed, the functional mesh has spaces between marginal lamellae with one dimension less than 80 m in the proximal portion, while spaces are no wider than 959 m in the curvature and distal portions. In both Phoenicoparrus species, the marginal lamellae of the upper jaw and the outer submarginal lamellae of both jaws probably act as a filter for large prey in the outflow and as excluders during the inflow of water. The inner submarginal lamellae, which have no fringes, lie in series that may form a second sieve for smaller prey. The distance between inner submarginal lamellae of both jaws are no larger than 106 m in the Andean Flamingo and 56 m in James' Flamingo. Dietary information on the three species suggests that their filters select different-sized particles. This study extends Jenkin's observations and presents the first complete lamellae description for genus Phoenicoparrus. /// Describimos y comparamos la morfologa del pico de Phoenicopterus chilensis, Phoenicoparrus andinus y Phoenicoparrus jamesi y aportamos informacin de su dieta como evidencia de la capacidad de seleccin de tamaos de sus filtros. En Phoenicopterus chilensis, las lamelas marginales y las submarginales externas de la quijada superior, junto con las lamelas submarginales externas de la quijada inferior, funcionaran como filtros en la salida del agua y como exclusores en la entrada. Cuando el pico est cerrado, el tamiz funcional tiene al menos un espacio menor de 80 m entre las lamelas marginales de la regin proximal del pico y espacios no mayores que 959 m en las regiones de la curvatura y distal. En ambas especies de Phoenicoparrus, las lamelas marginales de la quijada superior y las lamelas submarginales externas de ambas quijadas probablemente actan como filtros de presas grandes a la salida del agua y como exclusores a la entrada. Las lamelas submarginales internas no presentan ribetes en sus bordes y se disponen en series, que podran formar un segundo filtro para las presas ms pequeas. La distancia entre lamelas submarginales internas de ambas quijadas no es mayor de 106 m en Phoenicoparrus andinus, y de 56 m en Phoenicoparrus jamesi. La informacin acerca de la dieta de las tres especies sugiere que sus filtros difieren en el tamao de presa seleccionado. Este trabajo ampla las observaciones de Jenkin y presenta la primera descripcin completa de las lamelas del gnero Phoenicoparrus. 
40306201|Quantifying population genetic heterogeneity within nonbreeding aggregations can inform our understanding of patterns of site fidelity, migratory connectivity, and gene flow between breeding and nonbreeding areas. However, characterizing mechanisms that contribute to heterogeneity, such as migration and dispersal, is required before site fidelity and migratory connectivity can be assessed accurately. We studied nonbreeding groups of Common Mergansers (
10.2307/1369743|We assessed the distribution, relative abundance, and habitat preferences of the 12 indigenous, resident species of landbirds that survive in the Vava'u Group, Kingdom of Tonga. We surveyed 16 islands, 10 of which are previously unmentioned in ornithological literature. The islands vary in land area (0.02-96 km<sup>2</sup>), habitat composition, elevation (20-215 m), and distance (0-10.1 km) from the largest island of 'Uta Vava'u. We conducted point counts along transects on 14 of the islands, and placed each count location into one of five habitat categories. Of the 11 species of landbirds that are widespread and at least locally common, 7 (Purple-capped Fruit-Dove Ptilinopus porphyraceus, Pacific Pigeon Ducula pacifica, Common Barn-Owl Tyto alba, White-rumped Swiftlet Collocalia spodiopygia, Collared Kingfisher Halcyon chloris, Polynesian Triller Lalage maculosa, Polynesian Starling Aplonis tabuensis) certainly or probably occur on each of the 16 islands. One species (West Polynesian Ground-Dove Gallicolumba stairii) is extremely rare (one small population on one island). Three species that we did not record (Many-colored Fruit-Dove Ptilinopus perousii, Blue-crowned Lorikeet Vini australis, Fiji Shrikebill Clytorhynchus vitiensis) probably have been extirpated from Vava'u. The species richness and relative abundance of landbirds on islands in Vava'u are affected more by deforestation and other human activities than by island area, elevation, or isolation.
1370572| We studied the duet of the Caribbean-slope subspecies of the Plain Wren (Thryothorus modestus zeledoni) in Costa Rica. It is one of the most complex duets to have been described. The duet proper consists of rapid, highly coordinated alternation of "A-phrases" from the female and "B-phrases" from the male. While the female initiates this section with her A-phrase, this cyclical part of the duet is almost invariably preceded by an introductory "I-phrase" from the male, so that it is the male that initiates the performance. Each male has a repertoire of I- and B-phrases, and each female has a repertoire of A-phrases. These are specifically associated with each other to form a repertoire of duet types. We hypothesize that the pattern of song organization in this species facilitates more coordinated and precise duetting. The presence of the three components means that a full duet requires the cooperation of both members of the pair, strongly suggesting that it represents a mutually beneficial signal. /// En este trabajo estudiamos el canto en dueto de la subespecie caribea Thryothorus modestus zeledoni en Costa Rica. El canto en dueto de esta especie es uno de los ms complejos que se han descrito hasta la fecha. El dueto consiste en una serie de frases "A" por parte de la hembra y frases "B" por parte del macho alternadas de una manera altamente coordinada. A pesar de que la hembra inicia esta sesin de dueto con una frase "A", esta parte del dueto es precedida invariablemente por una frase introductoria "I" del macho, de modo que el macho es el que inicia propiamente el canto. Cada macho tiene un repertorio de frases "I" y "B", y cada hembra tiene un repertorio de frases "A." Estas frases estn estrechamente asociadas entre ellas para formar un repertorio de cantos en dueto. La hiptesis que proponemos es que el tipo de organizacin en el canto de esta especie facilita un canto en dueto ms preciso y coordinado. La presencia de tres componentes hace que el canto en dueto requiera la cooperacin absoluta de ambos miembros de la pareja. Esto sugiere que este tipo de seal beneficia a ambos sexos. 
40072426|Sequence variation of control region mitochondrial DNA, phylogenetic reconstruction, and analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) were used to determine the degree of genetic structure of Yellow Warblers (
10.2307/1370274| A study of the natal dispersal and first breeding of banded fledglings was carried out on a small population (235 birds) of cooperatively polyandrous Brown Skua (Catharacta lonnbergi) on the Chatham Islands in order to determine the relatedness of the members of breeding groups. Since 1977, all fledglings on Mangere and Rangatira islands have been banded each year and their parents and natal territory recorded. One hundred and one chicks were later documented breeding, 92 of which had full natal history. Mean age at first breeding was 8.03 years and is similar to other skua species. Mean age of first breeding for males was 8.30 years and females 7.74 years. Fledglings dispersed for breeding throughout the Chatham Islands; none has been recorded breeding on other island groups in the New Zealand region. Young birds when first breeding joined established breeding units (53% of birds) or formed entirely new breeding units (47% of birds). Seventy-seven began breeding in pairs compared with 24 in cooperative groups. Only 6 of the 92 known-identity birds settled on their natal territories when first breeding, and just 1 joined a parent in a cooperative group. One pair comprised siblings. I conclude that Brown Skua cooperatively breeding groups do not comprise close relatives. This cooperative system stands in contrast to the more usual ones involving family members. 
40306124|Relatively little is known about birds during the postfledging period when flighted chicks have left the nest and must learn to forage independently. We examined postfledging movements, habitat selection, and colony attendance of Forster's Terns (
10.2307/1369636|We tested how edges affect nest survival and predator distribution in a native tallgrass prairie system in southwestern Missouri using artificial nests, natural nests of Dickcissels (Spiza americana) and Henslow's Sparrows (Ammodramus henslowii), and mammal track stations. Survival of artificial nests was lower within 30 m of forest edge. Nesting success of Dickcissels and Henslow's Sparrows was lower within 50 m to a shrubby edge than at greater distances, whereas fates of nests were not related to distances to roads, agricultural fields, or forests. Evidence from clay eggs placed in artificial nests indicated that mid-sized carnivores were the major predators within 30 m of forest edges. Furthermore, mid-sized carnivores visited track stations most frequently within 50 m of forest edges. Because proximity of woody habitat explained more variation in nest survival and mammal activity than did fragment size, it appears that edge effects were more pronounced than area effects. Edge effects appeared to be caused mainly by greater exposure of nests to mid-sized carnivores. We argue that, based on edge avoidance behavior, "grassland-interior" species such as the Henslow's Sparrow respond to edge effects mainly by a decrease in density, whereas habitat generalists such as the Dickcissel are affected mainly by a decrease in nesting success.
10.2307/1367066|Pellets of Cape Cormorants (Phalacrocorax capensis) are cast daily and can be used to determine prey species through identification of otoliths and other indigestible parts. Experiments in captivity indicate that some otoliths may be partially or entirely digested, making it impossible to estimate the original size or number of fish ingested per meal or per day.
10.2307/1369744| Most species of chat-tyrants (Ochthoeca, Silvicultrix) are widespread along the length of the Andes, with broadly overlapping ranges, but segregated in different altitudinal zones or habitats. We used mitochondrial DNA sequences to study their phylogenetic relationships. Our data show considerable divergence and multiple base substitutions at some positions between geographically overlapping species. Such divergence probably predates the period of marked ecoclimatic changes in the Pleistocene, whereas vicariance patterns may reflect events in the lower Pleistocene. Only some of the boundaries between allospecies correspond to marked topographic barriers, and we suggest that sharp species-replacements indicate secondary contact zones. An evolutionary dynamic scenario is suggested where divergence of isolated populations is followed by establishment of sharp geographical replacements and, with development of full ecological compatibility, establishment of broad overlap along the Andes cordillera. The phylogeny suggests a series of adaptive shifts from the ancestral habitat of scrub and river margins in tropical lowlands to bushy highlands and elfin forest, then colonization of edge habitats in the humid montane forest, and finally interior montane and submontane forest. However, the adaptive redistribution has obscured the early vicariance events in the group. The results support the monophyly of all chattyrants, but with a distinctive internal structure, where Silvicultrix is a monophyletic internal branch within Ochthoeca. Support also is given for a close relationship between Tumbezia salvini and Ochthoeca. We suggest keeping Tumbezia as a separate genus, merging Silvicultrix with Ochthoeca, and elevating O. frontalis and spodionota, and O. cinnamomeiventris and thoracica to species rank. /// La mayora de las especies de pitajos (Ochthoeca, Silvicultrix) tiene distribuciones sobrelapadas a lo largo de los Andes, segregndose en hbitats o zonas altitudinales distintas. Usamos secuencias del ADN mitocondrial para investigar sus relaciones filogenticas. Nuestros datos muestran gran divergencia entre especies. Al comparar especies cuyas distribuciones se sobrelapan detectamos la ocurrencia de mltiples substituciones de nucletidos en algunas posiciones. Dichas especies corresponden a las ramas ms profundas de la filogenia, y posiblemente anteceden al perodo de variaciones climticas extremas del Pleistoceno, mientras que los patrones de vicariancia visibles reflejan eventos ocurridos en el Pleistoceno inferior. Solamente algunos lmites entre aloespecies corresponden con barreras topogrficas, y sugerimos que dichas suturas son reas de contacto secundario. Se propone un escenario evolutivo dinmico. En este, la divergencia de poblaciones aisladas precede al establecimiento de las suturas entre especies que se reemplazan geogrficamente, y concluye con el establecimiento de distribuciones sobrelapadas cuando la compatibilidad ecolgica es total. La filogenia sugiere una serie de cambios adaptativos del hbitat ancestral en matorrales y mrgenes fluviales de las tierras bajas tropicales a los hbitats montaosos, y finalmente al interior de los bosques montano y submontano. La redistribucin adaptativa ha obscurecido los eventos tempranos de vicariancia del grupo. Nuestros resultados apoyan la monofilia de los pitajos, aunque con una estructura interna particular, en la que Silvicultrix forma una grupo monofiltico dentro de Ochthoeca. Se apoya una relacin estrecha entre Tumbezia y Ochthoeca. Sugerimos mantener Tumbezia como gnero aparte, fundir Silvicultrix con Ochthoeca, y otorgarles el rango de especies a O. frontalis y O. spodionota, y a O. cinnamomeiventris y O. thoracica. 
10.2307/1367039|Fecal sac removal by Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) was monitored for 10 "land" nest boxes (> 100 m from water) and 13 "water" nest boxes (adjacent to or over water). The mean distance from the nest at which "land" birds dropped fecal sacs was more than double that for "water" birds. Departure directions for birds carrying fecal sacs were more variable than for birds not carrying fecal sacs although, contrary to prediction, "land" birds were not more variable than "water" birds. Combining data on the removal rate and weight of fecal sacs over the nestling period produced the estimate that for each nestling, parents removed 70 g of feces in 168 trips. It is hypothesized that where predation pressure requires more time and energy to be spent in disposing fecal sacs, clutch size will be smaller.
10.2307/1369967|Northern Bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) were acclimated to crickets, and food intake and excreta output measured. Their metabolizable energy coefficient (MEC* = 1 - energy excreted/energy ingested = 0.77) was significantly higher than that of American Robins (Turdus migratorius) that were unacclimated or fully acclimated to eating crickets. We measured apparent chitin digestibility (D<sub>chitin</sub> = 1 - chitin excreted/chitin ingested) in both species and tested the predictions that (1) D<sub>chitin</sub> would be higher in bobwhites than robins, and (2) D<sub>chitin</sub> would be higher in robins after acclimation. D<sub>chitin</sub> ranged from 0.07-0.14 with no significant difference between or within species, so both predictions were rejected. These apparent chitin digestibilities are low relative to values reported for seabirds that eat krill, and account for < 1% of the metabolizable energy in crickets.
10.1525/cond.2013.120176|Monitoring of birds often requires the use of very-high-frequency radios or satellite telemetry to enhance detectability of individuals. An assumption implicit in such studies is that radio-marked individuals are representative of the population at whole, which requires that radios do not influence an individual's behavior or demographics. We present results from a capturemarkrecapture study of male Greater Sage-Grouse (
10.2307/1367032|The behavior of male-female (M-F) and female-female (F-F) paired Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) before egg laying was examined on Santa Barbara Island, California to test the hypothesis that one female in a F-F pair may assume a male role. In M-F pairs, no behaviors were performed exclusively by either sex, although males Mounted more often, females Head-tossed more often and males acted more aggressively toward intruders. Within F-F pairs, neither partner consistently showed masculine behavior. In a comparison of behavior toward intruders, both members of F-F pairs resembled the female in M-F pairs, and were generally significantly different from males. We therefore reject the hypothesis that female-female pairing is the result of either the adoption of a "male" behavioral role by one or both partners, or an extreme "female" role by one member.
40072382|High annual variation in grassland bird populations in the Great Plains has often been attributed to changes in moisture levels, but most previous assessments of variation in grassland bird numbers have been of short duration, have occurred during a limited range of moisture levels, have been limited in geographic scope, have considered few species, or have sampled only one or few habitat types. Data from the long-term North American Breeding Bird Survey have the potential to overcome some of these shortcomings. We used linear models and information-theoretic methods to examine associations between moisture levels and populations of 17 species of grassland passerine and two species of wetland passerine in northern North Dakota from 1980 to 2004. We used data from 13 Breeding Bird Survey routes to provide indices of bird abundance and regional dispersion; we used numbers of ponds containing water identified on annual May waterfowl surveys and the Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) as regional moisture indices. Responses varied among species, but the data indicated substantial support for moisture influencing the abundance of 17 of the 19 species we considered. Models including same-year pond numbers generally received more support than models including PDSI data. Dispersion of seven species throughout the study area was influenced by moisture levels, although the response was not as universal and support was not as strong as it was with abundance. Associations between grassland birds and moisture levels suggest the value of regional moisture indices to interpreting studies and surveys of grassland birds in the northern Great Plains.
10.2307/1369070|Variation in syringeal morphology was studied to resolve the relationships of representatives of all of the recognized genera of falcons, falconets, pygmy falcons, and caracaras in the family Falconidae. The phylogeny derived from these data establishes three major clades within the family: (1) the Polyborinae, containing Daptrius, Polyborus, Milvago and Phalcoboenus, the four genera of caracaras; (2) the Falconinae, consisting of the genus Falco, Polihierax (pygmy falcons), Spiziapteryx and Microhierax (falconets) and Herpetotheres (Laughing Falcon); and (3) the genus Micrastur (forest falcons) comprising the third, basal clade. Two genera, Daptrius and Polihierax, are found to be polyphyletic. The phylogeny inferred from these syringeal data do not support the current division of the family into two subfamilies.
10.1525/cond.2011.090141|Determining factors that affect post-fledging dispersal and survival is key toward a better understanding of the population dynamics of species with a propensity for range expansion, such as the Eurasian Collared-Dove (
10.2307/1367605|I examined the territory size, mating success, nest placement, nest development, and nesting success of the three passerine species restricted to the sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) habitat in southeastern Idaho. Territories defended by male Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus) were larger than those defended by either Sage Sparrows (Amphispiza belli) or Brewer's Sparrows (Spizella breweri). All but one of the territorial Sage Thrashers (n = 19) were successful in securing mates and nesting. Fifty-three percent of the territorial Sage Sparrows (n = 30) and only 23% of the displaying Brewer's Sparrows (n = 30) secured mates and nested. Thrashers nested either on the ground below sagebrush or in the branches of sagebrush plants. Brewer's and Sage sparrows nested only in the shrub canopy of sagebrush. Average incubation and nesting periods (rounded to the nearest whole day) for the Sage Thrasher, Sage Sparrow, and Brewer's Sparrow were 15 (n = 9) and 12 (n = 7) days, 14 (n = 5) and 10 (n = 7) days, and 11 (n = 1) and 9 (n = 1) days respectively. Sage Thrashers (n = 49) and Sage Sparrows (n = 17) had a similar probability of nesting success (0.45 and 0.40, respectively), while the Mayfield success rate for Brewer's Sparrows (n = 7) was only 0.09. Male Sage Sparrows that attracted mates had established larger territories than those that failed to mate. Brewer's Sparrows nested about 10 days later than the other species, which may have resulted in their lower nesting success, since nest site requirements of all species were similar.
90008463|Lead (Pb) is a metabolic poison that can negatively influence biological processes, leading to illness and mortality across a large spectrum of North American avifauna (&#x003E;120 species) and other organisms. Pb poisoning can result from numerous sources, including ingestion of bullet fragments and shot pellets left in animal carcasses, spent ammunition left in the field, lost fishing tackle, Pb-based paints, large-scale mining, and Pb smelting activities. Although Pb shot has been banned for waterfowl hunting in the United States (since 1991) and Canada (since 1999), Pb exposure remains a problem for many avian species. Despite a large body of scientific literature on exposure to Pb and its toxicological effects on birds, controversy still exists regarding its impacts at a population level. We explore these issues and highlight areas in need of investigation: (1) variation in sensitivity to Pb exposure among bird species; (2) spatial extent and sources of Pb contamination in habitats in relation to bird exposure in those same locations; and (3) interactions between avian Pb exposure and other landscape-level stressors that synergistically affect bird demography. We explore multiple paths taken to reduce Pb exposure in birds that (1) recognize common ground among a range of affected interests; (2) have been applied at local to national scales; and (3) engage governmental agencies, interest groups, and professional societies to communicate the impacts of Pb ammunition and fishing tackle, and to describe approaches for reducing their availability to birds. As they have in previous times, users of fish and wildlife will play a key role in resolving the Pb poisoning issue.
10.2307/1367021|A two-summer, mark-recapture study of Laysan Ducks (Anas laysanensis) resulted in a population estimate of 510 birds with over 90% of the birds marked. Individuals seemed long-lived with the low reproductive rate common to K-selected species. Nesting occurred in spring and early summer in spite of the subtropical climatic regime. Nests were mainly in clumps of grass (Eragrostis) and hatching success was low. Duckling mortality due to exposure was common during rainstorms, but no direct predation was noted. Pair-bond behavior resembled that of continental populations of Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) but males tended to return to mates after brood-rearing or loss of brood or nest. Year-to-year mate switching occurred more than half the time, even when previous mates were alive. Males did not assist in care of the brood. During spring and summer, ducks of all ages fed heavily on invertebrates. Adult brine flies (Neoscatella sexnotata) on mud flats around the lake were the major food of ducks of all ages. Radio-marked pairs consistently used the same upland areas during the day. At night, most ducks moved to a lake on the island to feed, and to drink in communal areas at freshwater seeps. Feeding and drinking was dominantly crepuscular and nocturnal at the lake, but laying hens or hens with broods sometimes fed throughout the day as well. Conservation of the species requires monitoring of duck populations and habitat conditions, and surveillance for accidentally introduced predators such as rats. The lake is vital to the success of the species, and it is unlikely that a significant population could survive on terrestrial resources alone. Intensive management will be necessary only if blowing sands fill the lake, predators become established, or the vegetation is seriously damaged in some way.
10.1525/cond.2009.080032|The globally threatened Sarus Crane (
10.2307/1367993|The responsiveness of female White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys nuttalli) to male songs in their natal dialect (Clear) or in an alien dialect (Buzzy) was evaluated by measuring string-gathering and paper-shredding in a laboratory experiment. Females hearing Clear dialect songs gathered more strings than did females hearing Buzzy dialect songs. More females hearing Buzzy songs shredded paper than females hearing Clear songs. Both groups placed more strings than paper shreds into nest cups, indicating that strings were regarded as a more suitable nesting material. Taken together, these results suggest that females are reproductively more responsive to the song of males in their natal dialect than to songs in an alien dialect.
10.1525/cond.2012.110141|Predation is the leading cause of nest failure for many bird species. Most studies associate risk of predation with vegetation characteristics of the nest site. Alternatively, the Skutch hypothesis suggests that adults' activity at the nest can attract the attention of predators and lead to an increased risk of predation. We investigated whether vegetation characteristics surrounding nest sites affected nest attentiveness and visitation and if these behaviors affected nest survival. We used 1-hr nest observations and 8-hr video observations at Black-capped Vireo (
10.2307/1369937|I review diet selection in grouse and waterfowl in the context of their herbivorous diets and discuss adaptations to herbivory in these groups. Both grouse and waterfowl prefer plant foods containing higher concentrations of protein than nonpreferred foods; grouse and small waterfowl include invertebrates in the diet to meet protein demands during periods of high tissue production. Grouse tend to avoid plant foods containing high concentrations of anti-herbivore compounds and the relative roles of these compounds versus nutrients in diet selection by grouse is presently unclear. Grouse and waterfowl have similar digestive morphology, except for the ceca, which are 5 times longer in grouse than in geese. Enlarged ceca are associated with improved nitrogen economy in grouse; evolution of these structures in geese may have been precluded by energetic costs of carrying enlarged ceca during migration.
40306135|We studied a unique nest-dismantling behavior after fledging by Hair-crested Drongos (
90008048|Birds are expected to select nest sites that maximize their reproductive success. In some settings, particularly in human-modified landscapes, birds may make maladaptive choices based on unreliable cues. We studied nest-site selection and the factors that influence reproductive success of Common Yellowthroats (
1369821| Nesting success of Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis) in Florida is highly variable among years and locations, and hydrology is the most frequently reported explanatory factor. We conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the extent of spatial and temporal variability in nesting success, and explicitly tested for the effects of annual minimum water levels. Data were obtained from six independent studies spanning 22 years and 11 wetlands. Our results indicated there was substantial spatial and temporal variability in nest success and that annual minimum water level, either as a categorical or continuous response, was not a significant source of this variation. Our results do not imply that low water levels do not influence nest success. Rather, they indicate that the number of nests affected by low water conditions was quite low (<1%). A wetland area experiences low water once every 5 to 10 years, and seldom does such an event encompass the entire range of Snail Kites in Florida. During a low water event, kites are capable of moving to alternative locations. Thus, relatively few birds may exhibit low nest success as a result of low water events, and management aimed at preclusion of such events may be unnecessary and detrimental to maintenance of the habitat over long time scales. /// El xito de anidacin de Rostrhamus sociabilis en Florida vara ampliamente entre aos y localidades. La hidrologa es el factor que se ha propuesto con mayor frecuencia para explicar dicha variabilidad. Llevamos a cabo un meta-anlisis para evaluar la magnitud de la variabilidad espacial y temporal en el xito de anidacin y pusimos a prueba explcitamente el efecto de los niveles mnimos anuales de agua. Los datos fueron obtenidos de seis estudios independientes comprediendo 22 aos y 11 humedales. Nuestros resultados indicaron que hubo gran variacin espacial y temporal en el xito de anidacin y que el nivel mnimo anual de agua (ya sea como una respuesta categrica o continua), no fue una fuente significativa de esta variacin. Nuestros resultados no implican que niveles bajos de agua no afectan el xito de anidacin. En cambio, indican que el nmero de nidos afectados por condiciones de aguas bajas fue bastante bajo (<1%). Un rea de humedales presenta aguas bajas una vez cada cinco o diez aos y es raro que uno de estos sucesos abarque todo el rango de R. sociabilis en Florida. Durante una poca de aguas bajas, las aves estn en capacidad de moverse hacia otros sitios por lo que relativamente pocas podran tener bajo xito reproductivo como consecuencia de la escasez de agua. El manejo dirigido a suprimir estos eventos podra ser innecesario e ir en detrimento del mantenimiento del hbitat a largo plazo. 
10.2307/1366779|The Clark's Nutcracker (Nucifraga columbiana) stores conifer seeds in the late summer and fall of each year. During winter and spring, seeds from buried caches are the major food of nutcrackers and their young. A bird must find more than a thousand seed caches each year. The alternative means by which nutcrackers may locate seed stores are (1) memory of cache site and (2) trial and error search. While searching for stored seeds, a Clark's Nutcracker makes a series of prod holes with its bill. A hole from which a cache was recovered is usually distinguished by a pile of broken seed coats. This allows an estimate of a nutcracker's success rate in locating seed caches. Theft of seed caches by rodents and removal of intact seeds from cache sites by nutcrackers may confuse this estimate. A field technique based on deductive reasoning is presented to determine how nutcrackers recover their caches. In the eastern Sierra Nevada I gathered field data on the success rate and nearest neighbor distances among prod holes in spring and summer of 1975. Data indicating the proportion of caches taken by rodents were obtained in 1978. Analyses of these data suggest that nutcrackers find most of their caches by means of memory. A search based on memory implies that seed stores are not communal and that nutcrackers must remain in the area where they stored seeds until the following summer. Theft of seed stores by rodents must be an important selective pressure on nutcracker caching behavior. By caching seeds in storage areas which become covered with deep snow, nutcrackers may reduce their losses to rodents.
10.2307/1368187|Colonies of Lesser Frigatebirds (Fregata ariel) contained nesting groups with up to 250 nests per group. Within groups, sites were not arranged in clusters as in Great Frigatebirds (F. minor) but were regularly spaced. On Aldabra Atoll, nesting success (fledglings/nest) was inversely correlated with nest density in nesting groups for 1976 but the correlation was not significant for 1977. Breeding success (fledglings/egg) was low (23% and 17%) and varied with date of laying. In 1976, birds laying before the mean laying date were less successful whereas in 1977 birds laying after the mean laying date were less successful. Site usurpation by unpaired males was a major cause of chick loss, especially in 1976. Usurpation of a site resulted in neighboring sites also being lost. Breeding failure in late 1977 was apparently due to abandonment of eggs rather than usurpation. Unlike male Great Frigatebirds, unpaired male Lesser Frigatebirds did not form stable display clusters: they aggregated only at sites of female interest, remained for a short time and did not fight for display sites. Unlike female Great Frigatebirds, female Lesser Frigatebirds performed a ritualized aerial display before landing at an advertising male, began settlement soon after the first male display, and showed no preference for colonies of different size. On Raine Island there appeared to be no site usurpation by unpaired males. The differences between Great and Lesser Frigatebirds in site-selection and nest spacing have probably arisen from differences in food availability, sex ratio and predation.
1370604| We estimated annual apparent survival, recruitment, and rate of population growth of breeding Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris), while controlling for transients, by using 18 years of capture-mark-recapture data collected during 1984-2001 at Hilton Pond Center for Piedmont Natural History near York, South Carolina. Resident males had lower apparent survival (0.30  0.05 SE) than females (0.43  0.04). Estimates of apparent survival did not differ by age. Point estimates suggested that newly banded males were less likely than females to be residents, but standard errors of these estimates overlapped (males: 0.60  0.14 SE; females: 0.67  0.09). Estimated female recruitment was 0.60  0.06 SE, meaning that 60% of adult females present in any given year had entered the population during the previous year. Our estimate for rate of change indicated the population of female hummingbirds was stable during the study period (1.04  0.04 SE). We suggest an annual goal of 64 adult females and 64 immature females released per banding area to enable rigorous future tests for effects of covariates on population dynamics. Development of a broader cooperating network of hummingbird banders in eastern North America could allow tests for regional or metapopulation dynamics in this species. /// Estimamos la sobrevivencia anual aparente, reclutamiento y tasa de crecimiento en una poblacin reproductiva del picaflor Archilochus colubris, controlando por la presencia de individuos ocasionales. Utilizamos datos de 18 aos de captura-marcaje-recaptura colectados entre 1984 y 2001 en Hilton Pond Center for Piedmont Natural History en cercanas de York, Carolina del Sur. Los machos residentes presentaron una sobrevivencia aparente menor (0.30  0.05 EE) que las hembras (0.43  0.04). Las estimaciones de la sobreviviencia aparente no difirieron entre edades. Estimaciones puntuales sugirieron que los machos marcados por primera vez tuvieron una menor probabilidad de ser residentes que las hembras, pero los errores estndar de estas estimaciones se sobrepusieron (machos: 0.60  0.14 EE; hembras: 0.67  0.09 EE). Para las hembras el reclutamiento estimado fue 0.60  0.06 EE, lo que significa que el 60% de las hembras adultas presentes en un ao determinado entraron a la poblacin durante el ao anterior. Nuestra estimacin de la tasa de cambio indic que la poblacin de picaflores hembra fue estable durante el perodo de estudio (1.04  0.02 EE). Para permitir futuras pruebas rigurosas sobre las covariables asociadas a las dinmicas poblacionales, sugerimos una meta anual de 64 hembras adultas y 64 hembras inmaduras liberadas por rea de anillado. La creacin de una amplia red cooperativa de anilladores de picaflores en el este de Norteamrica podra permitir estudiar y entender mejor las dinmicas regionales o metapoblacionales de esta especie. 
10.2307/1370270|The general-stated view that high mortality rates in young birds arises from a lack of behavioral proficiency is based on limited empirical evidence. The relationship between competitive foraging ability and age-specific mortality was examined in a free-ranging Rock Dove (Columba livia) population. In this system, competition for food was intense and predators were scarce. Young and adult pigeons showed considerable niche overlap, were members in the same flocks, and used similar foraging techniques, all of which favored competition between these age groups. Competition was especially intense when pigeons foraged on food provided by the public, which was the preferred and major food source for the population. Young pigeons were poorer competitors than adults in all situations analyzed. First, juveniles foraged less rapidly, and so were more vulnerable to exploitation competition. Second, juveniles were subordinate to adults within a despotic social system, and so suffered more from contest competition. These findings suggest that juveniles were less likely to attain a positive energy balance through the day and were more vulnerable to starvation and disease. As predicted, more juvenile corpses than expected were found during the study, indicating that young pigeons experienced higher mortality rates than adults. It is therefore suggested that differential mortality of juvenile and adult pigeons could in part arise from differences in competitive abilities over food.
10.2307/1367752| Ornithological surveys were conducted during 1983 in northern Peru at three sites in Dpto. San Martn, and at one site in Dpto. Amazonas. New localities and natural history observations are reported for the following species: Touit stictoptera, Otus guatemalae, Chaetura egregia, Phaethornis koepckeae, Urosticte benjamini, Heliangelis regalis, Phyllomyias burmeisteri, Hemitriccus rufigularis, Myiophobus phoenicomitra, Oxyruncus cristatus, and Henicorhina leucoptera. Campylopterus villaviscensio is reported from Peru for the first time, and the first known nest of Contopus nigrescens is described. Two appendices report the relative abundance of all species recorded from the four sites. 
1370344| We tested the ability of 29 indices of productivity to predict and track actual productivity of a Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) population for 21 years and to detect year-to-year changes in that productivity. Of 29 indices tested, only the productivity of nests initiated in May showed promise. This index reasonably predicted productivity, correctly tracked two out of three temporal trends in productivity, and detected a significant proportion of year-to-year changes in actual productivity. Although they were not useful for predicting annual productivity, other indices based on nest data tracked trends in productivity moderately well, and all, except percent nest success, detected a significant proportion of year-to-year changes in productivity. Productivity indices based on non-reproductive variables, such as abundance of males or females, return rates, and veteran:novice ratios, did not reflect productivity trends or changes. From these results, we recommend that only an intensive measure of actual productivity or a partial measure of it, such as May productivity, be used to make inferences about annual productivity of a population. Indices based on other nest data should be used only for tracking productivity trends. Non-reproductive indices are unreliable for making any inferences about productivity. /// Pusimos a prueba la capacidad de 29 ndices de productividad para predecir y seguir las variaciones anuales en la productividad real de una poblacin de Hylocichla mustelina por un perodo de 21 aos. De los 29 ndices probados, slo el de la productividad de los nidos iniciados en mayo result promisorio. Este ndice predijo la productividad razonablemente bien y detect correctamente dos de tres tendencias temporales en la productividad y una proporcin significativa de los cambios anuales en la productividad real. Aunque no fueron tiles para predecir la productividad anual, otros ndices basados en datos de nidos siguieron las tendencias en la productividad aceptablemente bien. Con excepcin del porcentaje de nidos exitosos, todos estos ndices detectaron una proporcin significativa de las variaciones anuales de la productividad. Por su parte, los ndices de productividad basados en variables no reproductivas como la abundancia de machos y hembras, las tasas de regreso y el cociente de aves veteranas: novatas no reflejaron las tendencias o cambios en la productividad real. Con base en estos resultados recomendamos que para hacer inferencias sobre la productividad anual de una poblacin slo se utilice una medida intensiva de la productividad, o una medida parcial de sta (i.e., la productividad en mayo). Los ndices basados en otros datos de nidos deben ser utilizados nicamente para monitorear las tendencias en la productividad. Los ndices no reproductivos son poco confiables para hacer inferencias sobre la productividad. 
10.2307/1370009|I examined variation in ovulation times of Northern Pintails (Anas acuta), American Wigeon (A. americana), and Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) breeding in subarctic Alaskan wetlands. Ovulation times and, by extension, egg-laying times were highly variable in all three species, with ovulations occurring during all hours of the day. Only Lesser Scaup demonstrated a morning peak in ovulations, within a broad range of ovulation times. Lack of a distinct time of day of ovulation suggests that fitness is not related to egg-laying time for these species, particularly at subarctic latitudes with nearly perpetual daylight. Egg-laying interval may have more adaptive significance than egg-laying time for these species. Ovulation intervals were estimated to be approximately 24 hr, which is short relative to the range of intervals documented in birds, despite high energetic and nutritional costs of egg formation in these species. Evidence of approximately 24-hr ovulation intervals, particularly in the absence of a distinct time of day for egg laying, supports hypotheses that a shortened period of egg production in waterfowl may have selective advantage due to reduction in the period of nest exposure to predation, earlier hatch dates, reduced hatch asynchrony, or improved viability of early-laid eggs.
10.2307/1369603|Variation in trill features of Rufous-collared Sparrow (Zonotrichia capensis) song is described in three sites located on the northeast coast of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. There is a distinctive "talar" dialect in sites supporting natural woodlands. This dialect is characterized by slower trills with lower minimum frequencies than the one present in the open grassy fields ("steppe" dialect). Talar dialect is absent in a site where natural woodlands have been replaced by grassy fields and open man-made parks, suggesting that the vocal tradition changed after habitat modification. Detailed analysis reveals that talar and steppe dialects intergrade in a song cline, following the vegetational ecotone. This song cline has been stable in location and features during the last decade, even though there were no geographic barriers impairing population or cultural exchange between habitats.
10.2307/1367221| Data from captive Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) suggest that the birds do not like the taste of Mono Lake (California) water, which is highly alkaline and saline (pH  10.0, osmolality  2,400 mOsm/kg). Nevertheless, Eared Grebes are present continuously at Mono Lake for several months, reaching peak numbes of 750,000 in late fall, when they feed primarily by diving for brine shrimp (Artemia sp.). The birds do not drink fresh water during their stay at Mono Lake. Yet, data on blood chemistry, osmolality of food and gut contents, and salt gland weights and their hypertrophy show that the ingestion of salt is not a major physiological problem for Eared Grebes in hypersaline environments. They evidently meet their water requirements from the body fluids of their prey, which are more dilute than the lake water, and minimize salt intake by minimizing the amount of water that they ingest during feeding. Their large tongue, which fills the oral cavity, is important in achieving this result. 
1370643| We revised distribution maps of potential presettlement habitat and current populations for Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) and Gunnison Sage-Grouse (C. minimus) in North America. The revised map of potential presettlement habitat included some areas omitted from previously published maps such as the San Luis Valley of Colorado and Jackson area of Wyoming. Areas excluded from the revised maps were those dominated by barren, alpine, and forest habitats. The resulting presettlement distribution of potential habitat for Greater Sage-Grouse encompassed 1 200 483 km<sup>2</sup>, with the species' current range 668 412 km<sup>2</sup>. The distribution of potential Gunnison Sage-Grouse habitat encompassed 46 521 km<sup>2</sup>, with the current range 4787 km<sup>2</sup>. The dramatic differences between the potential presettlement and current distributions appear related to habitat alteration and degradation, including the adverse effects of cultivation, fragmentation, reduction of sagebrush and native herbaceous cover, development, introduction and expansion of invasive plant species, encroachment by trees, and issues related to livestock grazing. /// Revisamos los mapas de distribucin potencial precolombino y de poblaciones actuales de Centrocerus urophasianus y C. minimus en Amrica del Norte. El mapa modificado de hbitat potencial precolombino incluy algunas reas omitidas de mapas anteriormente publicados, como el Valle San Luis de Colorado y el rea de Jackson, Wyoming. Las reas excludas de los mapas modificados fueron las dominadas por hbitats forestales, alpinos y estriles. La distribucin precolombina resultante para C. urophasianus abarc 1 200 483 km<sup>2</sup>, con un territorio actual de 668 412 km<sup>2</sup>. La distribucin de habitat potencial para C. minimus abarc 46 521 km<sup>2</sup>, con un territorio actual de 4787 km<sup>2</sup>. Estos contrastes tan marcados parecen estar relacionados con la modificacin y degradacin del hbitat, incluyendo los efectos nocivos de la agricultura, la fragmentacin de hbitat, la disminucin de Artemisia spp. y otras coberturas herbceas nativas, el desarollo, la introduccin y la expansin de especies de plantas invasoras, la invasin de rboles y cuestiones relacionadas con pastoreo de ganado. 
10.2307/1369360|I studied effects of sex, age, and month on body mass and composition of Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) at Catahoula Lake (CL) and the Mississippi River Delta (MRD), Louisiana, in winter 1987-1988. Size-adjusted body mass and fat varied by age, month, and site. Fat levels in immatures were greater at MRD than at CL, but changed similarly at both sites. Adults at MRD were also fatter than those at CL in early winter, especially in December, but fat levels of all birds increased from early to late winter and were equivalent by late winter. Body protein adjusted for structural size varied by age, month, and site, and sex, month, and site. Protein levels by site were higher in adults and males than in immatures and females, but sex- and age-related differences averaged <11 g (5%). Changes in size-adjusted leg muscle protein (index of feeding activity) and body fat were positively associated. This relation (my measure of feeding efficiency) was not affected by sex or age of Canvasbacks, implying that all birds at CL or MRD fed at similar efficiencies by month. At both sites, females were fatter than males; thus, although males were larger and potentially dominant to females, it appears that females were not disadvantaged in their acquisition of nutrients during the year of study. Body mass of CL and MRD birds in winter 1987-1988 was greater than that of Canvasbacks wintering elsewhere. If overwinter and annual survival of Canvasbacks are related to their relative body mass during winter, then survival probabilities of CL and MRD birds may be high compared to other wintering populations.
10.2307/1369598|We used egg removals, additions, and swaps (controls) to determine whether Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) are determinate or indeterminate layers. Since Tree Swallows modify their clutch size in response to their environments, and since egg additions and removals occur naturally in this species, we predicted full indeterminacy. Females laid more eggs in response to the removal of their third and fourth laid eggs but did not lay clutches outside the normal range. Females did not lay fewer eggs when an egg was added on each of the second and third days of laying. From this we conclude that Tree Swallows have limited removal indeterminacy but are determinate with respect to egg addition. When daily egg removal was used to keep females at 1 or 0 eggs, which led to abandonment of the nesting attempt followed by relaying, the second clutch was much larger, on average, than the first. This suggests that the first clutch had been terminated early. Thus Tree Swallows, although addition determinate, were capable of early cessation of laying. Although removal indeterminate, they were not capable of laying abnormally large clutches. We therefore argue that determinate and indeterminate laying patterns cannot be used to infer a female's ability to modify clutch size in response to other stimuli, and that strict categorization of Tree Swallows as determinate or indeterminate is not appropriate.
10.2307/1369951|We evaluated point transect, line transect, mark-resighting, and roost survey methods by comparing population estimates to a reference population of Green-rumped Parrotlets (Forpus passerinus) in the Ilanos of Venezuela. All four methods produced similar population estimates, reflected peaks in nesting and fledging, and almost always exceeded the known minimum population size. Congruence among the estimates decreased as the breeding season progressed. The mark-resighting method had the largest confidence intervals, but precision was similar for the other three methods. Point transect surveys appeared to underestimate the population in open habitat. Line transect surveys more accurately estimated the distribution of the population between habitats. Detection probability was more variable for point transects than for line transects. We recommend using line transect surveys rather than point transects when conditions allow. Roost surveys were complicated by the tendency of parrotlets to change roost sites often, and roost surveys underestimated populations during breeding. Roost surveys may be reliable during nonbreeding, and we recommend further development of roost survey protocol. Behavioral characteristics of Green-rumped Parrotlets allowed us to meet assumptions and requirements of all methods with the exception of mark-resighting. This success may not be replicated with other parrot species.
10.2307/1369650|We studied the diets, foraging strategies, and reproduction of Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) during five years at two colonies within Prince William Sound, Alaska. Years with reduced occurrence of 1-year-old Pacific herring (Clupea pallasi) in kittiwake diets were associated with increased foraging trip duration, distance, and travel time at both colonies. Foraging range was consistently greater at the large, fjord colony with an annual mean trip duration of 4 hr and mean distance to the farthest feeding location of 40 km in years when 1-year-old herring dominated diets; these numbers increased to a maximum mean of 6 hr and 60 km during a year when kittiwakes consumed primarily young-of-year (YOY) herring and Pacific sand lance (Ammodytes hexapterus). Foraging trips of kittiwakes at the small, island colony averaged 2 hr and 5 km during years when 1-year-old herring dominated diets and increased when capelin (Mallotus villosus) and YOY herring and sand lance were consumed. Consequences of reduced herring availability were greatest at the large colony where alternative prey was limited, resulting in reduced reproductive success. In contrast, kittiwakes from the small colony were able to compensate for reduced herring availability by obtaining sand lance and capelin in relatively close proximity, and maintained above average reproductive success. Time spent traveling and trip distance increased with greater trip duration. However, search and prey capture times were only weakly related to trip duration and may reflect foraging strategies that vary with different species, age classes, or availability of prey consumed.
10.2307/1368521|The nest advertisement and defense song of the Eurasian Tree Sparrow (Passer montanus) was examined for evidence of syllable sharing among populations. Twenty Eurasian Tree Sparrows were introduced into North America at St. Louis, Missouri in 1870 (Widmann 1889). The population subsequently expanded north and northeastward into Illinois and now numbers approximately 150,000 birds. Four populations were sampled, the closest site to St. Louis lying 85 km to the north. Jaccard's coefficient was used to assess the degree of syllable sharing among the populations sampled. Several syllables were found to be unique to one or two populations. A pattern of song similarity between populations was found that did not correspond to geographic distances between sample sites but may correspond to the direction of spread of the population.
10.2307/1369149|Relative abundance, breeding ecology, annual survival, home range, and foraging ecology of Akiapolaau (Hemignathus munroi), an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper, were studied on the island of Hawaii. The species is a specialist: Akiapolaau used koa (Acacia koa) for foraging much more than expected based on koa availability, and most Akiapolaau occurred in old-growth koa and ohia (Metrosideros polymorpha) forests. Male Akiapolaau most often foraged on the trunks and large branches of koa, whereas females used small branches and twigs. The longer bill of males is apparently adapted to the greater bark thickness of larger branches. Lichen-covered and dead branches were preferred feeding sites. Akiapolaau showed serial monogamy and had a relatively low reproductive rate of 0.86 young pair<sup>-1</sup> year<sup>-1</sup>, with a long parental dependency period. Home range sizes averaged 10.7 ha and did not differ between males and females. Annual survival for adults was 0.71. Avian diseases appear to restrict Akiapolaau to higher elevation forests where mosquitos are rare. Protection of remaining old-growth koa and ohia forests above the mosquito zone are critical to the survival of the species.
10.2307/1369935|I examined the foraging behavior of Sanderlings (Calidris alba) and Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) during their spring stopover period along the Atlantic coast of southern New Jersey following an oil spill. I used focal animal sampling to test the null hypothesis that there are no differences in foraging behavior as a function of the degree of oiling of birds. Nearly 50% of the foraging time of shorebirds was interrupted during the main period of beach oiling, primarily by clean-up personnel and vehicles that moved up and down the oiled beach, compared to less than 5% of the foraging time disruption at a control beach where birds were interrupted only by walkers and joggers. For both species, the time devoted to feeding decreased significantly, whereas the time devoted to standing about and preening increased significantly as percent of oiled plumage increased. For shorebirds that are already time-stressed in their refueling efforts before their long journey to arctic breeding grounds, these interruptions may prove fatal or might lower reproductive success once they reach the breeding grounds.
10.2307/1370000|We determined brood and duckling survival from 57 radio-marked Northern Pintail (Anas acuta) females in southern Alberta during 1994-1996, and related duckling survival to maternal and environmental attributes. Annual brood survival estimates ranged from 72.2% to 88.2%. Brood survival declined with hatch date in all years. Duckling survival was highest in 1994 at 65.2%, but fell to 42.4% and 43.8% in 1995 and 1996, respectively. Duckling mortality was highest during the first 10 days post-hatch in all years. Duckling survival did not vary with female age, or distance from nest to nearest wetland, but did decline throughout the breeding season. Duckling survival was higher for ducklings from larger broods in 1994, but the opposite trend was found in 1995 and 1996.
10.2307/1368162|The Silky-tailed Nightjar, Caprimulgus sericocaudatus, is identified by song from Yarinacocha, Ucayali, Peru, and from Misiones Province, Argentina. Two caprimulgids of Yucatan, Mexico and adjacent areas, C. badius and Nyctiphrynus yucatanicus, are shown to have almost certainly had their songs confused with each other by field ornithologists. By transposing their songs, the songs of each species then more closely resemble the songs of their presumed close relatives. Thus, the ree-o-ree song of C. badius closely resembles the song of C. sericocaudatus and the will song of N. yucatanicus resembles the songs of N. mcleodii and N. ocellatus. The chip-willow song of C. salvini is shown in a sonogram to be a temporally condensed version (with similar frequency modulation) of the song of C. badius and C. sericocaudatus, its presumed close relatives. It is hypothesized that the ree-o-ree song is primitive and the chip-willow song derived.
10.2307/1368159|Annual cyclicity of body components in wintering Pacific Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis fulva), combined with ecological and behavioral features were variously studied from 1978 through 1987. The primary research site was in Hawaii at the Bellows Air Force Station (BAFS), Oahu. After fall arrival, body weights trended downward for several weeks, possibly in response to the energy required for the behaviors associated with establishing (and reestablishing) residency combined with molting. Major premigratory weight gains began in late March about 1 month prior to migration. Statistical correlations between body weight and fat content are described. Premigratory dehydration as an adaptation to increase flight range and/or energy stores at the migratory destination was likely. Fat-free dry weights (FFDW) at BAFS were least in the fall and greatest in the spring. For juveniles, this difference relates to overall body growth during the first wintering season. With older birds, it may reflect the environmental conditions at the respective end points of migration--predictably favorable for southbound migrants, unpredictable for northbound birds. Plovers wintering on Enewetak Atoll and Wake Island had significantly higher FFDWs than the birds at BAFS. Possible factors in this relationship are discussed. The BAFS population contained many territorial birds, and showed high rates of survival and site fidelity over successive years. Juveniles arriving on the wintering grounds for the first time probably experience considerable mortality as they compete with established adults for space and resources. Based on wing lengths, many of the plovers involved in this study were from Alaska breeding grounds. Flyways to the tundra may involve staging areas, but specific information is lacking. Using current formulae, we describe the relationship between body weight and flight range, and provide estimates of the fat required to reach various landfalls.
10.2307/1368985|DNA fingerprinting was used to compare levels of genetic variation among 75 wild Hawaiian Geese, or Nene (Branta sandvicensis), from six populations on the islands of Hawaii, Maui, and Kauai and between the six wild populations and a captive colony of 29 Nene. Mantel tests were used to determine differences in similarity coefficient distributions (amount of genetic similarity among individuals within each population) among wild Nene and between wild and captive Nene. Nene from Hawaii Volcanoes National Park on the island of Hawaii had the lowest similarity coefficient distribution, whereas Nene on Kauai had the highest. Captive birds had an intermediate similarity coefficient distribution when compared to wild populations. No unique DNA fingerprint fragments were found in wild birds when compared to captive birds. Successful recruitment of migrants might have decreased similarity at Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, whereas inbreeding and captive-release techniques might have increased similarity on Kauai. Varying levels of inbreeding or fixation by drift might explain differences in similarity coefficient distributions between wild and captive populations.
10.2307/1367400|Systematic field experiments show that procellariiform birds, viz., Black-footed Albatrosses (Diomedea nigripes), shearwaters (Puffinus griseus, P. creatopus, P. puffinus, P. bulleri, and P. tenuirostris), Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis), and storm-petrels of several species, are consistently attracted to sources of food-related odors under natural conditions at sea with controlled visual cues. They approach predominantly from down-wind, in proportions above control levels, when food odors are presented as surface slicks, slicks spread in large shallow pools of plastic floating on the ocean, and by saturated wicks on free-floating rafts. Control stimuli and odorous materials unrelated to food do not attract procellariiforms. Birds of other orders are not attracted by any odorous stimulus, and approach the areas from all directions only when discrete visual stimuli are added. Observations and photographs reveal a flight pattern displayed only by procellariiforms in their apparent foraging approaches to food-related stimuli. Tube-nosed birds are most numerous under conditions of reduced visibility, high winds, large swells, and turbulent ocean surface. The results of this study strongly support the view, previously based on comparative anatomy and uncontrolled observations, that procellariiforms use olfaction in locating food.
10.2307/1370448|We evaluated the effect of summer biogeography of migrant wood warblers (Parulidae) on their stopover abundance. To characterize abundance patterns, we used mistnet capture data from spring and fall migration in the Middle Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico, spring migration on the Gulf Coast of Louisiana, and fall migration on the Gulf Coast of Alabama. To describe the summer biogeography of 47 species of wood warblers, we used indices of their summer range size, their summer density, and distance between their summer ranges and our netting sites. Multiple linear regressions indicated that biogeographic indices explained 55% and 49% of variation in captures in the Middle Rio Grande Valley during spring and fall, respectively. On the Gulf Coast these regressions explained 25% of the variation during spring at the Louisiana site and 51% during fall at the Alabama site. Both summer range size and distance between the summer range and study sites explained significant portions of the variation in three of the four analyses. Interestingly, the importance of biogeographic factors was least evident among spring migrants along the Gulf Coast of Louisiana. The difference between this site and other sites may reflect differences between migrants arriving after a Gulf crossing and those migrating across continental land masses or possibly an increased importance of winter biogeography for migrants crossing the Gulf of Mexico in the spring. In general, these results indicate that abundance of migrant warblers at our netting sites in both the eastern and western United States during spring and fall migration were influenced by summer biogeography. Consequently, we suggest including biogeographic analyses in assessments of conservation priorities for local stopover sites.
10.2307/1367820|Avian cytogenetic research has, until recently, lagged far behind efforts devoted to the cytogenetics of other vertebrate groups. Avian chromosomes are inherently difficult to study because most are minute and their morphology and number are obscure. Since 1966, improved methods of culturing avian cells have resulted in more comparative chromosome studies whose quality parallels those for mammals. Recent activity in comparative avian cytogenetics now allows us to assess such factors as the overall karyotypic variability in birds and to consider the role that chromosomal change plays in avian speciation. In the present study, chromosomal variability was assessed within and among species of the same genus and within orders of birds. Chromosomal differences among local populations appear to be associated either with mechanisms that support balanced polymorphism or frequency dependent selection and not with speciation. The data are discussed in light of current models of chromosome evolution proposed for vertebrates other than birds.
10.2307/1366991|The behavior patterns of captive Black-headed Ducks (Heteronetta atricapilla) at the Wildfowl Trust, Slimbridge, Gloucester, were studied for three consecutive breeding seasons to investigate the breeding biology of this parasitic species. The birds fed mostly in the early morning and swam most actively in the evening, while they mainly rested on land during midday. In the evening, both males and females patrolled or skulked near nest sites of other birds, apparently searching for a suitable host to parasitize. The existence of pair-bonds during the breeding season was fully established; copulation and egg-laying were observed. Two Black-headed Duck eggs were returned to the nest of a Rosy-billed Pochard (Netta peposaca) to determine the post-hatching behavior of the young and the role of the host bird. One Black-headed duckling hatched before any of the host's own clutch and left the nest on its own one day after hatching. The second duckling, which hatched with the young pochards, accompanied the family to water and returned to the female for warmth and protection (at increasingly infrequent intervals) for two days. These findings emphasize the uniqueness of the species and reinforce the case for placing Heteronetta in a tribe of its own.
4151016| Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia) populations have declined extensively throughout much of North America, and modeling demography may assist conservation. However, few studies have estimated adult survival, and fewer still have determined juvenile survival. In 2003 and 2004 we monitored survival of 40 radio-tagged juveniles during the postfledging period in the Little Missouri National Grassland, North Dakota, where owls nested in black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies. Survival averaged 0.57 (95 CI: 0.41-0.73) prior to autumn migration. Mortality was highest during the first two weeks after nest departure when juveniles were flightless, and two to three weeks later when juveniles became independent. Predation or starvation was implicated in most deaths. Distribution and abundance of escape cover (number of prairie dog burrows within 30 m of nests and size of the natal prairie dog colony) did not affect survival. Body condition and brood size at the time of radio-tagging also did not influence survival. Juvenile owls exhibited nest-centered dispersal, and averaged 108  21 (SE) m and 82  17 m from nests at initiation of migration in 2003 and 2004, respectively. Mean dates of departure from the study area were 2 September (3 days) 2003 and 24 August (2 days) 2004. Mortality during the postfledging period accounted for approximately two-thirds of mortality in the first year of life. /// Las poblaciones de Athene cunicularia han declinado fuertemente a travs de buena parte de Norte Amrica. Aunque el modelado demogrfico podra contribuir a su conservatin, pocos estudios han estimado la supervivencia de los adultos y menos an la de los juveniles. En 2003 y 2004 monitoreamos la supervivencia de 40 individuos juveniles marcados con transmisores de radio durante el perodo posterior al abandono del nido en Little Missouri National Grassland, North Dakota, un rea en donde A. cunicularia cra en colonias de perros de la pradera (Cynomys ludovicianus). La supervivencia durante el perodo previo a la migracin de otoo fue en promedio de 0.57 (IC del 95%: 0.41-0.73). La mortalidad fue mxima durante las primeras dos semanas posteriores abandono del nido, cuando los juveniles eran an incapaces de volar, y dos a trs semanas ms tarde, cuando alcanzaron la independencia. La mayora de las muertes fueron causadas por depredatin o por inanitin. La distribucin y abundancia de los lugares para esconderse el nmero de madrigueras de C. ludovicianus a menos de 30 m de los nidos y el tamao de la colonia en la que los nidos se ubicaron) no afectaron la supervivencia. La conditin corporal y el tamao de la nidada al momento del marcado con transmisores tampoco influenciaron la supervivencia. La dispersin de los juveniles se centr alrededor de los nidos, y se encontraron en promedio a 108  21 (EE) m y a 82  17m de stos al iniciar la migracin en 2003 y 2004, respectivamente. Las fechas promedio de abandono del rea de estudio fueron el 2 de septiembre (3 das) en 2003 y el 24 de agosto (2 das) en 2004. La mortalidad durante el periodo posterior al abandono del nido constituy cerca de dos tercios de la mortalidad observada en el primer ao de vida. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090110|West Nile virus (WNV) infection has caused high levels of mortality in North American hawks and owls. To investigate the extent of infection among raptors of conservation concern in the Sierra Nevada, we tested 62 Northern Goshawks (
4151079| Blue-black Grassquits (Volatinia jacarina) are small, granivorous, Neotropical birds that are abundant in central Brazil. During the reproductive season, the socially monogamous males acquire a blue-black plumage and defend very small, clustered territories that resemble leks. They execute a conspicuous courtship display that consists of a leap, revealing white under-wing patches, synchronized with a vocalization. We collected data on the morphology and behavior of banded males and characteristics of their territories to determine how these factors may influence acquisition of mates and nesting. For a second group of birds in the area, we used micro satellite genotyping to test the breeding synchrony hypothesis, which predicts that tropical species that breed synchronously should exhibit high rates of extra-pair fertilization (EPF). We found that males that successfully formed a pair bond differed from unsuccessful males in their behavior, but not in morphological attributes or territory features Successful males spent more time in their territories, executed displays for longer periods and at greater rates, and their display leaps were higher. These results point to the greater importance of behavior relative to other factors in the successful reproduction of Blue-black Grassquit males. In the second group of birds, EPFs occurred in 63% of 11 nests and involved 50% of the 20 chicks sampled. This exceptionally high incidence of EPF in the small sample analyzed occurred in diverse contexts, including intraspeciflc parasitism and quasi-parasitism, a rare type of maternity loss where the resident female is parasitized by other females that were fertilized by the resident male. A short and highly synchronized breeding season, clustered breeding in small territories, and granivorous habits may contribute to the high rates of EPF in this tropical species. /// O Tiziu (Volatinia jacarina)  um pequeno pssaro granvoro neotropical muito abundante na regio central do Brasil. Durante a estao reprodutiva os machos socialmente monogmicos adquirem uma plumagem negro-azulada e defendem pequenos territrios agrupados, em um padro que lembra o sistema reprodutivo do tipo lek. Tais machos realizam ainda uma exibio comportamental bastante conspcua, que consiste de pequenos saltos seguidos de uma breve exposio das manchas brancas sob as asas juntamente com uma vocalizao. De modo a estudar aspectos relacionados  aquisio de parceiros reprodutivos e nidificao, ns coletamos dados sobre a morfologia e comportamento de machos anilhados, assim como as caractersticas de seus territrios. Utilizamos, ainda, marcadores moleculares microsatlites para testar a hiptese da sincronia reprodutiva, que prev altas taxas de cpula extra-par (CEP) em espcies tropicais que se reproduzem sincronicamente. Os resultados mostram que machos que se reproduziram localmente diferiram dos que no se reproduziram com relao s suas caractersticas comportamentais, mas no com relao aos diferentes aspectos de sua morfologia e caractersticas territoriais. Machos bem sucedidos reprodutivamente passaram mais tempo dentro de seus territorios, executaram suas exibies durante maiores perodos de tempo e, ainda, apresentaram taxas de execuo e altura dos saltos mais elevadas. As CEP ocorreram em 63% dos 11 ninhos amostrados e envolveram 50% dos 20 fllhotes encontrados. Esta elevada taxa de CEP ocorreu de diversos modos, incluindo o parasitismo intra-especifico e o quasi-parasitismo, um tipo raro de perda de maternidade, onde a fmea residente  parasitada por outras fmeas que foram fertilizadas pelo macho residente. Estes resultados mostram a grande importncia do comportamento na reproduo do tiziu e indicam que a curta e sincronizada estao reprodutiva, aliada  reproduo em pequenos territrios agrupados, alm dos hbitos granvoros da espcie, podem contribuir para as altas taxas de CEP. 
10.2307/1369569|Few studies have examined song variation in populations of birds over sufficiently long periods of time to demonstrate changes in the geographic distribution of song types. Baptista (1977) recorded songs of Puget Sound White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis) over much of their range in 1970 and 1977, describing six song dialects on the basis of differences in the terminal trills of songs. We documented the distribution of song dialects in the northern part of the range of this subspecies in 1993 and 1994. The two most-widespread dialects have persisted, but the limits of their distributions have changed. One dialect with limited distribution in 1970 was not encountered. We describe two previously-undocumented dialects with limited distribution, and identify subdialects whose distribution seems to be related to barriers to dispersal. We have no reason to believe that changes observed are the result of selection for one song type over another.
10.2307/1370404|Although we have learned much about avian life histories during the 50 years since the seminal publications of David Lack, Alexander Skutch, and Reginald Moreau, we still do not have adequate explanations for some of the basic patterns of variation in life-history traits among birds. In part, this reflects two consequences of the predominance of evolutionary ecology thinking during the past three decades. First, by blurring the distinction between life-history traits and life-table variables, we have tended to divorce life histories from their environmental context, which forms the link between the life history and the life table. Second, by emphasizing constrained evolutionary responses to selective factors, we have set aside alternative explanations for observed correlations among life-history traits and life-table variables. Density-dependent feedback and independent evolutionary response to correlated aspects of the environment also may link traits through different mechanisms. Additionally, in some cases we have failed to evaluate quantitatively ideas that are compelling qualitatively, ignored or explained away relevant empirical data, and neglected logical implications of certain compelling ideas. Comparative analysis of avian life histories shows that species are distributed along a dominant slow-fast axis. Furthermore, among birds, annual reproductive rate and adult mortality are directly proportional to each other, requiring that pre-reproductive survival is approximately constant. This further implies that age at maturity increases dramatically with increasing adult survival rate. The significance of these correlations is obscure, particularly because survival and reproductive rates at each age include the effects of many life-history traits. For example, reproductive rate is determined by clutch size, nesting success, season length, and nest-cycle length, each of which represents the outcome of many different interactions of an individual's life-history traits with its environment. Resolution of the most basic issues raised by patterns of life histories clearly will require innovative empirical, modeling, and experimental approaches. However, the most fundamental change required at this time is a broadening of the evolutionary ecology paradigm to include a variety of alternative mechanisms for generating patterns of life-history variation.
10.2307/1367580|We examined the function of rictal bristles on Willow Flycatchers by testing whether their removal or the placement of small pieces of transparent tape on them would reduce the ability of captive birds to capture live house flies. Neither operation adversely affected the birds' ability to capture prey, indicating that the rictal bristles do not aid in prey capture. Other experiments with bird specimens placed in a wind tunnel demonstrated that rictal bristles may protect the eyes from food items the bird is trying to capture. Particles released in front of the bird's open mouth and blown back towards its head struck an eye more frequently after the rictal bristles had been removed.
40306175|Altricial young face two significant energetic challenges in the nest: thermoregulation and stress caused by ectoparasites. Ectoparasites feed on blood of nestlings and serve as vectors for bacterial and viral infections. Many bird species line their nests with feathers, which insulate the nest and reduce heat loss from chicks. Feathers may also affect ectoparasite numbers by serving as a parasite barrier. We tested the possible roles of nest feathers and the effects of nest parasites on the growth and survival of Tree Swallow (
10.2307/1368611|Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) differentiation was studied among members of the Brown Towhee complex, Pipilo albicollis, P. aberti, P. fuscus, and P. crissalis. Using 16 restriction endonucleases, 196 fragments and 119 sites were observed, and an average interspecific sequence divergence of 6.4% was estimated. There was little geographic differentiation between Baja California and California samples of crissalis or between California and Arizona samples of aberti. Using phylogenetic procedures, it was shown that aberti and crissalis are sister taxa, as predicted by Davis (1951). Allozyme and mtDNA data clearly support the species distinction of crissalis and fuscus. The relationship between albicollis and fuscus, viewed as sister taxa by Zink (1988) based on allozymes, is supported albeit not strongly by the mtDNA data. MtDNA and allozyme data reveal similar patterns of evolutionary history within this group.
10.2307/1368813| Genetic differentiation among four Mexican populations each of Common Bush-tanagers (Chlorospingus ophthalmicus) and Chestnut-capped Brush-finches (Atlapetes brunneinucha) was evaluated using allozyme electrophoresis. In both species, although levels of within-population variation are moderate, among-population variation is extreme, including fixed differences among populations. Genetic variation is significantly reduced in some populations on the smallest habitat islands. Differentiation is apparently unrelated to geographic distance among populations, and effects of habitat island size and isolation on genetic differentiation are not clear. Populations of the Sierra de los Tuxtlas in Veracruz, however, are strongly differentiated in both species./// La diferenciacin gentica entre cuatro poblaciones mexicanas del Saltn Chayotero (Atlapetes brunneinucha) y del Cerquero Verde (Chlorospingus ophthalmicus) fue estudiada usando electroforsis de alozimas. Los niveles de variabilidad intrapoblacional fueron moderados, pero la variabilidad entre poblaciones fue extrema, incluyendo diferencias fijas entre poblaciones, en ambas especies. La variacin gentica fue reducida significativamente en algunas poblaciones de las islas-habitat ms pequeas. Aparentemente, la diferenciacin no est relacionada a la distancia geogrfica entre poblaciones, y los efectos de tamao de la isla-habitat y de aislamiento sobre la diferenciacin gentica son inciertos. Las poblaciones de la Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, sin embargo, estn diferenciadas marcadamente en ambas especies. 
10.2307/1367593|The ecological and social interactions of the interspecifically aggressive Red-eyed (Vireo olivaceus) and Philadelphia (V. philadelphicus) vireos were studied during four breeding seasons in the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, New Hampshire. The two species here have extensively overlapping territories but occupy different vegetational strata during most of the breeding season. The aggressiveness of the Philadelphia Vireo towards the Red-eyed Vireo varies within a breeding season, being most frequent and intense during the periods of greatest vertical overlap. The aggressiveness of Red-eyed Vireos towards Philadelphia Vireos varies between years, being most frequent and intense in years of high Red-eyed Vireo population density. In one year no aggression was apparent between the two vireos. During some aggressive encounters, the smaller, subordinate Philadelphia Vireo used what appeared to be distraction displays when Red-eyed Vireos came close to their young. I hypothesize that resource competition may be the underlying cause of the aggression between these two ecologically similar species, largely because the most intense and frequent interspecific interactions occurred during periods of maximum overlap in foraging microhabitat. A comparison of these findings with those in another study illustrates the importance of forest height and vegetation structure in facilitating their coexistence.
10.2307/1366998|Activity recorders were attached to 13 Gray-headed Albatrosses (Diomedea chrysostoma) rearing chicks at South Georgia in February 1982. During foraging trips to sea totalling 284 bird-days, an average of 74% of the time was spent flying, and 15% of the day and 50% of the night were spent on the sea. The extensive nocturnal activity on the water strongly supports suggestions that the species feeds mainly at night. Using activity budget data with field data on foraging trip length and flight speeds and patterns, maximum foraging range is estimated to be 500-800 km.
1370049| Data-loggers can be implanted into the body cavities of birds to monitor their physiology and behavior. This technology opens the potential for year-round monitoring, as long as data-loggers can be retrieved one year later and the implantation does not alter the bird's health or behavior. We tested the impact of carrying data-loggers on reproductive parameters of nine female Common Eiders breeding in the Baltic Sea. We minimized disturbance and maximized return rates of experimental females by implanting data-loggers during the second half of the incubation period and by choosing early breeders, which were presumably high quality individuals. All experimental females came back to the study plot the year following implantation. Using a before-after approach applied to an experimental and a control group, we found no evidence that carrying data-loggers had any harmful effect on laying dates, clutch sizes, or hatching success of experimental females. It appears that data-loggers implanted in the body cavities of female Common Eiders do not interfere with their reproductive activities. Explanations for this result are that data-loggers are small compared to body mass (<1%), and their implantation into the body cavity does not alter the hydrodynamic or aerodynamic properties of these diving birds. /// Pequeos medidores (i.e., "data-loggers") pueden ser implantados en las cavidades corporales de las aves para monitorear su fisiologa y comportamiento. Esta tecnologa abre el potencial para realizar monitoreos a lo largo del ao, siempre y cuando los medidores puedan ser recuperados un ao ms tarde y stos no afecten la salud o el comportamiento de las aves. Evaluamos el impacto de llevar medidores sobre parmetros reproductivos de nueve hembras de la especie Somateria mollissima que se estaban reproduciendo en el Mar Bltico. Minimizamos el disturbio y maximizamos las tasas de retorno de las hembras experimentales implantando los medidores durante la segunda mitad del perodo de incubacin y escogiendo aquellas que se reprodujeron al comienzo de la estacin, que presumiblemente eran individuos de alta calidad. Todas las hembras experimentales regresaron al sitio de estudio al ao siguiente de la implantacin. Utilizando un mtodo de antes y despus aplicado a un grupo experimental y a uno de control, no encontramos evidencia de que llevar medidores tenga algn efecto negativo sobre la fecha de postura, el tamao de la nidada o el xito de eclosin de las hembras experimentales. Al parecer, los medidores implantados en las cavidades corporales de las hembras de S. mollissima no interfieren con sus actividades reproductivas. Las explicaciones para este resultado son que los medidores son pequeos en comparacin con la masa corporal (<1%), y que su implantacin en la cavidad corporal no altera las propiedades hidrodinmicas ni aerodinmicas de estas aves buceadoras. 
10.2307/1370187| The Timberline Sparrow (Spizella taverneri), although originally described as a species, is currently classified as a subspecies of the more widespread Brewer's Sparrow (S. breweri). We investigated the taxonomic status and recent evolutionary history of these species by comparison of both morphological and molecular characters. Morphometric comparisons using 6 external and 18 skeletal measurements show that S. taverneri specimens from two widely separated populations (Yukon and southwestern Alberta, Canada) are indistinguishable with respect to size yet are significantly larger (by 3%) than representatives of several breweri populations. Analysis of 1,413 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) for 10 breweri and 5 taverneri samples representing widely scattered breeding populations revealed a maximum divergence among any breweri-taverneri pair of 0.21% and an overall average of 0.13%. In contrast, the average ( SE) pairwise distance among the other Spizella species is 5.7  0.5%. We discovered that breweri and taverneri could be distinguished on the basis of a single, fixed nucleotide difference. Of an additional 11 taverneri and 8 breweri surveyed for this diagnostic site, a single bird (morphologically a taverneri) from northwest British Columbia did not sort to "type." Overall, 18 of 18 breweri and 15 of 16 taverneri were diagnosable. We interpret these results to suggest that gene flow does not currently occur between these two forms and that each is on an independent, albeit recently derived, evolutionary course. The molecular data are consistent with theoretical expectations of a Late Pleistocene speciation event. We believe that for passerine birds, this is the first empirical validation of this widely accepted evolutionary model. The data presented corroborate plumage, vocal, and ecological evidence suggesting that these taxa are distinct. As such, we suggest that Spizella taverneri be recognized as a species. 
40072424|It has been hypothesized that populations that are strongly connected between two periods of the year (i.e., individuals that breed in similar locations and also spend the nonbreeding season in similar locations) will be most vulnerable to population perturbations. Using stable-hydrogen isotopes in feathers and data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey, we examined this hypothesis for a vulnerable songbird, the Cerulean Warbler (
10.2307/1368959|An evaluation of the singing behavior of the Japanese wren (Troglodytes troglodytes fumigatus) might help to identify the origin of Old World wren populations and the forces that have molded the remarkable songs of this species throughout the Holarctic. The Japanese wrens seem identical to European wrens: males have repertoires of 6-7 highly repeatable song types of comparable duration and complexity. Wrens of eastern North America have a similar song organization, but the internal microstructure of songs is simpler and repertoires are only 1-3 song types apiece. Both of these song populations are highly different from the wrens of western North America, which use songs with greater internal variety, more variable sequences of songs, and hence much larger repertoires of song types. These behavioral data are consistent with a hypothesis that populations in the mountainous regions of western North America were isolated before the "eastern" North American wren colonized the Old World, probably via the Bering Straits. Not knowing the malleability of these vocal behaviors under different life histories, however, makes such a phyletic conclusion highly tentative.
4500990| Historically, studies of habitat selection have focused on quantifying how current patterns of habitat occupancy influence condition and survival within a season. This approach, however, is overly simplistic, especially for migratory birds that spend different periods of the year in geographically distinct places. Habitat occupancy and the resulting condition of individual birds is likely to be affected by events in the previous season, and the consequences of habitat occupancy will influence individuals and populations in subsequent seasons. Thus, for migratory birds, variation in habitat quality (and quantity) needs to be understood in the context of how events interact throughout periods of the annual cycle. Seasonal interactions can occur at the individual level or population level. Individual-level interactions occur when events in one season produce nonlethal, residual effects that carry over to influence individuals the following season. Population-level interactions occur when a change in population size in one season influences per capita rates the following season. We review various methods for estimating seasonal interactions and highlight a number of examples in the literature. Using a variety of techniques, including intrinsic and extrinsic markers, the vast majority of studies to date have measured seasonal interactions at the individual level. Obtaining estimates of density and changes in per capita rates across multiple seasons to determine population-level interactions has been more challenging. Both types of seasonal interactions can influence population dynamics, but predicting their effects requires detailed knowledge of how populations are geographically connected (i.e., migratory connectivity). We recommend that researchers studying habitat occupancy and habitat selection consider how events in previous seasons influence events within a season. /// Histricamente los estudios sobre seleccin de hbitat se han enfocado en cuantificar cmo los patrones de ocupacin de hbitat en un momento determinado influencian la condicin y supervivencia de las aves dentro de una estacin. Sin embargo, este enfoque es demasiado simplista, especialmente para las aves migratorias que pasan diferentes periodos del ao en lugares geogrficos diferentes. La ocupacin de un hbitat y la consecuente condicin de cada individuo son influenciadas muy probablemente por los eventos ocurridos en las pocas anteriores, y las consecuencias de la ocupacin de un hbitat determinado influenciarn tanto a los individuos como a las poblaciones en las pocas futuras. De este modo, deben entenderse las variaciones en la calidad (y cantidad) de hbitat para las aves migratorias en el contexto de la interaccin de los diferentes eventos ocurridos a travs del ciclo anual. Las interacciones estacionales pueden ocurrir tanto a nivel de individuo como de poblaciones. Las interacciones a nivel de individuo ocurren cuando un evento en una estacin produce un efecto residual y no letal que influencia a los individuos durante la poca siguiente. Las interacciones a nivel poblacional ocurren cuando un cambio en el tamao poblacional en una poca influencia las tasas per cpita en la poca siguiente. En este estudio, revisamos varios mtodos para estimar las interacciones estacionales y resaltamos una variedad de ejemplos de la literatura. Hasta ahora la mayora de los estudios han medido interacciones estacionales slo a nivel de individuo, utilizando variadas tcnicas que incluyen marcadores intrnsecos y extrnsecos. La obtencin de datos sobre cambios en la densidad y en las tasas per cpita a travs de mltiples pocas para determinar interacciones a nivel poblacional ha sido mucho ms dificil. Ambos tipos de interacciones pueden influenciar las dinmicas poblacionales, pero la prediccin de sus efectos requiere de un conocimiento detallado de la conexin geogrfica de las poblaciones (i.e., conectividad migratoria). Recomendamos que los investigadores que estudian patrones de ocupacin y de seleccin de hbitat tomen en consideracin el modo en que los eventos en una poca determinada son influenciados por los eventos que ocurrieron en las pocas anteriores. 
10.2307/1370422|We report the results of morphological and hormonal measurements of 101 male Common Pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) captured during winter and at the beginning of the breeding season in order to identify correlates of ornament size. Androgen levels in January were bimodally distributed with one group with low hormone levels and a second group with high levels. In February, log transformed androgen levels were normally distributed, with all males showing values similar to the high-level group in January. Wattle size was positively correlated with androgens in January but not in February, suggesting that this male trait can indicate the ability of quality males to start earlier androgen production.
10.2307/1369098| Foraging ecology and diet of eight species of epiphyte-searching insectivorous birds were studied in the Talamanca mountains of Costa Rica to determine degree of epiphyte specialization. To measure species' selectivity for epiphytic substrates, quantitative data on epiphyte availability was compared to actual bird use of epiphytes. Associations between each species and its foraging substrates, foraging maneuvers, and diets suggested a continuum in foraging behaviors across the eight species. At one end of this continuum were substrate-restricted species, whose foraging behavior and prey choice appear to have been mediated by the nature of their foraging substrates. At the other end of the continuum were prey-specific species, whose foraging behavior and substrate choice appear to have been determined by the nature of their prey. Four species in the study area (approximately 8% of the resident avifauna) were epiphyte specialists: Pseudocolaptes lawrencii on arboreal bromeliads, Margarornis rubiginosus on bryophytes, Lepidocolaptes affinis on bryophytes and foliose lichens, and Troglodytes ochraceus on epiphytic root masses. /// La dieta y aspectos ecolgicos del forrajeo fueron estudiados en ocho (8) especies de aves insectvoras que buscan su alimento en plantas epfitas en las montaas de Talamanca, Costa Rica, para determinar el grado de especializacin en estas plantas epfitas. Para medir la selectividad de las especies por el substrato epifitico, datos cuantitativos sobre la disponibilidad de las plantas epfitas fueron comparados con el uso que las aves hacen de esas plantas. Asosiaciones entre cada especie de aves, su substrato y las maniobras de forrajeo, con su dieta sugirieron un continuo en el comportamiento alimenticio a traves de las ocho especies estudiadas. En uno de los extremos de dicho continuo estuvieron las especies restringidas-al-substrato cuyo comportamiento alimenticio y la seleccin de las presas parecieron estar determinadas por la naturaleza de su substrato de forrajeo. En el otro extremo del continuo estuvieron las especies restringidas-a-la-presa cuyo comportamiento alimenticio y seleccin del substrato parecieron determinados por la naturaleza de sus presas. Cuatro especies en el rea (aproximdamente 8% de la avifauna residente) resultaron ser especialistas en las epfitas Pseudocolaptes lawrencii en bromelias arboreas, Margarornis rubiginosus en briofitas, Lepidocolaptes affinis en briofitas y liquenes foliosos y Troglodytes ochraceus en masas de raices epfitas. 
10.2307/1369021|To test the critical short-term predictions of the individual optimization hypothesis (IOH), Yellow-headed Blackbird (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus) clutches of three and four eggs were experimentally enlarged or reduced by one egg, and broods were monitored until fledging. Predictions that control clutches would a) have greater fledging success than experimental clutches, and b) produce heavier or bigger offspring than enlarged broods were generally not supported. Within control clutches, the number of nestlings that fledged did not increase with clutch size. In fact, three-egg clutches were more productive than the most common clutch size of four eggs. The IOH appears to be unsupported for this population, at least up until the time of fledging. We suggest a potential insurance value exists for the fourth-laid egg, thus explaining the maintenance of a modal clutch size of four eggs in this species.
10.2307/1369474|We studied the relationship between a generalist brood parasite, the Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) and one of its hosts, the Brown-and-Yellow Marshbird (Pseudoleistes virescens). Seventy-four percent of the nests found were parasitized. Although the parasite lays both white and spotted eggs, most of the cowbird eggs found in the nests of this host were spotted. Artificial parasitism experiments showed that the host rejected the cowbird white eggs. Shiny cowbird parasitism reduced the nesting success of the Brown-and-Yellow Marshbird mainly by punctures or cracks of the host eggs. The reduction of the nesting success of the parasite was due mostly to the loss of eggs in multiple parasitized nests. Shiny cowbird chicks were not outcompeted for food although they are smaller than the host chicks. The Brown-and-Yellow Marshbird appears to be a very good host, capable of rearing up to four cowbird chicks in a nest. We compared the nesting success of the Shiny Cowbird in Brown-and-Yellow Marshbird nests with its nesting success in the other sympatric hosts studied.
10.2307/1368188|Thirty nests of Hammond's (Empidonax hammondii) and 88 nests of Pacific-slope (E. difficilis) Flycatchers were located in different-aged Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii)/tanoak (Lithocarpus densiflorus) dominated forests at 12 study sites in northwestern California during the breeding seasons of 1984, 1985, 1987, and 1988. In contrast to Pacific-slope Flycatchers, Hammond's used nest trees that averaged two to three times taller; placed nests three times higher and farther from the tree bole; used only live trees; placed nests only on small- to medium-diameter branches; situated nests in areas with higher foliage cover; and favored nest placement on the northeast and southwest sides of trees. Attributes of nesting habitat also differed between species among different stand development stages. Hammond's Flycatchers in old-growth and mature forests chose nest sites with more open canopy than that found at random sites. Pacific-slope Flycatchers in old-growth and mature forests nested at sites with a lower mid-canopy bole height. In young stands, Pacific-slope Flycatchers selected nest sites with large Douglas-firs and Pacific madrone (Arbutus menziesii) trees, higher shrub cover, and fewer medium-size Douglas-fir trees. Hammond's Flycatchers were not found in younger stands. We speculate that if old-growth Douglas-fir/tanoak forests are greatly reduced or eliminated in northwestern California, the density of breeding Hammond's Flycatcher will decrease substantially. However, Pacific-slope Flycatchers would probably be less affected by conversion of old-growth forests to younger-aged classes.
10.2307/1368319|The Antarctic Shag can be discriminated from its congeners by five osteological characters. Using these characters, we were able to identify bones of this species in five shell middens located in southern Fuego-Patagonia. The temporal distribution of these elements extends from historical times (280 YBP) to the middle Holocene (6,100 YBP). These extra-limital birds may have reached Fuegian waters through chance events, by postbreeding dispersal, or as vagrants from a yet undiscovered Fuegian colony. We discuss the implication of these and other findings on the specific status of the Antarctic Shag and its sympatry with the Imperial Shag. The current designation of the Antarctic Shag is proposed as Notocarbo bransfieldensis (Friedmann 1945).
10.1525/cond.2011.100009|Quantifying the spatial genetic structure of highly vagile species of birds is important in predicting their degree of population demographic and genetic independence during changing environmental conditions, and in assessing their abundance and distribution. In the western Arctic, Lesser Snow Geese (
10.2307/1369936|We used data from pre- and post-spill surveys to assess the effects of the Exxon Valdez oil spill on the abundance and distribution of birds in Prince William Sound, Alaska. We conducted post-spill surveys during mid-summer (1989-1991) in 10 bays that had been surveyed prior to the spill (1984-1985) and that had experienced different levels of initial oiling from the spill (unoiled to heavily oiled). We evaluated whether there were changes in overall abundance across all bays between the pre-spill and post-spill sampling periods, and changes in abundance in unoiled/lightly oiled bays versus moderately/heavily oiled bays that would suggest oiling impacts. Of 12 taxa examined for changes in overall abundance, 7 showed no significant change, 2 (Bald Eagle and Glaucous-winged Gull) increased in abundance, and 3 (Red-necked Grebe, Pelagic Cormorant, and Pigeon Guillemot) decreased in abundance during all three post-spill years. Of the 11 taxa examined for differences in use of oiled versus unoiled habitats, 7 showed no significant response, 1 (Black-legged Kittiwake) exhibited a positive response to oiling, and 3 (Pelagic Cormorant, Black Oystercatcher, and Pigeon Guillemot) exhibited negative responses to initial oiling. We conclude that the impacts of this oil spill on abundance and distribution of birds were most evident in 1989, the year of the spill, and were most pronounced for Pigeon Guillemots. By 1991, signs of recovery were evident for all taxa that showed initial oiling impacts.
3247788| The passerine genus Pomarea (monarchs, Monarchidae) is endemic to eastern Polynesia, where it is distributed on high volcanic islands of the Cook, Society, and Marquesas archipelagos. Recent extinctions of these birds have been documented on several islands, and most of the remaining forms are threatened by introducted rats (Rattus rattus) and habitat loss. We used mitochondrial DNA markers to develop a phylogeny of the entire genus Pomarea, including extinct taxa. This phylogeny was compared to geological data of the eastern Polynesian islands, with emphasis on the Marquesas archipelago where Pomarea has undergone its most extensive diversification. The phylogeny of Pomarea monarchs is consistent with the sequential appearance of the Marquesas islands. We approximated the ages of the lineages using molecular-clock and Bayesian methods that incorporate geological data. Both analyses showed differences of 1 to 2 million years between the ages of most islands and the ages of the nodes. We suggest that these differences are due to a latent period during which the islands were emergent but not successully colonized by Pomarea taxa. Phylogenetic hypotheses suggest that several species are polyphyletic. We outline the taxonomic consequences of our tree as well as implications for the evolution of sexual dimorphism in monarchs. /// El gnero de aves paserinas Pomarea (Monarchidae) es endmico del este de Polinesia, donde se distribuye en las islas volcnicas de gran elevacin de los archipilagos Cook, Society y Marquesas. En varias islas se han documentado extinciones recientes de estas aves y la mayora de las formas remanentes estn amenazadas por ratas introducidas (Rattus rattus) y por la prdida de hbitat. Empleamos marcadores de ADN mitocondrial para determinar la filogenia de todo el gnero Pomarea, incluyendo los taxones extintos. Esta filogenia fue comparada con datos geolgicos de las islas polinsicas del este, poniendo nfasis en el archipilago Marquesas donde Pomarea ha experimentado la diversificacin ms amplia. La filogenia de Pomarea es consistente con la aparicin secuencial de las islas Marquesas. Estimamos las edades de los linajes usando los mtodos de reloj molecular y Bayesiano que incorporan datos geolgicos. Ambos anlisis mostraron diferencias de 1 a 2 millones de aos entre las edades de la mayora de las islas y las edades de los nodos. Sugerimos que estas diferencias se deben a un perodo de latencia durante el cual las islas estuvieron emergidas pero no fueron colonizadas exitosamente por taxones de Pomarea. Las hiptesis filogenticas sugieren que varias especies son polifilticas. Destacamos las consecuencias taxonmicas de nuestro rbol as como las implicancias para la evolucin del dimorfismo sexual en Pomarea. 
4500965| Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) at Hastings Reservation in central coastal California exhibit a bimodal peak in annual breeding activity. One peak occurs in spring during which the majority of breeding takes place, while a second is centered in late August as the new acorn crop matures. These latter nests are mostly initiated in late summer but often do not fledge until at least late September and are thus referred to here as 'fall' nests. Fall nests occur in about one-third of all years, taking place when the acorn crop is large and summer temperatures are relatively high. Fledglings from fall nests constitute 4.3% of the population's total productivity and survive and recruit to the population at levels comparable to spring fledglings. Fall nesting is less likely in groups in which either the male or female breeding adults have undergone a change from the prior year, but groups are otherwise indistinguishable. Ecologically, fall nesting is closely tied to the acorn crop and thus to breeding success in the following, rather than the prior, spring. Among North American terrestrial birds in general, fall breeding has been reported in 16% of all species and is significantly more common among residents and colonially nesting species, in which the frequency exceeds 25%. Furthermore, fall nesting is likely to have been underreported in the literature. Thus, this phenomenon is at least an irregular part of the breeding biology of a substantial fraction of North American birds and should be considered a possibility in population studies of temperate-zone species. This is especially true given that fall nesting is likely to increase as global warming takes place. /// En la Reserva Hastings de la costa central de California, el carpintero Melanerpes formicivorus exhibe un patrn bimodal en su actividad reproductiva anual. Un pico durante el cual ocurre la mayor parte de la actividad reproductiva tiene lugar en la primavera, mientras que un segundo pico se presenta a fines de agosto, cuando las bellotas comienzan a madurar nuevamente. Estos ltimos nidos son iniciados en su mayora a fines del verano y en la mayora de los casos los polluelos no abandonan el nido hasta fines de septiembre, por lo que a estos nidos los llamamos nidos de "otoo". Los nidos de otoo son observados en aproximadamente un tercio de los aos, y se presentan cuando la produccin de bellotas es alta y las temperaturas durante el verano son relativamente altas. Los polluelos que provienen de nidos de otoo constituyen el 4.3% de la productividad total de la poblacin y sobreviven y se incorporan a la poblacin a tasas similares a las de los polluelos de primavera. La probabilidad de que ocurra nidificacin de otoo es menor en grupos en los que el macho o la hembra de una pareja reproductiva han cambiado con respecto al ao anterior, pero en otros aspectos dichos grupos no pueden distinguirse. Ecolgicamente, la nidificacin de otoo se relaciona fuertemente con la produccin de bellotas y por end e con el xito reproductivo del ao siguiente y no con el de la primavera anterior. En general, entre las aves terrestres de Norteamrica, se ha reportado que el 16% de todas las especies exhiben nidificacin de otoo, y que este comportamiento es significativamente ms comn entre las aves residentes y las que nidifican en colonias, grupos en los cuales la frecuencia de nidificacin de otoo excede al 25%. Adems, es probable que la nidificacin de otoo haya sido subestimada en la literatura. Por esta razn, al menos de forma irregular, este fenmeno es parte de la biologa reproductiva de una fraccin importante de las aves de Norteamrica, y debera ser considerado como una posibilidad en los estudios poblacionales de las especies de zonas templadas. Esto es especialmente importante ya que la nidificacin de otoo probablemente aumentar con el calentamiento global. 
10.2307/1367308|The Congo Peafowl has an estimated diploid chromosome number of 76: nine pairs of macrochromosomes and approximately 29 pairs of microchromosomes. As far as the macrochromosomes are concerned, the karyotype closely resembles that of the Blue Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) and differs progressively more from those of guineafowl, domestic chicken, and various other gallinaceous birds. This evidence supports Chapin's view that Afropavo and Pavo are more closely related to each other than to any of the other galliform species. Karyotypic evolution within the order is discussed.
1370747| Southern Royal Albatrosses (Diomedea epomophora) were satellite-tracked from Campbell Island during the incubation period in 1997 and 1999. Their foraging activity was restricted to shelf and shelf-break areas within 1250 km of their breeding site. Foraging activity by 8 of the 14 individuals tracked was concentrated at a zone near the Snares Islands, on the Campbell Plateau. Southern and Northern Royal Albatrosses (D. sanfordi) foraged on average nearer their breeding site than two other species of greater albatrosses (Gibson's [D. gibsoni], and Wandering [D. exulans] Albatrosses) studied during the incubation period. /// Individuos de la especie de albatros Diomedea epomophora fueron seguidos por satlite desde la Isla Campbell durante su perodo de incubacin en dos aos diferentes. Sus actividades de forrajeo estuvieron restringidas a las reas rocosas y los desfiladeros en un permetro de 1250 km alrededor del lugar de anidacin. La actividad de forrajeo de ms de la mitad de los 14 individuos estudiados estuvo concentrada en la zona cercana a la Isla Snares, en la meseta de Campbell. D. epomophora y D. sanfordi forrajeron en promedio ms cerca de sus lugares de anidacin que otras especies de albatros ms grandes (D. gibsoni y D. exulans) estudiadas durante el perodo de incubacin. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120006|Variation in recruitment patterns and dispersal behavior can have important consequences for population viability, genetic structure, and rates of evolutionary change. From 1992 to 2006 we studied a marked population of American Kestrels (
10.2307/1370271|We measured growth of Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) chicks at a colony in Connecticut in 10 successive years, 1987-1996. Data on body mass during the first 3-4 days of life were fitted to a quadratic regression model, yielding three parameters of early growth for each of 1,551 chicks: mass at hatching, linear growth, and quadratic growth. First chicks in each brood (A-chicks) exceeded second chicks (B-chicks) in each of the three growth parameters; A-chicks from broods of two grew faster during the first 3 days than single chicks. The three parameters of early growth depended upon egg mass, hatch order, hatch date, and year, but not on parental age after controlling for effects of the other variables. The linear and quadratic growth parameters were negatively correlated. Subsequent growth and survival of chicks were predicted by all three parameters of early growth. After controlling for effects of early growth, none of the other variables measured (hatch date, egg mass, parental age, hatching asynchrony, female-female pairing, or trapping) contributed significantly to explaining later growth or survival. Year effects were substantial in only 2 of the 10 years of study. Individual pairs were consistent in performance (as indexed by early growth) in successive years. These results suggest that growth and survival of Roseate Tern chicks are determined primarily by parental quality; much of the information about parental quality is expressed by the time the eggs are laid, and most of it is expressed by the time the chicks are three days old.
10.2307/1368394| During a 5-year study of the Dark-rumped Petrel (Pterodroma phaeopygia) in the Galpagos Islands we found that chick growth rate was lower and that fledging was later during the El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) of 1982-1983 than in other years. ENSO chicks attained lower peak mass at a later age than non-ENSO chicks. However, after the prefledging mass recession, chicks of all years fledged at similar size and mass. The longer nestling period and slower chick growth of ENSO chicks probably reflect a decrease in the energy available for growth due to lower ocean productivity and reduced food resources during the ENSO. It is likely that the flexible fledging period allows petrels to raise chicks successfully even during periods of food scarcity. 
10.2307/1369174|A cladistic analysis of 14 binary morphological and nest architecture characters was conducted to investigate the relationship of Neopipo cinnamomea, formerly placed in the manakins (Pipridae), to the Empidonax assemblage of tyrant flycatchers (Tyrannidae; Lanyon 1986, 1988a). The results demonstrate that Neopipo cinnamomea is not a manakin, but a member of the Myiophobus group of tyrannids, which includes Myiophobus, Myiobius (including Terenotriccus erythrurus), Pyrrhomyias, and Hirundinea (Lanyon 1986, 1988a). Detailed illustrations and formal descriptions of the syringeal morphology of Neopipo cinnamomea and related genera are presented. Two alternative, maximally parsimonious phylogenetic hypotheses were identified (length = 20; Consistency Index = 0.70). In both hypotheses, Myiophobus is the sister group to the other five genera, and the monophyly of Myiobius including M. erythrurus is supported. The two alternative hypotheses differ in the hypothesized relationships among Neopipo, Pyrrhomyias and Hirundinea. In the first, Neopipo and Pyrrhomyias constitute a monophyletic group, and Hirundinea is its sister group. In the second, Hirundinea and Pyrrhomyias form a clade with Neopipo as its sister group. These findings strongly confirm that Neopipo is not a member of the Pipridae. It is recommended that Neopipo cinnamomea be referred to as the Cinnamon Tyrant, and that it be included in the Myiophobus group within the Empidonax assemblage of the Tyrannidae. The hypothesis that Neopipo cinnamomea is strikingly convergent with the tyrannid Myiobius erythrurus is falsified. Some similarities in plumage between these species are apparently homologous traits that evolved early in the radiation of the Myiophobus group.
1369832| Recent developments in geographic information systems and their application to conservation biology open doors to exciting new synthetic analyses. Exploration of these possibilities, however, is limited by the quality of information available: most biodiversity data are incomplete and characterized by biased sampling. Inferential procedures that provide robust and reliable predictions of species' geographic distributions thus become critical to biodiversity analyses. In this contribution, models of species' ecological niches are developed using an artificial-intelligence algorithm, and projected onto geography to predict species' distributions. To test the validity of this approach, I used North American Breeding Bird Survey data, with large sample sizes for many species. I omitted randomly selected states from model building, and tested models using the omitted states. For the 34 species tested, all predictions were highly statistically significant (all P < 0.001), indicating excellent predictive ability. This inferential capacity opens doors to many synthetic analyses based on primary point occurrence data. /// Avances recientes en los sistemas de informacin geogrfica y su aplicacin en la biologa de conservacin presentan la posibilidad de analisis nuevos y sintticos. La exploracin de estas posibilidades, de todas formas, se limita por la calidad de informacin disponible: la gran mayoria de datos respecto a la diversidad biolgica son incompletos y sesgados. Por eso, procedimientos de inferencia que proveen predicciones robustas y confiables de distribuciones de especies se hacen importantes para los anlisis de la biodiversidad. En esta contribucin, se desarrollan modelos de los nichos ecolgicos por medio de un algoritmo de inteligencia artificial, y los proyeccionamos en la geografa para predecir las distribuciones geogrficas de especies. Para probar el mtodo, se usan los datos del North American Breeding Bird Survey, con tamaos de muestra grande. Se construyeron modelos con base en 30 estados unidenses seleccionados al azar, y se probaron los modelos con base en los 20 estados restantes. De las 34 especies que se analizaron, todos mostraron un alto grado de significanza estadstica (todos P < 0.001), lo cual indica un alto grado de predictividad. Esta capacidad de inferencia abre la puerta a varios analisis sintticos con base en puntos conocidos de ocurrencia de especies. 
10.2307/1369292|I studied the breeding biology of Harris' Sparrows (Zonotrichia querula) and Gambel's White-crowned Sparrows (Z. leucophrys gambelii) in the forest-tundra ecotone of the Northwest Territories, Canada from 1989 to 1991. Adult sex ratio was 1:1 for Harris' Sparrows, and approximated 1:1 for the smaller number of White-crowned Sparrows captured. Nesting cycles of Harris' Sparrows and White-crowned Sparrows were similar, and appeared to be affected by patterns of snow melt and arthropod abundance. Adults began arriving during the last week in May; most initiated nesting during the second or third week in June, after breeding habitat was at least 60% snow-free. During all years of the study, the peak in fledging occurred just prior to maximum arthropod abundance. Clutch size and egg mass as a percentage of adult mass did not differ between the species. Only female Harris' Sparrows and White-crowned Sparrows incubated eggs and brooded nestlings, but males and females of both species fed young. Mean length of the incubation period for Harris' Sparrows (12.8 days) was shorter than previously reported. Length of the nestling period and patterns of nestling growth and development were very similar in the two species. Breeding densities of White-crowned Sparrows averaged about 30% that of Harris' Sparrows, but egg success (young fledged/eggs laid) and productivity (young fledged/pair) was higher for White-crowned Sparrows. Lower productivity for Harris' Sparrows was caused by predation on eggs and nestlings by arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) and short-tailed weasels (Mustela erminea). Lower breeding density of White-crowned Sparrows probably was due to a lack of suitable breeding habitat, perhaps combined with a lower return rate for adult White-crowned Sparrows during some breeding seasons. I observed little evidence of interspecific competition between the species.
10.2307/1370454|This study examined the persistence of local song dialects of Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) at several locations in the Sierra Nevada Mountains of California. At two of these locations, where sparrows were numerous and occupied large contiguous habitat patches, song structure remained highly consistent over a 26-year period (1970-1996). Small but significant alterations in some aspects of the component syllables appeared to result from accumulation of slight copying errors. The frequency and duration of the introductory whistle changed little while the trill and complex syllables changed significantly. Dialects at these two locations were unaffected by extinction of syllables or invasion by foreign syllables. In contrast, songs recorded from two other areas (fragmented habitat and small populations) exhibited dramatic qualitative changes in overall structure and component syllables. These changes resulted both from loss of syllables and appearance of new syllables evidently introduced from nearby areas. These findings suggest that evolution of this culturally transmitted trait (song) proceeds more rapidly in smaller populations occupying structurally fragmented habitats than in larger populations occupying large contiguous habitat patches.
4096478| Birds with songs having two or more acoustically distinct elements can arrange them either rigidly (i.e., in the same sequence) or flexibly. Flexible song syntax can be achieved either by varying the number of repetitions of elements or by combining elements in different ways. Combinatorial syntax has been documented only in the songs of oscine passerines and in one nonpasserine, but not in the suboscine passerines. Dawn and day songs of a tyrant flycatcher, the Flammulated Attila (Attila flammulatus), were recorded in Costa Rica. Flexible syntax was noted in both dawn and day song. Attilas not only varied the number of repetitions of their song elements but also combined elements in various ways. This appears to be the first reported case of combinatorial song syntax in a suboscine species. /// Las aves canoras que poseen dos o ms elementos acsticos distintivos pueden acomodarlos ya sea de modo rgido (i.e., en la misma secuencia) o de modo flexible. La sintaxis flexible de cantos puede alcanzarse ya sea variando el nmero de repeticiones de los elementos o combinando los elementos de diferentes modos. La sintaxis combinatoria ha sido documentada slo en los cantos de paserinos oscines y en un ave no paserina, pero no en paserinos suboscines. Los cantos del amanecer y diurnos de un tirnido atrapamoscas, Attila flammulatus, fueron registrados en Costa Rica. Encontramos evidencia de sintaxis flexible en cantos del amanecer y diurnos. A. flammulatus no s lo vari el nmero de repeticiones de su canto, sino que tambin combin elementos de varios modos. Este parece ser el primer registro de sintaxis canora combinatoria en una especie suboscine. 
10.2307/1370486|Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) are important consumers and dispersers of the nuts of oaks and other fagaceous trees in eastern North America. Acorns comprise much of the jay diet, especially during the autumn when jays may spend considerable time harvesting and consuming or caching acorns. However, jays do not appear to possess physiological adaptations for countering the protein-binding properties of secondary compounds (tannins) found in acorns. We tested whether simulated overwinter caching would reduce tannin levels in northern red oak (Quercus rubra) and bur oak (Q. macrocarpa) acorns, enabling jays to subsist on a cached acorn diet by circumventing the negative effects of high tannin levels in the acorns. After overwinter storage, acorns in simulated caches did not differ significantly in tannin level from uncached acorns, and jays lost weight rapidly on both cached and uncached acorn diets. Thus, simulated caching did not appear to significantly reduce tannin protein-binding activity of acorns, nor enable jays to better subsist on an all-acorn diet.
10.1525/cond.2011.090111|The amount of supplementary food humans provide to wild animals is increasing, yet the full effects of this provisioning remain unclear. For these effects to be assessed at the levels of both the population and the individual, the degree to which individuals are using this resource must be quantified. Traditional approaches rely on observations of feeding animals and analysis of gut contents and feces, but these have several limitations. Stable-isotope analysis can overcome some of these. If supplementary food items are isotopically distinct from natural ones, the relative contribution of supplementary food to the diet may be quantified accurately. We demonstrate how the isotopic signature of supplementary foods can be manipulated to increase their discrimination from natural food sources and provide an example of the utility of this approach in a supplementary feeding study. We provided supplementary food over a winter, then sampled birds during the following breeding season and analyzed their claws for their isotopic signature to estimate diet choices. The results highlight considerable variation in individuals' use of supplementary food, both within a study site and between different sites. Often the results from supplementation experiments are inconclusive. Even within the same species there can be an effect in one year or location but not in others, so a method for quantifying variation in food uptake could help in interpretation of the results. Stable-isotope analysis allows the effects of experimentally increased food supplies on ecology and behavior to be assessed accurately.
10.2307/1369902|Analysis of 139 stomach contents of the Antarctic Shag (Phalacrocorax bransfieldensis) collected at Nelson Island, Antarctica, showed that fish were the main component in the diet, followed by octopods, gammarids, euphausiids, and polychaetes. The fish Notothenia coriiceps predominated in frequency (56%) and in mass (49%), whereas Harpagifer antarcticus was the most important by number (58%). The sizes of N. coriiceps and H. antarcticus taken by males were significantly larger than those caught by females. This dietary difference is probably due to differential prey selection related to shags' sexual dimorphism, temporal prey availability, and/or different foraging depths/areas. Observations at nests showed that females mainly foraged in the morning, whereas males foraged in the evening. No significant differences were observed between the number of daily foraging trips made by males and females, averaging 1.7 during incubation, 2.0 in early chick-rearing, and 4.6 during the late chick-rearing period. The estimated daily food intakes were 321, 315, and 758 g for females, and 421, 582, and 1,288 g for males during incubation, early and late chick-rearing, respectively.
10.2307/1366997|We tested whether food habits of Bubo owls were more similar among mediterranean-type ecosystems (shrublands in Chile, Spain, and California) as compared to those in a different ecosystem (a grassland in Colorado). To do this, we estimated the diet diversity at both the class and species level of mammalian prey, and the mean weight of mammalian prey in the diet. These owls in all four areas did not differ markedly in their diet composition; they all preyed heavily on rabbits, little on mammals weighing less than 20 g, and somewhat on other vertebrates as well as large invertebrates. They did, however, differ in their diet diversity. At the class level of prey selection, Spanish Bubo were most diverse and Colorado Bubo the least (a three-fold difference). At the mammalian species level, Spanish Bubo were the least diverse and both Chilean and Californian Bubo the most diverse (about 2.6 times higher). These owls also differed markedly in the mean weight of mammal prey in their diet. Spanish Bubo had the highest mean value, whereas California Bubo took mammals on average almost six times smaller. Weights of available categories of mammal prey did not differ among regions. Differences in the weights of prey taken by owls apparently reflect differential abundance of local mammals. The owl assemblages in the four regions are similar in both taxonomic composition and configuration of owl sizes. Sympatric Athene and Tyto owls do not closely parallel the dietary trends seen in Bubo.
10.2307/1369394|Foraging of Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was examined in winter of 1990 and 1991 along the Colorado River in Grand Canyon, Arizona. Eagles acquired food by hunting live prey (86.6%), scavenging (7.7%), and interspecific piracy (5.7%). Most (99.2% of 1,313) foraging attempts were for rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Most foraging attempts occurred in creek habitat where foraging success for live trout was higher than in river habitat, a behavior that presumably increased food intake. Adults exhibited greater foraging success than immatures regardless of attack method, habitat, or prey abundance. Aerial attacks were more successful in creek habitat, and ground attacks were more successful in river habitat. Methods, success, and geographical and hourly patterns of foraging were dependent on prey abundance between years. Eagles modified their foraging strategies to maximize success in a pattern of dynamic optimization under changing conditions.
1370542| We trapped 16 Steppe Eagles (Aquila nipalensis) on migration and on their wintering grounds and fitted them with satellite transmitters, 15 of them in Saudi Arabia and one in South Africa. Seven of the 14 Steppe Eagles trapped in Arabia in autumn did not migrate to Africa but spent the winter in the Arabian Peninsula. One adult migrated to southern Africa. The other six wintered in northeastern Africa, in some cases north of Babel-Mandeb, the straits at the southeastern end of the Red Sea, which they had crossed to reach the African continent. On their spring migration all eagles wintering in Africa migrated via the Suez, Egypt-Eilat, Israel, area at the northern tip of the Red Sea. This loop migration around the Red Sea is probably caused by east winds that blow from October until April, making the return migration difficult via Bab-el-Mandeb. This finding should help to explain the difference in eagle numbers between spring and autumn at such migration bottlenecks as Eilat, Suez, and Bab-el-Mandeb. Unlike eagles coming from Sudan and Ethiopia, eagles wintering in southern Africa must make a considerable detour of over 1200 km to complete this loop. The increase in Steppe Eagles overwintering in Arabia has probably contributed to the decline in the number of birds passing through Eilat in spring during recent years. /// Atrapamos 16 guilas (Aquila nipalensis), incluyendo aves migratorias e invernantes (15 en Arabia Saudita y una en Sud frica) y les colocamos transmisores satelitales. Siete de las 14 guilas atrapadas en Arabia durante el otoo no migraron hacia frica, sino que invernaron en la Pennsula Arbica. Aparte de un adulto que migr hacia el sur de frica, las restantes seis invernaron en frica oriental, en algunos casos al norte de los estrechos al extremo sureste del Mar Rojo (Bab-el-Mandeb) los cuales cruzaron para alcanzar el continente africano. Durante la migracin primaveral, todas las guilas que invernaron en frica migraron va Suez y va el rea de Eilat, alrededor del extremo norte del Mar Rojo. La migracin alrededor de este cuerpo de agua siguiendo una ruta diferente a la invernal, es probablemente causada por el viento que provenie del este entre octubre y abril, dificultando la migracin de retorno va Bab-el-Mandeb en febrero y marzo. Este descubrimiento debe ayudar a explicar la diferencia en los nmeros entre primavera y otoo en sitios como Eilat, Suez y Bab-el-Mandeb, que actan como cuellos de botella. La migracin siguiendo dos rutas diferentes significa un desvo considerable de 1200 km para aquellas guilas que invernan en el sur de frica, pero no para las que vienen desde Sudn y Etiopa. El incremento de aves que inviernan en Arabia probablemente ha contribuido durante los ltimos aos a la disminucin en los nmeros de aves que pasan a travs de Eilat en primavera. 
40072403|We tested how food supplementation affects extraterritorial behavior in the socially monogamous Northern Cardinal (
10.2307/1369754|Despite the interest in blood chemistry for studying ecological and pathological characteristics of birds, sources of variability such as age and captivity are poorly understood, and reference values usually are obtained from adult captive birds. We determined 15 plasma chemical variables for 164 free-living Egyptian Vultures (Neophron percnopterus) of three age groups (nestlings, subadults, and adults), and for 9 captive adults. Free-living subadults and adults exhibited identical plasma chemistry values. Nestlings had significantly higher levels of creatinine, urate, urea, triglycerides, calcium, phosphorus, and alkaline phosphatase (AP) than both free-living subadults and adults, but lower values of glucose and aspartate aminotransferase (AST). Captive adults had significantly higher levels of total protein, albumin, creatinine, urate, cholesterol, calcium, phosphorus, and AST than free-living adults, which we attribute to differences in diet quality and physical activity. We conclude that future studies should consider age as a major source of variability in avian plasma chemistry, and that results obtained from captivity should be used cautiously to interpret plasma chemistry in the study and rehabilitation of wild birds.
10.1525/cond.2010.090092|Surveys are essential for conservation of populations, because they provide estimates of density that may reveal a change in status. Managers therefore depend on analysis of density estimates to evaluate effectiveness of their actions. However, statistical problems associated with trend analysis make declines caused by environmental change difficult to detect. Here we apply piecewise regression to analysis of trends in eight species of Hawaiian passerines to determine if slopes following a year of documented change differ from slopes estimated before the change. Using estimates of densities of forest birds at Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge, we show that estimates of trends based on 21 years of survey data and expressed as a single slope missed an environmental change in year 14. Analysis of residuals indicates that analysis of trends as a single slope violated the model's assumptions, giving a false impression that populations were either stable or increasing and at variance with independent indicators of population decline based on banded birds. In contrast, piecewise regression shows that the slopes of all eight species were positive before the change and negative after it and meets the model's assumptions. The Hawai'i 'A-kepa (
40306173|Secondary-cavity-nesting birds occur widely throughout the world, but little information is available on the benefits of the nest's microclimate for such species, particularly for those using natural cavities. We investigated the influences of microclimate on a threatened secondary-cavity-nesting passerine, the South Island Saddleback (
10.1525/cond.2012.110183|Variation in aggression among birds on different territories has been hypothesized to be influenced by intrinsic factors such as a bird's age, sex, or size and extrinsic factors such as density of neighbors, abundance of food, or territory size. However, little work has examined how and why aggression may vary within a bird's home range. We examined variation in aggressive behaviors of nonbreeding Black-throated Blue Warblers (
1370647| We studied the applicability of Lanchester's laws of combat to explain interspecific dominance in birds. We focused on 10 species of Australian birds in the arid zone of New South Wales that foraged at an established locust trap. Consistent with the "linear law," larger species usually dominated smaller species in one-on-one encounters. We found no support for the "N-square law," which predicted that large numbers of smaller species could dominate larger species when more abundant. Further analysis of the most abundant species revealed that it was less likely to visit the locust trap when larger, more dominant heterospecifics were present. Body size, and not numerical superiority, seems to be an important determinant in interspecific foraging decisions in birds. /// Hemos estudiado la aplicabilidad de las leyes del combate de Lanchester en explicar la dominancia interespecfica en aves. Hemos focalizado este estudio en 10 especies de aves australianas de la zona rida de New South Wales, las cuales se alimentaron en trampas de insectos establecidas para tal fin. Consistente con la "ley lineal," las especies de mayor tamao usualmente dominaron a las especies ms pequeas en los encuentros uno a uno. No encontramos evidencia que apoye la "ley cuadrtica," la cual predice que un gran nmero de especies de pequeo tamao podran dominar a especies de tamao mayor cuando las primeras son ms abundantes. Posteriores anlisis sobre la especie ms abundantes revelaron que la probabilidad de visita a las trampas de insectos es menor cuando individuos heteroespecficos ms grandes y ms dominantes estn presentes. El tamao corporal, y no la superioridad numrica, parece ser un importante factor en las decisiones de forrajeo en las aves. 
1370345| I tested the hypothesis that individual Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) choose nesting microhabitat that reduces their risk of nest predation, using two years of data (n = 196 nests) from two adjacent sites in California coastal scrub, one grazed and one ungrazed. Nesting habitat was compared between nest patches and random locations, and between successful and unsuccessful nests. In both sites, nest patch habitat differed significantly in structure and plant species composition from habitat available within territories. However, of six habitat characteristics associated with nest patch choice, only two were related to nest success, and that relationship differed between the two study sites. Only in the grazed site was the amount of coyote bush (Baccharis pilularis) in the nest patch positively associated with both nest site selection and nest success. In contrast, coyote bush was unrelated to nest site choice and had a nonlinear relationship with nest success in the ungrazed site, such that nests surrounded by intermediate amounts of coyote bush had the lowest probability of success. In the grazed site, nests surrounded by intermediate amounts of rushes (Juncus spp.) were also less successful. Nests built in larger, discrete patches of vegetation were more successful in the ungrazed site, but not in the grazed site. Although the sites differed greatly in the amount of preferred nest microhabitat available, there was no difference between the sites in the overall rate of nest success (23-32%). I suggest that spatial variation in the relationship between nest habitat and nest outcome may favor flexible nest-site preferences in this population. /// Evalu la hiptesis que dice que los individuos de Melospiza melodia eligen nidificar en microhbitats que reducen el riesgo de depredacin de los nidos. Utilic datos de dos aos (n = 196 nidos) provenientes de dos sitios adyacentes, uno pastoreado y otro sin pastoreo, ubicados en matorral costero de California. El hbitat de nidificacin fue comparado entre parches con nidos y localidades aleatorias, y entre nidos exitosos y no exitosos. En ambos sitios el hbitat de los parches con nidos fue significativamente diferente en la estructura y composicin de especies de plantas comparado con el hbitat disponible dentro de los territorios. Sin embargo, de seis caractersticas de hbitat asociadas con la eleccin del parche de nidificacin, slo dos estuvieron relacionadas con el xito de los nidos, y esta relacin difiri entre los sitios estudiados. Slo en los sitios con pastoreo hubo una asociacin positiva entre la cantidad de matas de Baccharis pilularis en los parches y la seleccin de sitios para nidificar y el xito de los nidos. En contraste, B. pilularis no se relacion con la seleccin del lugar de nidificacin en sitios no pastoreados, y tuvo una relacin no lineal con el xito reproductivo, de modo que los nidos rodeados por cantidades intermedias de B. pilularis presentaron la menor probabilidad de xito. En los sitios pastoreados, los nidos rodeados por cantidades intermedias de Juncus spp. tambin fueron los menos exitosos. En sitios sin pastoreo, los nidos construidos en parches de vegetacin grandes y discretos fueron los ms exitosos, pero esto no ocurri en sitios pastoreados. Aunque los sitios fueron sumamente distintos en relacin a la cantidad disponible de microhbitat preferido para nidificar, no presentaron diferencias en la tasa general de xito de los nidos (23-32%). Sugiero que la variacin espacial en la relacin entre el hbitat y el xito de los nidos puede favorecer la flexibilidad en la preferencia de sitios de nidificacin en esta poblacin. 
10.1525/cond.2010.100150|Aging birds often relies on differences in plumage between immatures and adults, and understanding these patterns can improve our ability to discern demographic patterns within populations. We investigated patterns of prebasic molt of the Rusty Blackbird (
10.2307/1369786|We determined the numerical and functional responses of migrant Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) feeding on spawning kokanee salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) at Hauser Reservoir, Montana from 1991-1995. Number of Bald Eagles was positively correlated with the fluctuating number of salmon carcasses during four of five years. Immigration and emigration rates were similar across years and were facilitated by several behavioral and physical characteristics of eagles: group foraging, communal roosting, and keen eyesight. Number of subadult eagles showed closer synchrony with density of salmon carcasses than did adult eagles. Eagles scavenging for salmon exhibited a Type II functional response. Handling times of scavenging eagles remained constant across the range of salmon carcass densities, whereas daily attack rates increased. Functional responses of scavenging eagles differed between age groups; adults exhibited a Type I response, whereas that of subadults could not be characterized. Handling times of scavenging adults were constant, but those of subadults increased with salmon density. Attack rates of scavenging adults increased with salmon carcass density. Consumption rates differed between age groups and among eagles using foraging modes of scavenging, stooping, and pirating, which suggests that eagles viewed live and dead salmon as alternative prey types. Bald Eagle scavenging of kokanee salmon was inversely density dependent.
10.2307/1368678| The biliary bile acid composition of 10 anseriform and three flamingo species was determined using a variety of chromatographic techniques. Some bile samples contained an unusual 23-hydroxylated derivative of chenodeoxycholic acid, (23R)-3, 7,23-trihydroxy-5-cholan-24-oic acid (-phocacholic acid). The proportion of this unusual bile acid correlated highly with the order of evolutionary appearance. -Phocacholic acid was found to constitute a major proportion of biliary bile acids in three flamingo species. The bile acid spectra present in these flamingos were similar to those of several ducks from the subfamily Anatinae; those of the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber) were virtually identical to those of the Nene or Hawaiian Goose (Branta sandvicensis). It is suggested that the common presence of a new biochemical character, -phocacholic acid, in both ducks (Anatinae) and flamingos (Phoenicopteridae) provides evidence for a close evolutionary link between these bird families. 
10.2307/1366777|An exposed ground nest of a Marbled Murrelet discovered on 8 July 1978, on East Amatuli Island, Barren Islands, Alaska, was studied for 51 days. The behavior and activity patterns of the adults throughout incubation and the nestling stage exhibit adaptations to reduce detection of the nest and avoid predators. The highly cryptic chick remains alone on the nest for approximately 27 days and is fed at least once a night by the adults. A tenacious layer of down is apparently preened off by the chick just prior to fledging, allowing the nestling to remain inconspicuous until juvenal plumage has fully developed. Analysis of the chick's growth parameters indicates a relatively high rate of growth as compared with other alcids. This is apparently made possible because the food supply is readily accessible, and in turn reduces the period of the chick's exposure to predators. Fledging behavior in the Marbled Murrelet remains a mystery although evidence indicates that chicks fly to sea and are independent after leaving the nest.
10.2307/1368317|Using starch gel electrophoresis of proteins, we examined variation at 36 genetic loci in nine species (eight genera) of Hawaiian honeycreepers (Class Aves; Family Fringillidae; Subfamily Drepanidinae). Two species of cardueline finches and two emberizids served as outgroup taxa. Twenty-three loci (64%) were either polymorphic within taxa and/or were fixed at alternative alleles among taxa. In seven of nine species, low levels of mean H
4500994| Maternal allocation of resources to eggs and nestlings can potentially have a profound influence on offspring phenotype and fitness. However, it is often unclear how much of the variation in offspring quality is due to maternal or environmental effects. We examined the influence of maternal and environmental effects on egg mass and nestling quality (growth and immune function) in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor). There was no evidence that the allocation of maternal resources to eggs varied with laying order or offspring sex. Thus, there was no evidence of adaptive maternal allocation to eggs in terms of mass. Instead, egg mass in Tree Swallows appeared to be influenced primarily by ambient temperature during egg formation and differences among females. Nonetheless, female Tree Swallows were likely to realize substantial benefits from producing larger eggs because those young were larger at hatching and grew faster. Furthermore, nestlings that grew faster had a stronger immune function at 11 days of age. Our results suggest that the positive relationship between nestling growth and survival may be due, in part, to the effects of an enhanced immune response. /// La asignacin maternal de recursos a los huevos y los polluelos puede tener una fuerte influencia sobre el fenotipo y la adecuacin biolgica de la progenie. Sin embargo, en muchos casos no est claro cunto de la variacin en la calidad de la progenie se debe a un efecto maternal o ambiental. Examinamos la influencia de los efectos maternales y ambientales sobre la masa de los huevos y la calidad de los polluelos en el nido de Tachycineta bicolor. No hubo evidencia de que la asignacin de recursos maternos a los huevos variara con el orden de puesta o el sexo de la progenie. Por lo tanto, no hubo evidencia de una asignacin maternal adaptativa para los huevos en trminos de su masa. Por el contrario, la masa de los huevos en T. bicolor pareci estar afectada principalmente por la temperatura ambiental durante la formacin del huevo y por diferencias entre las hembras. Sin embargo, es probable que las hembras de esta especie fueran capaces de percibir un beneficio substancial al producir huevos mayores, ya que los polluelos provenientes de huevos grandes fueron mayores al eclosionar y tambin crecieron ms rpido. Adems, los polluelos que crecieron ms rpido en el nido tuvieron una mejor funcin inmunolgica a los 11 das de edad. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la relacin positiva entre el crecimiento de los polluelos y su supervivencia pude deberse en parte al efecto de una mejor respuesta inmune. 
10.2307/1368600|The flight songs of Common Yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas) consist of three sections: 1) a series of short duration notes that extend over a wide range of frequencies, 2) a portion of the perch song, and 3) a complex series of notes and phrases that also extend over a wide range of frequencies. The initial and terminal sections provide information about the location of the singer while the inclusion of a portion of the perch song permits individual recognition by conspecifics. During these songs, males flew to a mean height of 5.5 m, enhancing the transmission of the vocal signal. Flight songs were uttered at similar rates throughout the breeding season, with no difference in rates before and after pairing. Most flight songs were performed when males were not interacting with conspecific males, suggesting that such songs play little or no role in territorial defense. Male yellowthroats did perform significantly more flight songs when I was present in their territories, suggesting that these songs are performed in response to the presence of potential predators. Such songs may simultaneously warn mates and direct the attention of the predator to the male.
10.1525/cond.2011.100136|Large concentrations of migrating landbirds in cities have been well documented, but the refueling conditions urban stopover sites provide are almost entirely unknown. We compared plasma triglyceride (indicator of mass gain) and B-OH-butyrate (indicator of mass loss) concentrations in landbirds in three New York City forests to those of conspecifics in two less disturbed, non-urban forests outside the city to evaluate the quality of urban stopover habitats. We quantified diurnal mass gains with regressions of body mass and capture time and measured arthropod biomass in leaf litter to assess food abundance for ground-foraging insectivores. Metabolite concentrations in Ovenbirds (
10.2307/1368760|We studied habitat use by Mountain Quail (Oreortyx pictus) at four sites in northern California. Vegetative cover types (macrohabitats) were used in proportion to availability. Significant microhabitat variables which distinguished used from available microhabitat structure included proximity to water and tall, dense shrubs. Mountain Quail population densities ranged from 9 to 30 birds per 100 ha; populations with greater densities used a larger range of the available microhabitat structure.
10.2307/1369962|The impact of Time Depth Recorders (TDRs) and VHF transmitters, deployed on Royal Penguins (Eudyptes schlegeli) to examine foraging behavior, was assessed during all stages of the breeding season. Models of the devices were attached to penguins and compared to control birds with no devices. There were no impacts from transmitters on probability of return from a foraging trip, foraging trip duration, mass gained, water influx, or body composition, but substantial impacts from the TDRs. Attachment of TDRs (1) reduced the likelihood that penguins would continue the breeding attempt, (2) increased foraging trip duration, (3) increased water influx, and (4) decreased fat levels. The effects varied with sex and stage in the breeding season, which appeared to be related to the energetic demands of the stage in the breeding season. TDRs probably increased drag, affecting swimming speed and foraging success. The differential impact of the devices is most likely related to their cross-sectional area and streamlining, with TDRs being larger and less streamlined than transmitters.
10.2307/1367399|A bird census method is presented that is designed for tall, structurally complex vegetation types, and rugged terrain. With this method the observer counts all birds seen or heard around a station, and estimates the horizontal distance from the station to each bird. Count periods at stations vary according to the avian community and structural complexity of the vegetation. The density of each species is determined by inspecting a histogram of the number of individuals per unit area in concentric bands of predetermined widths about the stations, choosing the band (with outside radius x) where the density begins to decline, and summing the number of individuals counted within the circle of radius x and dividing by the area ( x<sup>2</sup>). Although all observations beyond radius x are rejected with this procedure, coefficients of detectability may be determined for each species using a standard fixed maximum distance.
1370697| The timing and ecological circumstances under which individual songbirds acquire memorized copies of their species-typical songs can vary significantly within a population. Males that hatch later in the breeding season are likely to hear less conspecific song as juveniles than earlier-hatched individuals. In addition, late-hatched males will experience shorter days and decreasing photoperiods during their song acquisition phase, factors known to affect vocal development. We tested the prediction that yearling Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) that hatched earlier the previous season are more advanced in their development of repertoires of local songs than those hatched later. We recorded perched songs from 17 yearling and 20 adult males trapped at two adjacent sites in New York state and found that yearling perched song repertoires were smaller and contained few of the perched song types common to the repertoires of local adults (adult-shared types). As found in previous field studies of cowbirds, yearlings did not alter the content or size of their repertoires during the season. We used underwing juvenal-feather retention as a measure of relative hatching date in a subset of 15 yearlings and found that perched song repertoires of earlier-hatched yearlings contained more local adult-shared types than repertoires of younger, later-hatched birds. We also investigated flight whistles of males from one site and found that only 4 of 10 yearlings produced the flight whistle type typically given by local adults. Evidence linking flight whistle development and the plumage character we used as an indicator of hatching date was inconclusive. /// El tiempo y las circunstancias ecolgicas bajo las cuales las aves canoras adquieren copias memorizadas de los cantos tpicos de su especie pueden variar entre poblaciones. Los machos juveniles que eclosionan tarde en la temporada tienen (1) menor probabilidad de escuchar cantos coespecficos que los individuos que eclosionan antes y (2) experimentarn das ms cortos y una disminucin del fotoperiodo durante la fase de adquisicin del canto, factores que afectan el desarrollo vocal. Probamos que juveniles de Molothrus ater que eclosionaron tempranamente durante la temporada anterior presentan un mayor avance en el desarrollo de repertorio de cantos locales que aquellos que eclosionaron ms tarde. Registramos los cantos de percheo de 17 machos juveniles y de 20 machos adultos capturados en dos sitios adyacentes en el estado de Nueva York. Los repertorios de canto de juveniles fueron menores y contenan slo unos pocos tipos de canto de percheo tpicos de adultos locales (tipos compartidos entre adultos). Los juveniles no cambiaron el contenido ni el tamao del repertorio durante la temporada. Utilizamos la retencin de plumas juveniles bajo el ala como una medida relativa del tiempo de eclosin en un subconjunto de 15 juveniles. Los repertorios de canto de percheo de los juveniles que eclosionaron tempranamente contenan ms tipos adultos que los de aves ms jvenes. En machos de uno de los sitios encontramos que slo 4 de 10 juveniles produjeron el silbido al vuelo tpicamente emitido por los adultos locales. La evidencia que conecta el desarrollo del silbido al vuelo y el indicador del plumaje que utilizamos como indicador del tiempo de eclosin no fue conclusiva. 
10.1525/cond.2013.110082|In western conifer-dominated forests where the abundance of old-growth stands is decreasing, species such as the Brown Creeper (
10.2307/1369966|For many fish-eating birds, two types of samples can be used to determine diets of adults during both breeding and nonbreeding periods: esophagus and gizzard contents of birds collected at feeding sites, and pellets (indigestible residue) cast up at roosts or breeding colonies. We compared these two methods for Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) collected on the North Platte River, Wyoming and nesting at a nearby colony both before and after fingerling trout were stocked in the river. Before stocking, there were no significant differences between pellets and collected birds in percent masses of different fish types in different length classes. After stocking, the two methods yielded similar results for different length classes, but differed in relative proportions of suckers and trout. Patterns in percent occurrence of crayfish in the diet suggest that the time of day adults are collected might affect comparability of the two methods.
10.2307/1370284|We evaluated the consumption of Japanese Quail (Coturnix coturnix) eggs by captive reptiles, birds, and mammals in order to examine potential bias of nest predation experiments, and to determine whether predator identification through egg remains is reliable by the commonly used methods. Because none of the 86 individuals of 22 species of snakes consumed quail eggs in captivity, nest predation may be under-represented in artificial nest experiments. All three groups of predators left all types of egg remains, suggesting that researchers should refrain from classifying nest predators only by egg remains. The presence of scratches on quail eggs could be considered as a potential tool for reducing small-mouthed mammal bias on predation estimates in small-sized eggs in nest predation experiments.
10.2307/1370470|We studied the ranging behavior and habitat selection of radio-tagged Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) during the breeding season in southwestern Idaho. The distribution and numbers of Townsend's ground squirrels (Spermophilus townsendii), the primary prey of Prairie Falcons in our study area, varied in response to drought during the study period. Prairie Falcons ranged over large areas (ca. 300 km
10.2307/1369896|We studied the acoustic frequencies contained in the songs of 44 species of New World doves of eight genera in relation to body mass and habitat structure. On each sonogram, maximum (MAX), minimum (MIN), emphasized frequency (ENF), and frequency bandwidth (BAND = MAX - MIN) were measured. Log-transformed frequencies and body mass data were subjected to a comparative analysis of independent contrast, using Goodwin's (1983) phylogeny. We show the existence of a negative relationship among frequencies and body mass, irrespective of the model of character evolution chosen. Similar results were obtained in raw contrast comparisons among 13 pairs of closely related species. Residuals of variation in song frequencies, after control for the effect of body mass and phylogeny, differed among habitats. In particular, closed habitat species use significantly higher MAX than their more open habitat relatives. This pattern contrasts with the one reported in studies based on community-wide comparisons, which in general do not correct song data for phylogeny and body mass, or include oscine species.
4501005| We provide the first detailed analysis of the vocal behavior of Pacific coast Plain Wrens (Thryothorus modestus modestus). Male Plain Wrens sing two categories of song phrase; one phrase is given as a solo song or duet introduction (I-phrases), while the other is sung primarily during duets (M-phrases). Females sing only one category of song phrase, usually during duets (F-phrases). Both sexes have repertoires of their respective song categories. Plain Wren duets show extreme temporal coordination: duets typically begin with male I-phrases, which are followed by the rapid alternation of female F-phrases and male M-phrases. These patterns are congruent with the solo and duet singing behavior of a sister taxon to the Plain Wren, the Canebrake Wren (Thryothorus modestus zeledoni). Our analyses of Plain Wren songs and duets reveal pronounced differences between males and females and contribute to our understanding of the complex duetting behavior of Thryothorus wrens. /// Presentamos el primer anlisis completo del comportamiento vocal de Thryothorus modestus modestus. Los machos emiten dos categoras de frases de canto; una frase es presentada como un canto solitario o una introductin al dueto (frases I), mientras que la otra slo es emitida durante los duetos (frases M). Las hembras slo emiten una de las categoras de canto, generalmente durante los duetos (frases F). Ambos sexos tienen repertorios propios de sus respectivas categoras de canto. Los duetos de T. m. modestus mostraron un alto grado de coordinacin: los duetos generalmente empiezan con las frases I del macho, las cuales son seguidas por una rpida alternancia de las frases F de las hembras y las frases M de los machos. Estos patrones concuerdan con el comportamiento de canto solitario y en dueto de T. m. zeledoni. Nuestro anlisis de los cantos y duetos de T. m. modestus revela diferencias pronunciadas entre machos y hembras y contribuye al entendimiento del complejo comportamiento de canto en dueto de las aves del gnero Thryothorus. 
10.2307/1369386|We compared patterns of male and female provisioning to nestlings in first and second broods of Eastern Phoebes (Sayornis phoebe). Female Eastern Phoebes made more trips to the nest throughout the nestling cycle. Male and female feeding rates increased with nestling age in parallel until day 11 and decline slightly to day 14 (nestlings leave the nest at approx. day 17). The median total number of feeding trips per nestling did not differ between broods for either sex. We manipulated brood sizes, within the limits of naturally occurring brood sizes, and found that the per-nestling feeding rates of both sexes were unaffected. The increasing food requirements of older or larger broods caused male and female Eastern Phoebes to increase their per-nestling feeding rates in a similar pattern. Because of similarities between the sexes in size and foraging behavior, additional costs of feeding imposed by older or enlarged broods are expected to affect members of the sexes equally.
10.2307/1369899| We tested three predictions of a hypothesis that states Northern Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) select habitat according to the distribution of their primary prey. Our predictions were that Northern Spotted Owls should (1) select larger (> 100 g) species among the assemblage of available prey, (2) select habitats according to the distribution of large prey, and (3) the owl's reproductive success should be influenced by the availability of large prey. We also evaluated the potential energetic value of several prey species. We found that Northern Spotted Owls (n = 11 pairs and 1 single male) in northwestern California differentially selected the dusky-footed woodrat (Neotoma fuscipes), a moderately large sigmodontine rodent (x mass = 232 g). When foraging, owls selected late seral forest edge sites where dusky-footed woodrats were more abundant. Although the relationship between site selection, prey abundance, and the owl's breeding success was not statistically significant, the average abundance of dusky-footed woodrats at sites foraged by breeding owls (x = 11.4 woodrats 100-trap-nights
10.2307/1367950|Wilson's Phalaropes (Phalaropus tricolor) and American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) occur in large numbers at hypersaline and alkaline lakes. Comparing birds from three lakes of different salinity and alkalinity in the Great Basin of western North America, we found no evidence of salt-loading: blood hematocrit, pH, osmolality, and sodium concentration were not elevated; stomach osmolality and sodium concentration were only slightly higher than the body fluids of the birds' hypo-osmotic prey (brine shrimp and brine flies); salt glands were not enlarged and averaged a relatively low percentage of body weight (0.02%). Through a combination of behavioral and anatomical adaptations, phalaropes and avocets evidently are able to rid their prey of most adherent lake water and thereby largely avoid the problems of salt-loading and the ingestion of harmful ions. Both species occupy hypersaline habitats for long periods and probably derive most of their water needs from the body fluids of their prey. Their use of fresh water is sporadic and may not be required for osmoregulatory balance.
4096506| We quantified temporal turnover in the composition of fall migrant landbird communities along the northern coast of the Yucatan Peninsula using Detrended Correspondence Analysis. The presence of winter residents of many migrant species at the site prevented turnover from being complete. However, early and late season transient communities shared few, if any, species in common. Point-count surveys showed greater compositional change than net surveys that included winter residents. The rate of species turnover was generally slow until the middle of the season, when it reached a maximum, and decreased again toward the end of the season as species composition began to converge on that characteristic of the winter community. Within-season patterns of species turnover were similar between net- and point-count surveys and were consistent across years. Species that winter farther south arrived at the site significantly earlier than those wintering at more northern latitudes; however, there was no association with breeding latitude. Additionally, insectivores arrived significantly earlier than omnivores and granivores. The amount of turnover among foliage-gleaning insectivores was less than that for all species in the community, which is inconsistent with the hypothesis that competition during migration has played a role in shaping temporal patterns in species co-occurrence and turnover. For species that co-occur in time during migration, spatial segregation at various scales, as well as differences in foraging behavior and diet, may act to reduce competition at stopover sites. /// Cuantificamos el recambio temporal en la composicin de comunidades de aves terrestres migratorias de otoo a lo largo de la costa norte de la pennsula de Yucatn usando anlisis de correspondencia con efecto de arco corregido. La presencia de residentes invernales de muchas especies migratorias en el sitio evit el recambio completo de especies. Sin embargo, las comunidades transitorias a principios y fines de la estacin compartieron pocas o ninguna especie. Los muestreos de conteos por punto mostraron cambios en la composicin mayores que los muestreos de redes de niebla que incluyeron residentes invernales. La tasa de recambio de especies fue generalmente lenta hasta mediados de la estacin, cuando alcanz un mximo, y disminuy de nuevo hacia finales de la estacin a medida que la composicin de especies comenz a parecerse a la de la comunidad invernal. Los patrones de recambio de especies de cada estacin fueron similares entre los muestreos de redes de niebla y los conteos por punto, y fueron consistentes entre aos. Las especies que invernaron ms al sur llegaron al sitio significativamente ms temprano que aquellas que invernaron en latitudes ms septentrionales; sin embargo, no hubo una asociacin con la latitud en la que criaron las especies. Adems, los insectvoros llegaron significativamente ms temprano que los omnvoros y los granvoros. La cantidad de recambio entre insectvoros que toman sus presas en el follaje fue menor que el recambio de todas las especies de la comunidad consideradas juntas, lo cual no es consistente con la hiptesis de que la competencia durante la migracin ha jugado un papel en modelar los patrones temporales en la presencia conjunta y el recambio de especies. Para las especies cuya presencia coincide en el tiempo durante la migracin, la segregacin espacial a varias escalas, como tambin las diferencias en el comportamiento de forrajeo y en la dieta, pueden operar para reducir la competencia en los sitios de escala. 
10.2307/1368764|Male Ringed Turtle-Doves (Streptopelia risoria) were sequentially mated, two to a single female, using albinism as a genetic marker. We determined that the second male had a higher probability of fertilizing the ova. This advantage is contingent on the female's reproductive stage at the time of pairing. Females which ovulate within two days of encountering the second male lay eggs fathered by the first male, but subsequent eggs are fathered by the second male if he was able to copulate with the female. Thus, in this domesticated columbiform, as has been reported in domesticated Galliformes and Anseriformes, there seems to be a second male precedence in competitive mating situations. This finding is consistent with the utility of reported behavioral paternity guards.
1370699| We used satellite telemetry to study the migration routes and wintering areas of two allopatric breeding populations of Pacific Common Eiders (Somateria mollissima v-nigrum) in Alaska: the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, and the western Beaufort Sea coast. Only 6% (2 of 36) of females wintered within the wintering area of the other breeding population. Both breeding populations wintered in the closest available ice-free habitat, perhaps to minimize migratory distance. Two Beaufort Sea females wintered in areas used by Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta females, implying potential gene flow among breeding areas. Yet, we conclude that these two populations are largely geographically isolated throughout the annual cycle and the environmental factors influencing survival and reproduction likely differ between these groups of birds. Thus, regardless of the potential gene flow among breeding populations, we suggest that birds from these two breeding areas should be managed as separate populations. /// Usamos telemetra satelital para estudiar las rutas de migracin y reas de invernada de dos poblaciones alopticas reproductivas de Somateria mollissima v-nigrum en Alaska: la del Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim, y la de la costa oeste del Mar de Beaufort. Solo el 6% (2 de 36) de las hembras invernaron dentro del rea de invernada de la otra poblacin reproductiva. Las dos poblaciones invernaron en el hbitat libre de hielo ms cercano, tal vez para minimizar la distancia de migracin. Dos hembras del Mar de Beaufort invernaron en reas usadas por hembras del Delta de Yukon-Kuskokwim, implicando un potencial flujo gnico entre las reas de reproduccin. Sin embargo, concluimos que estas dos poblaciones estn aisladas geogrficamente a lo largo del ciclo anual y que los factores ambientales que afectan la supervivencia y reproduccin son probablemente diferentes entre estos grupos de aves. Por lo tanto, a pesar del flujo gnico potencial entre las poblaciones reproductivas, sugerimos que las aves de estas dos reas de reproduccin deben ser manejadas como poblaciones separadas. 
10.2307/1368480| The 1982-83 El Nio/Southern Oscillation was the most severe recorded in the tropical Pacific Ocean. It was a period of low ocean productivity. Many seabirds in the Galapagos Islands, including the Galapagos Penguin (Spheniscus mendiculus) and the Flightless Cormorant (Nannopterum harrisi), did not breed. The cormorant and penguin populations were reduced by 49 and 77%, respectively. The Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber) population size remained unchanged. Between July 1983 and September 1984, the cormorant population recovered whereas the penguin population had not recovered. 
10.2307/1370409|The acoustic adaptation hypothesis (AAH) predicts that vocalizations intended for unambiguous long range communication should possess amplitude modulation (AM) characteristics such that the temporal patterning of amplitude degrades less than alternative patterns during transmission through native habitat. The specific predictions are that open habitat signals should be structured as rapid AM trills, whereas closed habitat signals should be structured as low-rate AM tonal whistles. To investigate the benefit of trill- and whistle-structured signals in open and closed habitats, respectively, a high and low carrier frequency set of four synthetic signals which ranged from rapid AM trills to low rate AM whistles were transmitted 3 hours after sunrise through five different habitat types ranging from closed mature forest to open grassland. Results indicate that, on average, whistles degrade less than trills in both habitats. Trills benefit in open habitats through their tendency to be received with a more consistent quality than whistles. Such differences in transmission consistency among AM patterns are not found in closed habitats. While not degrading less on average, lower frequency signals are received with a more consistent quality than are higher frequency signals of the same AM structure, in both open and closed habitats.
10.1525/cond.2010.090176|Survival is a critical life-history trait, and among cooperative breeders survival may be linked to the evolution of social organization. We used multi-state models in the program MARK to estimate apparent survival in the Splendid Fairy-wren (
40072458|In an effort to provide wildlife habitat and link blocks of forested habitat, coastal forested buffer strips in the Pacific Northwest are managed to mitigate effects of fragmentation that result from timber harvesting adjacent to a coastline. We examined the effect of coastal forest buffer strip width on avian nest survival on Prince of Wales Island, Alaska, in 2003 and 2004. We established nest monitoring plots in two buffer width treatments, narrow (<250 m,
10.2307/1367256|The Mississippi Kite (Ictinia mississippiensis) recently has extended its breeding range into the southwestern United States and was first recorded nesting in Arizona in 1970. Approximately 25 regularly active nesting sites occur in Arizona in riparian forest-scrubland habitat along the tributaries of the Gila River. Nesting habitat consisted of a structurally diverse (patchy) arrangement of cottonwood (Populus fremontii) trees and salt cedar (Tamarix chinensis) understory. Cicadas, the principal prey of the kites studied, were captured frequently (41% of all prey captures) by hawking from cottonwood perches within 150 m of nests. Vegetation patchiness facilitated foraging and accounted for 71% of the variation in reproduction. Increased vegetation diversity in the more traditional breeding areas of the Great Plains and in migration and wintering habitats may have enhanced foraging, reproduction, and survival of kites, and may help to explain the recent population increase. Most nest sites were distributed among four groups. No movement between groups was noted during any one nesting season. Most adult kites attempted to nest, but up to 52% of all nesting attempts failed during courtship and nest-building (44% of all failures), incubation (40%), and nestling (16%) stages. Reproductive success was 0.60 fledglings per nesting attempt, similar to that estimated for kites in the Great Plains. Apparently, reproduction at a nest was not enhanced by close proximity to another active kite nest.
4500980| We studied the intraspecific territorial defense behavior of wintering Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii) in Costa Rica using a randomized playback experiment that exposed male and female birds to recordings of Willow Flycatcher songs and calls, Lesser Ground Cuckoo (Morococcyx erythropygius) vocalizations, and random noise. Flycatchers of both sexes responded most strongly to simulated conspecific territory intrusion, and the agonistic behaviors that we observed were similar to those seen during natural intraspecific encounters in winter. Both males and females engaged in song and aggressive behaviors in defense of territories, and there was no significant difference between the sexes in scored agonistic responses. The similarity between the sexes in intraspecific territorial defense behaviors and aggressiveness may account for both sexes of flycatchers using the same habitats at our study sites in Costa Rica, and wintering females defending territories against males. The Willow Flycatcher, a sexually monomorphic species, differs in this way from a number of sexually dimorphic passerines, in which behaviorally dominant males occur in more optimal winter habitats. /// Estudiamos el comportamiento de defensa territorial intraespecfico de individuos invernantes de la especie Empidonax traillii en Costa Rica usando un experimento aleatorio de reproduccin de vocalizaciones previamente grabadas que expuso a machos y hembras a grabaciones de cantos y llamadas de Empidonax traillii, a vocalizaciones de Morococcyx erythropygius y a ruidos al azar. Los individuos de Empidonax traillii de ambos sexos respondieron ms fuertemente a las intrusiones estimuladas de aves coespecficas, y los comportamientos agonsticos que observamos fueron similares a aquellos observados durante encuentros naturales intraespecficos en el invierno. Tanto los machos como las hembras desplegaron cantos y comportamientos agresivos en defensa de los territorios, y no hubo una diferencia significativa entre los sexos en las respuestas agonsticas. La similitud entre los sexos en los comportamientos de defensa territorial intraespecficos y la agresividad puede explicar el uso de los mismos ambientes en nuestros sitios de estudio en Costa Rica, y la defensa de los territorios ante los machos por parte de hembras invernantes. Empidonax traillii, una especie sexualmente monomrfica, difiere de este modo de otros paserinos con dimorfismo sexual, en los que los machos con comportamiento dominante se encuentran en ambientes mas ptimos durante el invierno. 
4096552|We investigated the occurrence of, and relationships among, snags and cavity-nesting birds in the rapidly urbanizing region around Seattle, Washington in 2001 and 2002. We measured the density of snags in 49 sites (1-km
1370715| We examined nestling growth patterns of the Indian Barn-Owl (Tyto alba stertens) in Tamilnadu, Southern India, with reference to body mass, body length, bill length, bill width, wing length, wingspan, tail length, tarsus length, and middle claw length. Body mass reached an asymptote of 447.0  6.8 g during week 7, which was 10% higher than the adult mass. Then it significantly declined to 437.0  10.9 g at fledging. At the end of week 4, the body length, bill length, bill width, tarsus length, and middle toe length had surpassed 50% of adult sizes. The wingspan and tarsus length reached almost adult size by the time of fledging. A logistic growth curve was found to be a good fit for all the growth variables and explained between 71% (wing length) and 86% (body length) of the variance. /// Examinamos los patrones de crecimiento de polluelos de Tyto alba stertens en Tamilnadu, sudoeste de India, en relacin al peso y el largo del cuerpo, el largo y el ancho del pico, el largo del ala y su envergadura, y el largo de la cola, los tarsos y de la garra mediana. El peso corporal alcanz una asntota de 447.0  6.8 g durante la sptima semana, el cual fue un 10% mayor que el peso de los adultos. Posteriormente, durante el perodo de volantones, el peso corporal disminuy hasta 437.0  10.9 g. Al final de la cuarta semana, el largo del cuerpo, el largo y el ancho del pico, y los largos del tarso y del dedo mediano haban sobrepasado el 50% de los tamaos adultos. La envergadura del ala y el largo del tarso casi alcanzaron tamaos adultos durante el perodo de volantones. Se encontr que una curva de crecimiento logstico se ajust bien a todas las variables de crecimiento y explic un 71% (largo del ala) y un 86% (largo del cuerpo) de la varianza. 
40072429|Multiscale models of nest site selection often ignore cross-scale correlations (correlations between predictor variables at different scales). We reexamined nest site selection of Chestnut-backed Chickadees (
4151028|Monitoring populations of auklets and other crevice-nesting seabirds remains problematic, although numerous methods have been attempted since the mid-1960s. Anecdotal evidence suggests several large auklet colonies have recently decreased in both abundance and extent, concurrently with vegetation encroachment and succession. Quantifying changes in the geographical extent of auklet colonies may be a useful alternative to monitoring population size directly. We propose a standardized method for colony mapping using a randomized systematic grid survey with two components: a simple presence/ absence survey and an auklet evidence density survey. A quantitative auklet evidence density index was derived from the frequency of droppings and feathers. This new method was used to map the colony on St. George Island in the southeastern Bering Sea and results were compared to previous colony mapping efforts. Auklet presence was detected in 62 of 201 grid cells (each grid cell = 2500 m
10.1525/cond.2011.100233|Many species of socially monogamous birds engage in extra-pair copulations, but the extent of extra-pair paternity varies considerably by species. The ecological conditions contributing to interspecific variation in rates of extra-pair paternity remain unclear. We used a combination of single-nucleotide polymorphisms and microsatellites to document extra-pair paternity in the Banded Wren (
10.2307/1370499|I examined the food habits of the Madagascar Buzzard (Buteo brachypterus) in the rain forest of the Masoala Peninsula in northeastern Madagascar from August to December 1991 and from September 1992 to January 1993. I located Madagascar Buzzard nests and recorded prey deliveries from observation blinds that I constructed near each nest. I recorded 318 prey deliveries, including 74 (23.3%) birds, 65 (20.4%) lizards other than chameleons, 35 (11.0%) chameleons, 19 (6.0%) snakes, 14 (4.4%) frogs, 9 (2.8%) arthropods, 7 (2.2%) rats, and 95 (29.9%) unidentified. I was able to assign 123 (38.7%) of the prey deliveries to size classes based on 5-cm body length intervals. This study was the first record of the occurrence of birds in the diet of the Madagascar Buzzard. The results are consistent with other accounts in suggesting that the Madagascar Buzzard is a dietary generalist.
10.1525/cond.2011.100055|We examined chronology and intensity of molt and their relationships to nutrient reserves (lipid and protein) of Lesser Scaup (
10.2307/1367064|We report our observations of birds in the Kimbe Bay area of West New Britain and compare species seen with those collected by the Whitney South Sea Expedition (1932) in the same area. We saw and definitely identified 61 species, including 44 of the 83 species seen or collected previously. Avifaunal changes in the much-disturbed habitats we visited seem to have been minimal, possibly due to the flexibility inherent in the species that were able to colonize New Britain. Birds restricted to undisturbed forest, including many of the endemic species of presumably longer residence on the island, do not appear able to adapt to the disturbed areas and are therefore the vulnerable species when primary forest is destroyed.
10.2307/1367462|Nesting behavior of wild Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata) was studied in 1974 and 1975 near Delta, Manitoba, Canada. Laying and incubation rhythms are described and adaptive aspects of the incubation rhythm discussed. Factors affecting total time spent off the nest per day, recess frequency, and recess duration are investigated with simple correlation and multiple regression analysis. The data support my prediction that in smaller individuals, environmental factors increasingly affect anatid incubation rhythms. Small size and concomitant critical dependence on food resources during incubation have apparently been important in the evolution of the Northern Shoveler's incubation behavior. The relationship of fasting endurance to body size has probably been of fundamental importance in the evolution of avian incubation behavior.
40306184|Birds that nest along reservoir or river shorelines may face fluctuating water levels that threaten nest survival. On Lake Sakakawea of the upper Missouri River, 37 and 70% of Piping Plover (
10.2307/1370233|We determined the factors responsible for the lack of parasitism on Common Grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). We found no evidence of parasitism on the 401 grackle nests we monitored in east-central Illinois. By the time cowbirds began laying eggs, 88.5% of all grackle nests were beyond the point of successful parasitism. Grackles rejected cowbird eggs more frequently during the prelaying stage of the nesting cycle (38.2%) compared to later stages (12.3%). Thirty-three cowbird eggs and nestlings were cross-fostered into grackle nests. Data were collected on 15 cowbird nestlings, of which three fledged. The cross-fostered cowbird eggs that did not hatch appeared to have been incubated ineffectively. These eggs were in clutches that contained four to six eggs, whereas the cowbird eggs that hatched were in clutches of three eggs or less. Grackles also responded more aggressively toward female cowbird models than to Fox Sparrow (Passerella iliaca) models in five of seven response categories. Cowbirds avoid parasitizing grackles even though the opportunity existed. Nest abandonment and infestation of grackle nests with ectoparasitic mites may decrease the suitability of grackles as hosts; however the primary reason for the infrequent cowbird parasitism on grackles appears to be past rejection behavior. Grackles likely rejected cowbird eggs at a higher frequency in the past and as a consequence grackles were avoided by cowbirds. Rejection apparently decreased in the absence of parasitism due to the high degree of intraclutch egg variability exhibited by grackles which would increase the chances of them mistakenly rejecting their own discordant eggs.
10.2307/1369058|Costs of two sexual advertisements, a 20 cm long tail and lek display, were investigated in Jackson's Widowbird (Euplectes jacksoni). Although leks were frequently disturbed by approaching raptors, no predation was recorded. Judging from counts of growth bars, the nuptial tail completes growth in five weeks, and its final length seems to depend equally on growth time and growth rate. A cost of tail formation is inferred from a lower index of body condition (relative body mass) among males in late compared to early stages of tail growth, and from frequent fault bars (translucent bars due to reduced deposition of keratin) in tail feathers. The number and size of faults were larger in the proximal (last formed) half of feathers, and the frequency of faults increased with both feather length and growth rate. A physiological cost of lek attendance and display was indicated by lower condition among full grown courtholders compared to floaters. In two of four seasons, this was also supported by a decline in condition as a function of how long after lek initiation a male was captured. Among all measured males, full grown tail length was positively related to body condition. In a smaller sample of behaviorally observed males this relationship was obscured, while condition instead was negatively related to display rate and lek attendance. Aerodynamic costs of the tail are discussed, as are the possible roles of tail plumes and display as advertisers of male quality.
4122532| Degradation of acoustic signals during transmission presents a challenging selection pressure for animals dependent on vocal communication. Sound transmission properties differ among habitats and may drive the evolution of vocal signals in different directions. Urban habitat is expanding worldwide and an increasing number of species, including many birds, must now communicate around buildings and over concrete. Urban habitats are evolutionarily new, although to some extent they may acoustically resemble rocky habitat such as cliffs and canyons. Neither urban nor these natural habitats have been studied in any detail for the selection pressure they may exert on animal communication. Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) commonly inhabit montane pine forests across North America, but for about 25 years an isolated population has been successfully breeding in an urban environment in southern California. We investigated potentially divergent selection pressures on junco songs, using sound transmission experiments with artificial sound stimuli, in natural forest habitat and in this urban habitat. Transmission properties differed significantly, resulting in tails of reflected sound with gradually declining amplitude in the forest and in multiple discrete echoes in the urban environment. We expected environmental selection in urban habitat to favor shorter songs with higher frequencies and slower trill rates. Despite the presence of relatively short urban songs, there was no significant shortening overall. There were also no differences in trill rates, but we did find a significantly higher minimum frequency in the urban junco population compared to three of four forest populations. Although the pattern of song divergence was not consistent and it is difficult to draw firm conclusions from this single urban population, our transmission results suggest that echoes could be important in shaping urban birdsong. /// La degradacin de las seales acsticas durante su transmisin constituye una presin de seleccin importante para los animales que dependen de la comunicacin vocal. Las propiedades de la transmisin del sonido difieren entre hbitats y pueden conducir la evolucin de seales acsticas en distintas direcciones. El hbitat urbano se encuentra en expansin alrededor del mundo y un creciente nmero de especies, incluyendo muchas aves, se ven obligadas a comunicarse acsticamente entre edificios y sobre el concreto. Los hbitats urbanos son evolutivamente nuevos, aunque hasta cierto punto pueden parecerse acsticamente a hbitats rocosos como los acantilados y caones. Sin embargo, ni los hbitats urbanos ni los naturales han sido estudiados con detalle alguno en cuanto a las presiones de seleccin que pueden ejercer sobre la comunicacin animal. Junco hyemalis es una especie comn en los bosques de pino montanos a lo largo de Norte Amrica, pero durante aproximadamente 25 aos una poblacin aislada se ha reproducido exitosamente en un excepcional entorno urbano en el sur de California. En este estudio, investigamos las presiones de seleccin potencialmente divergentes sobre los cantos de J. hyemalis usando experimentos de transmisin con estmulos sonoros artificiales en hbitats de bosque natural y en el citado hbitat urbano. Las propiedades de transmisin difirieron significativamente: en el bosque los estmulos exhibieron colas graduales de sonidos reflejados, pero en el entorno urbano se encontraron mltiples ecos diferenciados. Esperbamos que la seleccin ambiental en el hbitat urbano favoreciera cantos cortos de frecuencias mayores y velocidades de trino menores. An cuando encontramos cantos urbanos relativamente cortos, en general no hubo un acortamiento significativo. Tampoco hubo diferencias en la velocidad de trino, pero s encontramos una mayor frecuencia mnima en la poblacin urbana con relacin a tres de las cuatro poblaciones de los bosques. Aunque el patrn de divergencia en el canto no fue consistente y es difcil derivar conclusiones contundentes a partir de esta nica poblacin urbana, nuestros resultados sobre la transmisin sugieren que los ecos pueden ser importantes para moldear los cantos de las aves en hbitats urbanos. 
10.2307/1370068|A Eurasian Hobby (Falco subbuteo) population of 13-18 breeding pairs was studied for 6 years from 1987 to 1995 in a 62 km<sup>2</sup> study area located within the seasonal flood zones of the Po River plain in northern Italy and characterized by intensive farmland interspersed with poplar (Populus sp.) plantations. Five percent of breeding attempts (n = 78 over the whole period) failed because of clear cutting of the nest tree and 4% because of human disturbance associated with clear cutting of the nesting woodlot. Fledging success was negatively related to laying date. Year after year, the nests of each pair were found in restricted traditional "nest areas," but not all nest areas were occupied every year, even if suitable woodlots were available within them. Occupation rate of nest areas was positively correlated with breeding success. The nestlings' avian diet was dominated by Swifts (Apus apus) and by Passer spp., accounting for 53 and 25%, respectively of 317 identified prey items. The local Eurasian Hobby population appeared to have adapted fairly well to the intensively managed agroforestry system, with recorded density and productivity in the range reported for other European populations in less intensively cultivated areas. We did not detect any decline in average density and productivity with increasing levels of agricultural change in various European populations. Possible reasons for this species' successful reproduction in modern agricultural landscapes include timing of breeding, tolerance of habitat fragmentation and of human activities near to the nest, tolerance of proximity to neighbors, type of diet, and absence of important predators.
1370126| We comment on the paper of Irons et al. (2000), which evaluated the status of several marine bird taxa in Prince William Sound, Alaska, nine years after the Exxon Valdez oil spill. We discuss concerns about the effects on the study design of inherent differences between the oiled and unoiled areas; about interpretations of results that use inconsistent criteria to define the spatial scales of analysis; and about explanations of underlying causes that are not empirically founded. These comments highlight general difficulties in assessing the effects of large-scale environmental perturbations. It is important to draw conclusions about the effects of such events, but the conclusions must be founded on accuracy in reporting study results, caution in interpreting the results, and adequate consideration of alternative causal explanations for the observed results. /// Comentamos el artculo de Irons et al. (2000), que evalu el estado de varios taxa de aves marinas en Prince William Sound, Alaska, nueve aos despus del derrame de petrleo del Exxon Valdez. Discutimos inquietudes acerca de los efectos del diseo del estudio en relacin a diferencias inherentes entre las reas afectadas y no afectadas por el petrleo; sobre las interpretaciones de los resultados que usan criterios incosistentes para definir las escalas espaciales del anlisis; y sobre explicaciones de causas subyacentes que no estn empricamente fundamentadas. Estos comentarios resaltan las dificultades generales en establecer los efectos de grandes perturbaciones ambientales. Es importante inferir conclusiones sobre los efectos de dichos eventos, pero estas conclusiones deben considerar la presicin de los resultados presentados, ser precavidas al interpretar los resultados, y considerar adecuadamente explicaciones causales alternativas para los resultados observados. 
40306207|Each record of a bird on a survey is the result of three processes: (1) a bird being physically present, (2) this bird making itself available for detection, given that it is present, and (3) the bird being detected given that it has made itself available for detection. We employ a novel approach to examine the variation in availability for detection of the endangered Florida Grasshopper Sparrow (
10.2307/1366782|In Costa Rica, 16 kinds of trees, lianas, and shrubs produce arillate seeds which are eaten by 95 species of birds. These are listed and compared with the birds that feed on the fruiting spikes of Cecropia trees and berries of the melastome Miconia trinervia. In the Valley of El General, on the Pacific slope of southern Costa Rica, arillate seeds and berries are most abundant early in the rainy season, from March to June or July, when most resident birds are nesting and northbound migrants are leaving or passing through. The oil-rich arils are a valuable resource for nesting birds, especially honeycreepers and certain woodpeckers, and they sustain the migrants. Vireos are especially fond of arils, and Sulphur-bellied Flycatchers were most numerous when certain arillate seeds were most abundant. Many species of birds take arils from the same tree or vine without serious competition. However, at certain trees with slowly opening pods, birds vie for the contents while largely neglecting other foods that are readily available.
3247790| Joint nesting, in which more than one pair contributes eggs to a group nest, is rare among cooperatively breeding birds. Early reports of the breeding biology of Taiwan Yuhinas (Yuhina brunneiceps) described them as joint nesters; however, these studies were preliminary and did not involve color-banded individuals. We conducted a 7-year study on the breeding biology of yuhinas. We found that the frequency of joint nesting was extremely high (90% of groups). Breeding groups were composed of two to seven adults (mode = 4). Most of the juveniles (78%) disappeared from our study site the year after they hatched. Only 6% remained in their natal groups; therefore, our study groups appeared to be composed primarily of non-kin. Within each group, there was a linear hierarchy of socially monogamous pairs. Mean reproductive skew index, as determined by microsatellite markers, was low (0.19). Alpha males had longer wings than beta males, whereas females did not show any differences in body size. Breeding group size had no significant effect on nest survival rate. Overall clutch size of the group increased while the average number of eggs laid by each pair decreased with group size. However, average number of fledged young per pair per season was similar for all group sizes. Alpha females were the major contributors during both diurnal (65% of groups) and nocturnal (77%) incubation, although beta females and males also contributed substantially toward incubation. /// La nidificacin grupal, en la cual ms de una pareja contribuye con huevos a un nido grupal, es muy rara entre las aves que presentan cra cooperativa. Estudios anteriores sobre la biologa reproductiva de Yuhina brunneiceps describan a esta especie como con nidificacin grupal; sin embargo, esos estudios eran preliminares y no involucraron individuos marcados con anillos coloreados. Realizamos un estudio de 7 aos de duracin sobre la biologa reproductiva de Y. brunneiceps. Encontramos que la frecuencia de nidificacin grupal fue extremadamente alta (90% de los grupos). Los grupos reproductivos estuvieron compuestos por dos a siete adultos (moda = 4). La mayora de los juveniles (78%) desaparecieron del rea de estudio luego de que eclosionaron. Slo el 6% permaneci en sus grupos natales, por lo tanto los grupos estudiados parecen haber estado compuestos principalmente por individuos no emparentados. Dentro de cada grupo hubo una jerarqua lineal de parejas socialmente mongamas. La desviacin reproductiva promedio, determinada por marcadores micro-satelitales, fue baja (0.19). Los machos alfa presentaron alas ms largas que los machos beta, mientras que las hembras no presentaron diferencias en el tamao corporal. El tamao del grupo reproductivo no tuvo un efecto significativo sobre la tasa de supervivencia de los nidos. En general, el tamao de la nidada del grupo aument mientras que el nmero promedio de huevos puestos por cada pareja disminuy con el tamao del grupo. Sin embargo, el nmero promedio de polluelos emplumados por pareja por poca reproductiva fue similar para todos los tamaos de grupo. Las hembras alfa fueron las que ms contribuyeron durante la incubacin diurna (65% de los grupos) y la nocturna (77%), aunque las hembras y los machos beta tambin contribuyeron substancialmente a la incubacin. 
10.2307/1369953|Leap-frog migration patterns are explicable in terms of the independent optimization of wintering location by different populations, without any need for assumptions concerning asymmetric competition between individuals from different breeding areas. The main factor influencing variation in choice of wintering site is the cost of spring migration in relation to its timing and the route taken. Among Fox Sparrows Passerella iliaca breeding on the west coast of Canada, later breeding northerly populations minimize the cost of spring migration by wintering in California, where food availability improves in early spring, enhancing conditions for premigratory fattening. This improvement occurs too late in the year for early breeding southerly populations which therefore truncate their migration. The southern wintering location of Alaskan populations is explicable if good conditions for premigratory fattening are particularly critical for populations undergoing a trans-oceanic migration.
10.2307/1368908|The density and distribution of territories were determined for 21 species in a 48-ha Sierran subalpine forest study plot by an intensive program of spot-mapping and nest monitoring. About 10% of the total breeding individuals were color-banded and about 75% of the nests of all species were found. Variable circular-plot (VCP) censuses were simultaneously conducted in the same study plot. The VCP method, with minimum effort (48 stations), could describe community parameters reasonably well and could distinguish common from rare species, but could not correctly determine the relative abundances of the common species, could not correctly describe the distribution of territories within the study plot, and produced errors in density estimates for the common species that ranged from -57% to +65%. When the effort was increased threefold (144 stations), the accuracy of the method was improved so that it produced more or less acceptable relative abundances for even the common species and was marginally capable of describing the distribution of territories for 37% of the species, particularly for those species whose distributions were markedly non-uniform, but it still produced errors in density estimates for the common species that ranged from -67% to +96%. Interestingly, VCP total count often performed nearly as well as the calculated VCP density in determining relative abundances. The accuracy of the VCP method may be expected to be poor for species with low population densities, large territory sizes, high mobilities, and ventriloqual vocalizations, and for habitats that are dense and highly three-dimensional.
10.1525/cond.2010.090132|Anthropogenic changes in landscapes can favor generalist species adapted to human settlement, such as the Common Raven (
10.2307/1368430| Recent human settlement in Braslia, Central Brazil, has greatly reduced the extent of native cerrado vegetation. This has favored the Shiny Cowbird, Molothrus bonariensis, which is common in farmland and certain urban sites. Between September and December of 1982 to 1984, we observed cowbird nestlings (n) or fledglings (f) attended by adults of Mimus saturninus (n), Thraupis sayaca (n), Thraupis palmarum (n,f), Cypsnagra hirundiacea (f), Hemithraupis guira (f), and Ammodramus humeralis (n). The Fork-tailed Flycatcher, Tyrannus savana, is rarely parasitized (one of 87 nests) in Braslia, perhaps due to the availability of more suitable hosts. In Argentina, this flycatcher is reported to eject cowbird eggs from the nest; we performed artificial parasitism experiments, which suggest that in Braslia it might accept cowbird eggs placed during incubation. A new host, the White-banded Tanager (Neothraupis fasciata) was found. It is heavily parasitized in disturbed sites, but virtually unparasitized in native cerrado. Cowbird pressure on cerrado birds is expected to increase with continued fragmentation of this habitat. 
10.2307/1368796|We studied bird use of actively grazed and abandoned (2-4 years) pastures during February 1990 in Belize, where pastures often are maintained by repeated mowing. A total of 46 species was observed in the two pasture types, with 15 species detected in grazed and 39 in abandoned. Species richness for both migrants and residents was lower by >50% in grazed pastures. Overall abundance of birds was lower by nearly 70% in grazed pastures compared with the more structurally diverse abandoned pastures (P < 0.001). Based on data from a concurrent study on bird use of forest interior habitat in Belize, 2-4 times more resident species would be expected in nearby broadleaved forests compared to an equal census effort in grazed pastures. In contrast, only about 1.5 times more migrant bird species would be predicted in broadleaved forest interior than in grazed pastures. Foraging guilds were not equally represented between pasture treatments; most notable was an absence of frugivores and nectarivores in grazed pastures maintained by mowing. Our results indicate that retention of some shrubs and overstory trees may reduce the negative effects of pasture development of winter bird populations in Central America.
10.1525/cond.2012.110034|Woodpeckers are particularly susceptible to habitat changes resulting from forest management because of their reliance on trees and snags for nesting and foraging. However, the influence of habitat variables on the reproductive success of woodpeckers has received less attention than it has in other avian taxonomic groups. We estimated nest-survival rates for the White-headed Woodpecker (
1370639| We studied the display behavior and spatial distribution of the Red-headed Manakin (Pipra rubrocapilla, Pipridae) in the Atlantic Forest of the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The average distance between display sites was 72.5  34.1 m (n = 11, range = 34.0-157.0 m). The study area included one 13-site lek and two solitary display sites. All sites of the same lek were within earshot of at least one other site. Males occupied the same display sites between years. The dispersion pattern of males is typical of exploded or dispersed leks. Males were more likely to interact with their nearest neighbor than with males from more distant display sites. Red-headed Manakin lekking behavior is remarkably complex, including 11 display elements, two of them not found in other members of the P. erythrocephala clade, nine vocalizations, and one mechanical sound previously undescribed in the Red-headed Manakin. The males performed both solitary displays and coordinated displays with other males on both their own display sites and on those of the other males. Most of the time, two definitive-plumaged males displayed together. The displays, vocalizations, and mechanical sound recorded in this study contribute to our understanding of the evolution of display behavior in manakins, mainly to the members of the P. erythrocephala clade. /// Estudiamos el despliegue de cortejo y la distribucin espacial de Pipra rubrocapilla (Pipridae) en el rea de la Mata Atlntica del Estado de Ro de Janeiro, Brasil. La distancia promedio entre los lugares de cortejo fue de 72.5  34.1 m (n = 11, rango = 34.0-157.0). El rea de estudio incluy un lek con 13 lugares de cortejo y dos lugares de cortejo aislados. Desde un lugar de cortejo en un lek se poda oir la vocalizacin del vecino ms prximo. Los machos ocuparon los mismos lugares de cortejo durante aos, y presentaron la distribucin espacial tpica de los leks dispersos. Observamos ms interacciones entre los machos de los lugares de cortejo ms prximos. El despliegue de cortejo de P. rubrocapilla es muy complejo, incluyendo 11 elementos de cortejo (dos de ellos no descritos para otras especies del clado P. erythrocephala), nueve vocalizaciones y un sonido mecnico, que hasta el momento, no haba sido registrado para P. rubrocapilla. Los machos ejecutan despliegues de cortejo solitarios y despligues coordinados con otros machos en sus lugares de cortejo y en los de otros machos. La mayora de las veces, el despliegue de cortejo es praticado por dos machos adultos. El despliegue de cortejo, las vocalizaciones y el sonido mecnico registrados en este estudio contribuyen al entendimiento de la evolucin del despliegue de cortejo en los ppridos, principalmente en las especies que conforman el clado de P. erythrocephala. 
10.2307/1367572|The 'Elepaio (Chasiempis sandwichensis) exhibits great variation in plumage color on the Island of Hawai'i. Analysis of specimens from localities throughout the island reveals that the variation is geographically based, and that three subspecies can be distinguished: C. s. bryani, a pale form found at high elevation on the southwestern slopes of Mauna Kea; C. s. ridgwayi, a dark form found in wet windward forests; and C. s. sandwichensis, an intermediate form found in forests of the Kona region. Several zones of primary intergradation and one of possibly secondary intergradation occur, but appear to be narrow. The forms C. s. sclateri of Kaua'i and C. s. gayi of O'ahu exhibit no similar intra-island variation. Variation among the Hawai'i subspecies probably evolved in response to local variation in rainfall, and follows the predictions of Gloger's Rule, but the selective forces involved are obscure.
10.2307/1369988| Many passerine species are highly dichromatic with brightly-colored males and cryptically-colored females. Bright plumage in males is commonly thought to arise as a result of sexual selection by females such that males with bright coloration possess high fitness. However, bright plumage potentially could expose males to increased predation risk. Consistent with this idea, males of many highly dichromatic passerine species do not incubate. I tested whether brightly-colored males avoid incubation to reduce the probability of visual predators locating their nest. This hypothesis predicts greater hatching success for clutches incubated by cryptically-colored individuals than by brightly-colored individuals. The Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) is a common dichromatic species that breeds throughout the eastern U.S. I placed two button-quail (Turnix sp.) eggs in each of 203 simulated cardinal nests. Dull brown cardboard, simulating a female cardinal, was placed over about half of all clutches. Bright red cardboard, simulating a male cardinal, was placed over the other clutches. Nest success was highest for well-concealed nests (87%) and lowest for nests in open habitat (54%). Nests containing red cardboard did not have significantly lower success than nests with brown cardboard, nor did I detect a significant color  vegetation-density interaction. My analysis may have had insufficient power to detect an effect of color on nest success; alternatively, brightly-colored males that do not incubate may achieve benefits unrelated to predation risk. 
40072325|We investigated selection of stopover habitat by juvenile Swainson's Thrushes (Cathams ustulatus) during fall migration at a site along the northern California coast. The study site vegetation consisted mainly of coniferous forest (pine [Pinus] and spruce [Picea]), with interspersed patches of broadleaf forest (willow [Salix] and alder [Alnus]) in poorly drained swales. For 26 birds captured and radio-tracked in 2002 and 2003, the average minimum stopover duration was 8.9  1.0 days. For 20 of these birds with a sufficient number of locations, the average home range size was 1.9  0.3 ha. Thrushes showed no overall pattern of selection for forest type within the study area or for forest type used inside their home range. Fat and lean birds selected forest types similarly within the study area and their home ranges. However, locations occupied by lean birds had twice as much huckleberry (Vaccinium ovatum) shrub cover and were 1.3 times more concealed by vegetation than locations occupied by fat birds. There were 2.5 times more huckleberries at occupied than random locations, and locations occupied by lean birds had 2. 1 times more berries overall than those frequented by fat birds. Fecal analyses confirmed that huckleberries were a commonly consumed food (70% of sampled thrushes), but also revealed that thrushes ate arthropods (87%) and wax myrtle (Myrica californica) bracteoles (43%). The overall lack of forest type selection coupled with differences between fat and lean birds in selection for cover and fruit abundance suggests that fat level may influence microsite selection. /// Investigamos la seleccin de hbitat durante las paradas migratorias por parte de individuos juveniles de Catharus ustulatus durante la migracin de otoo en un sitio a lo largo de la costa del norte de California. La vegetacin en el sitio de estudio consisti principalmente en bosques de conferas (Pinus y Picea) con parches dispersos de bosque latifoliado (Salix) y de Alnus en las zonas con poco drenaje. Para 26 individuos capturados y monitoreados con radio telemetria en 2002 y 2003, la duratin promedio mnima de la parada migratoria fue de 8.9  1.0 das. Para 20 de estas aves con un nmero de localizaciones suficientes, el tamao del mbito de hogar fue de 1.9  0.3 ha. Los individuos de C. ustulatus no presentaron un patrn general de seleccin de algn tipo de bosque en el rea de estudio o por algn tipo de bosque utilizado dentro de su mbito de hogar. Las aves con un contenido de grasa alto o bajo seleccionaron los tipos de bosque de modo similar tanto en el rea de estudio como dentro de sus mbitos de hogar. Sin embargo, los lugares ocupados por las aves magras tuvieron dos veces ms cobertura de arbustos de la especie Vaccinium ovatum y estuvieron 1.3 veces ms cubiertos por la vegetacin que los lugares ocupados por las aves con un mayor contenido de grasa. Hubo 2.5 veces ms arbustos de la especie V. ovatum en los lugares ocupados que en lugares seleccionados al azar, y los lugares ocupados por las aves magras tuvieron 2.1 veces ms de frutos que los lugares frecuentados por las aves con mayor contenido de grasa. Los anlisis fecales confirmaron que los frutos de V. ovatum fueron un alimento consumido con frecuencia (70% de los individuos muestreados), pero tambien revelaron que estas aves se alimentaron de artropodos (87%) y de Myrica californica (43%). La ausencia general de un patrn de seleccin de un tipo de bosque determinado, junto con las diferencias en la seleccion de areas con mayor cobertura y abundancia de frutos entre aves magras y gordas, sugieren que el nivel de grasa corporal podra estar influenciando la seleccion a nivel de micro-sitio.
40306172|Among lek-breeding manakins (Pipridae), courtship repertoires are extremely diverse and have played a central role in establishing phylogenetic relationships within the family. Behaviorally,
10.2307/1368153| Vernal premigratory fat deposition in White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) is induced by increasing day length. This induction can be prevented by castration before photostimulation. We investigated whether steroid hormone replacement during short days abolishes the consequences of castration. The inhibition by ovariectomy of long-day-induced fat deposition was reversed by testosterone, but not by 5-dihydrotestosterone or estradiol-17. The administration of an aromatase inhibitor (ATD) simultaneously with testosterone blocked its effect. It is suggested that low levels of testosterone present in both sexes during the wintering phase are required for vernal premigratory fattening. It appears that testosterone initiates a process that leads to fat deposition after photostimulation, and that this process most likely occurs in the CNS. 
10.2307/1368306|During 1984 and 1985 we censused winter and spring bird communities in chamise, mixed chaparral, and blue-oak woodland habitats at Pinnacles National Monument, California. Both species composition and relative abundance of bird species in chaparral communities were more similar between seasons and years than were those of the oak woodlands. In all seasons species richness and bird numbers were highest in the blue-oak woodland, where the proportion of seasonal residents during the winter was similar to the chaparral but increased to over 37% in the spring. The number of granivorous species remained constant across habitats, but insectivores increased with increasing vegetation complexity. The high degree of variability in the blue-oak bird communities, relative to the chaparral assemblages, is probably due to greater variation in food resource availability between seasons and from year to year.
10.2307/1366993|Sex and age ratios, habitat selection, spatial characteristics, and time budgets of Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) wintering on the Platte River in south central Nebraska were studied from mid-December to early April 1978-1980. The proportion of females and subadults in the population increased substantially from a cold to a mild winter. Radio-tagged Mallards shifted from riverine to canal roost sites during the coldest periods of the winter, seemingly because of more favorable microclimatic conditions there. Subadults ranged over larger areas during winter than did adults. Activity patterns varied with weather conditions, time of day, and habitat type. During cold periods, energetically costly activities such as aggression and courtship decreased at roost sites and the intensity of foraging activities in fields increased. Mallards were more active at riverine than canal sites during both years. High energy requirements and intense competition for scarce food appear to be primary factors limiting the northernmost distribution of Mallards in winter and causing their skewed sex and age ratios.
10.2307/1367341|At least 11 species of birds in northern Bolivia and southern Peru are dead-leaf-searching "specialists": more than 75% of our foraging observations of these species have been of individuals searching for insects in dead, curled leaves suspended above ground in the vegetation. All known specialists of this kind belong to the families Furnariidae and Formicariidae. An additional six species, here called "regular users," exhibit dead-leaf-searching behavior in 25% to 75% of our foraging records. The number of specialists and regular users decreases with rising elevation in the Andes. Specialists disappear from the gradient between 2,000 m and 2,575 m, but regular users occur as high as 3,300 m, near timberline. As many as eight species of dead-leaf-searching specialists coexist in western Amazonia.
3247786| American Dippers concentrate on low-elevation streams during fall and winter in many parts of their range; however the breeding origin relative to the wintering location is poorly understood. Our objectives were to identify seasonal changes in the density and distribution of American Dippers, to classify the migratory behavior of the local population, and to determine the origin of winter migrants within a coastal watershed of British Columbia, Canada. During 1999-2002, we color banded 522 dippers and radio-tagged 14 in the Chilliwack River watershed. Using mark-resighting techniques, we identified peak densities on the main river during early November (9.8  1.4 [SE] birds per stream km), which was nearly 5 times higher than in early July (2.1  0.3 birds per stream km). The watershed's total population size, estimated from November surveys, was 429  64 [SE] dippers in 1999, 682  79 in 2000, 697  123 in 2001, and 550  72 in 2002. The majority (79-90%) of the dipper population seasonally migrated, primarily moving from the main river in fall and winter to the higher-elevation tributaries in spring. The remaining dippers (10-16%) remained resident on the main river year-round. Migrants showed a high degree of winter site fidelity with 67% returning to the same site on the Chilliwack River for 2 or more years. Given the population's defined structure and predicTable seasonal movements, this study has implications for applying American Dipper populations as indicators of water and habitat quality in North American watersheds. /// Cinclus mexicanus se concentra en ros ubicados a baja elevacin en muchas partes de su rango durante el otoo y el invierno; sin embargo, se conoce poco sobre la relacin entre el sitio originario de reproduccin y la localizacin durante el invierno. Nuestros objetivos fueron identificar los cambios estacionales en la densidad y la distribucin de C. mexicanus, clasificar el comportamiento migratorio de la poblacin local y determinar el origen de los migrantes invernales en una cuenca costera de la Columbia Britnica, Canad. Entre 1999 y 2002 anillamos con bandas de color 522 individuos de C. mexicanus y seguimos con radio-telemetra 14 individuos en la cuenca del Ro Chilliwack. Usando tcnicas de marcado y re-avistamiento, identificamos densidades pico en el ro principal durante principios de noviembre (9.8  1.4 [EE] aves por km de ro), lo que fue casi 5 veces ms alto que a principios de julio (2.1  0.3 aves por km de ro). El tamao total de la poblacin de la cuenca, estimado a partir de los censos de noviembre, fue 429  64 [EE] aves en 1999, 682  79 en 2000, 697  123 en 2001 y 550  72 en 2002. La mayora (79-90%) de la poblacin de C. mexicanus migr estacionalmente, movindose principalmente desde el ro principal en el otoo y el invierno a los tributarios de mayor elevacin en la primavera. Los individuos restantes (10-16%) permanecieron como residentes en el ro principal durante todo el ao. Los migrantes mostraron un alto grado de fidelidad a los sitios de invierno, con un 67% de los individuos retornando al mismo sitio en el Ro Chilliwack por 2 aos o ms. Dada la estructura definida de la poblacin y los movimientos estacionales predecibles, este estudio seala que las poblaciones de C. mexicanus pueden ser usadas como indicadores de la calidad del agua y del hbitat en las cuencas de Amrica del Norte. 
10.2307/1368401| We studied the hematology and blood chemistry of wintering Common Cranes (Grus grus). Red cell numbers (2.460  10<sup>6</sup> mm<sup>-3</sup>), hemoglobin content (14.8 g/100 ml), and hematocrit (42.9%) were similar in adult and young birds. Young birds have significantly higher leukocyte numbers (28  10<sup>3</sup> mm<sup>-3</sup>) than adults (22  10<sup>3</sup> mm<sup>-3</sup>). Heterophils are the most abundant white blood cells in adults (55%) whereas young have the same proportion of heterophils and lymphocytes (47%). Plasma protein levels are similar in young and adult birds (4.9 g/100 ml), as is the plasma cholesterol level (200 mg/100 ml). However, adults have higher plasma urea levels and lower uric acid and plasma triglyceride levels than young birds (7.1 vs. 5.5 mg/100 ml, 2.9 vs. 4.4 mg/100 ml, and 81 vs. 110 mg/100 ml, respectively). 
10.1525/cond.2012.110147|Understanding how habitat disturbances such as forest fire affect local extinction and probability of colonizationthe processes that determine site occupancyis critical for developing forest management appropriate to conserving the California Spotted Owl (
1369673|We constructed a regression model for the relationship between stable-hydrogen isotope ratios in immature Cooper's Hawk (Accipiter cooperii) feathers ( D
40072398|We investigate the effects of body mass and breeding habitat use on the timing and location of the fall molt of western Neotropical migrant passerines. Most western migrants that molt within their breeding ranges breed in coniferous forests, while most that move south before molting breed in low elevation broadleaf or open habitats. We show that larger passerines take longer to molt than smaller passerines and that larger species are more likely to migrate south before molting, whereas smaller species are more likely to molt in their breeding ranges, presumably because their molts take less time. To test our habitat results, we surveyed Cassin's Vireos (
10.2307/1366823|Ten types of vocalizations of Purple Martins (Progne subis) from Texas and Arizona were described and compared. Solitary-nesting martins in Arizona did not possess greater vocal repertoire sizes than martins nesting colonially in Texas, which suggests that vocal repertoires are not evolutionarily plastic and have not changed with recent shifts toward coloniality in Texas birds. Some vocalizations differed markedly in structure between these populations, documenting for the first time, geographical vocal variation in the Hirundinidae. A re-examination of subspecific affinities of Purple Martins in Arizona seems warranted on the basis of voice; birds in mountain forests have vocalizations similar to those of birds in deserts, and both differ from the eastern nominate race. Purple Martins possess a greater vocal repertoire than do more colonial swallows, probably because historically they have been largely solitary and lacked acoustical constraints on the evolution of vocal repertoires.
1370678| We evaluated factors that permit species coexistence in an exceptional assemblage of similar raptor species at the Naurzum Zapovednik (a national nature reserve) in north-central Kazakhstan. White-tailed Sea-Eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla), Imperial Eagle (Aquila heliaca), Golden Eagle (A. chrysaetos), and Steppe Eagle (A. nipalensis) all breed at the Zapovednik. Steppe Eagle use of nesting resources was distinct from that of tree-nesting species. We evaluated differences in nest tree and nest habitat characteristics, nest dimensions and positions, and nest spacing among the three forest-dwelling eagle species to distinguish between the effects of inter- and intraspecific resource limitations on species coexistence. Although the different species bred in similar habitat and sometimes reused other species' nests, the dimensions, positions and locations of their nests often differed. These differences did not appear to result from interspecific competition. Nest spacing trends were also species specific; Imperial Eagles generally nested farther from other eagle nests than did Golden Eagles and White-tailed Sea-Eagles. Intraspecific variation in habitat, physical characteristics, and spacing patterns of Imperial Eagle nests was extensive throughout the nature reserve. Although interspecific partitioning of nesting habitat may allow coexistence of ground-nesting Steppe Eagles, interspecific competition did not appear to be a primary determinant of the use of nest habitat, space, or nests by tree-nesting species. Rather, interspecific effects appeared secondary to intraspecific effects in determining coexistence of tree-nesting eagles at this site. /// Evaluamos los factores que permiten la coexistencia de varias especies de aves rapaces similares en Naurzum Zapovednik, una reserva natural nacional, en la regin norcentral de Kazakhstan. Las guilas Haliaeetus albicilla, Aquila heliaca, A. chrysaetos y A. nipalensis se reproducen en Zapovednik. El uso de los recursos de nidificacin por A. nipalensis fue diferente al de las otras especies, las cuales nidifican en rboles. Evaluamos las diferencias en los rboles y caractersticas de los hbitats de nidificacin y las dimensiones, posicin y distribucin de los nidos entre las tres especies de guilas que habitan ambientes boscosos, para distinguir entre los efectos de limitacin por recursos a nivel interespecfico e intraespecfico sobre la coexistencia de estas especies. A pesar de que las diferentes especies se reprodujeron en hbitats similares y a veces reutilizaron los nidos de otras especies, las dimensiones, posiciones y localizaciones de sus nidos difirieron a menudo. Estas diferencias no parecen ser un resultado de competencia interespecfica. Las tendencias de la distribucin en el espacio de los nidos tambin fueron especie-especficas; Las guilas de la especie A. heliaca nidificaron generalmente ms alejadas de nidos de las otras especies que las guilas H. albicilla y A. chrysaetos. La variacin intraespecfica en el hbitat, caractersticas fsicas y patrones de distribucin de A. heliaca fue considerable a travs de la reserva natural. A pesar de que la particin interespecfica del hbitat de nidificacin podra permitir la coexistencia de la especie A. nipalensis (la cual nidifica sobre el suelo), la competencia interespecfica no pareci ser importante en determinar el uso del hbitat de nidificacin, de los nidos o su distribucin para las especies de guilas que nidifican en rboles. En cambio, los efectos interespecficos parecieron ser secundarios con relacin a los efectos intraespecfcos en determinar la coexistencia de las guilas que nidifican en rboles en este sitio. 
10.2307/1368691|The growth of the chicks and pattern of feeds to the chicks were studied for Wandering Albatross pairs (Diomedea exulans) with (1) no previous breeding experience, (2) a limited experience, and (3) an extensive experience. Chicks of inexperienced pairs grew more slowly than those of experienced pairs only during the first part of the fledging period and they had similar dimensions and weights when they left the colony. These differences resulted from different patterns of food delivery to the chicks during the first part of the fledging period; chicks of inexperienced pairs being fed less regularly but with larger meals than those of experienced pairs. The patterns of chick feedings were similar in the two categories during the second part of the fledging period. There was no difference between the feeding patterns for chicks of pairs with either an extensive or a limited experience and small differences in growth appeared only during the first weeks of life of the chicks, probably because of differences in egg size. These results suggest that first-time breeders are slightly less efficient at feeding the chick than experienced birds, but they attain similar skills within a few months, and pairs do not increase their efficiency after a first fledging attempt.
10.2307/1368517|We studied turnover rates in cavity-nesting bird communities during 1983 and 1984 in 34 cottonwood-willow (Populus-Salix) habitat fragments along the North Platte River in southeastern Wyoming. Our principal goal was to determine whether the equilibrium theory of island biogeography was applicable to this system. We tested two hypotheses: (1) equilibrial turnover of cavity-nesting bird species does not occur in disjunct floodplain habitats, and (2) no significant relations exist between absolute turnover rate (ATR) and habitat-fragment features. Paired-t tests and a one-sample sign test corroborated equilibrial turnover for the group of fragments collectively, but examination of the hypothesis at the level of individual fragments did not support the equilibrium model. Simple- and partial-regression coefficients indicated ATR was positively associated with fragment size, the reverse of what equilibrium theory predicts; ATR, however, was negatively related to distance to nearest streamside habitat fragment (analogous to degree of isolation), which is consistent with the theory. ATR was significantly related to five fragment features in a validated multiple regression model: amount of edge/hectare, size of fragment, frequencies of snag classes 4 (56 to 70 cm dbh) and 6 (> 85 cm dbh), and the presence of palustrine wetland bordering each fragment. Short-term dynamics of cavity-nesting bird communities in the system we studied are not completely predictable from the equilibrium theory. Fragment features appear to be the important deterministic forces affecting species richness and dynamics, but stochastic immigration and extinction may also be operative. Application of equilibrium island-biogeographic theory to conserve the system we analyzed is inappropriate. Instead, recommendations that recognize the deterministic influences we have identified should be used.
10.2307/1370148|The role of lipid reserves in winter mortality of the European Barn Owl (Tyto alba) was investigated by comparing its adiposity to that of two sympatric nocturnal raptors, the Tawny Owl (Strix aluco) and the Long-eared Owl (Asio otus), considered as less affected by winter mortality. Adiposity was similar for the three species. Feather insulation, diet, and hunting behavior may explain winter mortality of the Barn Owl.
10.2307/1369608|Ontogeny of two morphologically differentiated populations of Fox Sparrows (Passerella iliaca) was compared to reveal the developmental bases of adult morphological differences. Growth of tarsus, wing, bill, and tail length relative to body mass was compared between the two populations to determine if geographic variation in adults results from different relative growth rates or different relative timings of onset and offset of growth. Differences in adult morphologies between populations result from both changes in allometric growth rates and changes in starting points along the same allometric trajectory. Sexual dimorphism in bill length is mostly the result of differences in growth rate occurring late in ontogeny. Differences between populations greatly exceed those between sexes. Factors underlying growth are complex and probably result from many different genetic and environmental factors.
10.2307/1370181|Least (Aethia pusilla), Crested (A. cristatella), Whiskered (A. pygmaea), and Parakeet Auklets (Cyclorrhynchus psittacula) all engage in aquatic courtship and copulation behavior. We quantified auklet sexual behavior at sea to obtain comparative information related to sexual selection and to evaluate why auklets choose this unusual location for mating. Auklet courtship involved a variety of stereotyped displays. Although similar courtship displays occurred both at the colony on land and at sea, copulation took place only on the sea. Courtship and copulation was frequently disrupted by extrapair males. Extrapair copulation attempts occurred in all species and apparently successful unforced extrapair copulations were observed in Least, Crested, and Whiskered Auklets, suggesting that sperm competition is a feature of their mating systems. Male birds risk water damage to their sperm if they mount their female partners at sea and cause their cloacas to become submerged during insemination. Male auklets, lacking an intromittent organ, achieved cloacal contact without mounting the female so that their cloacas remained unsubmerged. Males positioned themselves behind their partners and rapidly flapped their wings, creating lift to bring their cloacas up against their partner's cloacas, pushing upwards and ensuring insemination occurred away from the sea surface. Possible hypotheses to account for exclusively aquatic copulation include predation and sexual harassment avoidance, and female testing of males, but a definitive explanation for this phenomenon remains elusive.
10.1525/cond.2010.080038|Because investment in eggs is costly for birds, a female's body condition is expected to influence that investment. Moreover, resource availability can fluctuate by year, and older and younger females may acquire or allocate resources differently. Additionally, in multi-brooded species, females may make tradeoffs in investment in first and second clutches. Because environmental conditions often change through the breeding season and early maturity of second broods can increase females' fitness, patterns of females' allocation to each clutch may change with the season. Here, we investigate associations between females' quality (body condition and age) and pre-hatching investment (clutch size, average egg mass per clutch, and total clutch mass) in adults of the Eastern Bluebird (
10.2307/1368434|Breeding densities of secondary (i.e., nonexcavating) cavity-nesting birds are often assumed to be limited by availability of nest sites. We investigated this assumption for species breeding in northern Arizona's ponderosa pine forests. In 1979, we installed nest boxes on three treatment plots that differed in habitat structure and monitored breeding densities of six species through the 1983 breeding season. The effect of nest boxes was evaluated by comparing breeding densities on three treatment plots from 1980 to 1983 with: (1) pretreatment densities (1973 to 1975, 1979), and (2) densities on control plots from 1980 to 1983. We observed variation in the importance of nest-site limitation among treatment plots and species. Overall breeding densities (all species combined) increased significantly on only two treatment plots. Individual species' responses were influenced by habitat structure, and breeding densities of only three species were apparently limited by nest sites before boxes were installed; Violet-green Swallows (Tachycineta thalassina), Pygmy Nuthatches (Sitta pygmaea), and Western Bluebirds (Sialia mexicana). A given species' breeding density in northern Arizona is nest-site limited if it is locally common and reliant on dead trees for nest sites. Availability of food or foraging substrate and territoriality may determine an upper limit to breeding densities if nest sites are in ample supply.
1370370| We used radar to measure daily, monthly, and annual patterns of Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) abundance and movements at 12 major river valleys in the Olympic Peninsula of Washington. Landward movements of murrelets peaked from 75 min to 20 min before sunrise, followed by a seaward exodus from 20 min before sunrise to 65 min after sunrise. This general pattern of a landward movement followed by a seaward exodus varied little, but the timing of the seaward exodus gradually became later from May to July. Within a morning, numbers of landward radar targets averaged twice the numbers of seaward targets, and morning counts were approximately five times evening counts. Species identification error rates were lower for landward radar counts than for seaward counts. Radar counts varied through the season, with numbers increasing from May to July, then dropping in August. Seaward counts were more variable than landward counts. There was wide overlap among months in the amount of daily variation in both landward and seaward counts. Radar appears to be a powerful, cost-effective, and non-intrusive tool that can establish an index of abundance for murrelets at specific inland breeding areas. /// Medimos los patrones diarios, mensuales y anuales de abundancia y movimiento de Brachyramphus marmoratus utilizando radares en 12 importantes valles fluviales en la Pennsula Olmpica en Washington. El movimiento tierra adentro de B. marmoratus fue mximo entre 75 min y 20 min antes de la salida del sol, seguido por un xodo en direccin de la costa entre 20 min antes y 65 min despus de la salida del sol. Este patrn general, caracterizado por movimientos tierra adentro seguidos por un xodo en direccin de la costa, present escasa variacin, sin embargo el movimiento en direccin de la costa fue ocurriendo gradualmente ms tarde entre mayo y julio. Cada maana, el nmero de conteos en el radar correspondientes a movimientos tierra adentro duplicaron en promedio los movimientos en direccin de la costa, y los conteos matutinos fueron cinco veces mayores que los conteos vespertinos. Las tasas de error de identificacin de especies fueron menores para los conteos de radar de movimientos tierra adentro que para los de movimientos en direccin de la costa. Las lecturas de radar variaron a travs de las estaciones, incrementando entre mayo y julio y decreciendo en agosto. Los conteos de movimientos en direccin de la costa fueron ms variables que los conteos de movimientos tierra adentro. A lo largo de los meses, la variacin diaria present una gran superposicin tanto para conteos de movimientos tierra adentro como para los movimientos en direccin de la costa. El radar aparece como una herramienta poderosa, costo-efectiva y no intrusiva para establecer un ndice de abundancia para B. marmoratus en reas especficas de reproduccin tierra adentro. 
10.2307/1368155|Two hypotheses concerning the relative importance of different acoustic features in species-song recognition were examined. The invariant-features hypothesis predicted that a feature's accuracy in song recognition is inversely proportional to its intraspecific variability, as expressed by the coefficient of variation. The sound-environment hypothesis assumes that both variability and a feature's central tendency relative to other species in the local acoustic environment determine a feature's importance in species-song recognition. These hypotheses were compared in an acoustic analysis of 14 features of songs of two focal species, the Field Sparrow (Spizella pusilla) and Chipping Sparrow (S. passerina), and 11 other species found in open habitats in the eastern United States. In both focal species, maximal note frequency was one of the two least-variable features within conspecific song, and the most accurate single feature in classifying songs in a canonical discriminant analysis. In neither species was a feature's accuracy in classifying songs correlated with its relative variability within conspecific song. These results, in conjunction with recent experimental studies, contradict the common assumption in the literature that invariant features provide the most important song recognition cues.
10.2307/1368312|Reverse mounting (females mounting males) is common in many grebe species. Of 328 mountings observed and filmed in Silvery Grebes (Podiceps occipitalis), 27% were by the female. Similarly, for Hooded Grebes (P. gallardoi) observed during the same period, 15% of 95 mountings were reversed. For both species, reverse mounting was significantly more common early in the season. Reverse mounting in Silvery Grebes also was more frequently associated with pre- and postmounting courtship display activity at the nest than were copulations. We conclude that reverse mounting is not aberrant behavior in grebes, but constitutes a regular and integral part of their courtship behavior. Since reverse mounting also appears to occur in a wide diversity of other monomorphic bird species, we suggest that using mounting behavior to determine sex in these species may be unreliable.
10.2307/1368571|Using starch gel electrophoresis we analyzed variation at 29 genetic loci in 32 taxa (20 species in four genera) of Vireonidae. Two species of Corvidae and two species of Emberizidae (Parulinae) served as outgroups. Twenty-three loci (83%) were either polymorphic or were fixed at alternative alleles among taxa. Cladistic analyses were weakly informative of relationships. In contrast, UPGMA phenograms and Wagner trees, generated from Rogers' genetic distances, provided hypotheses of relationship at the species level for the following taxa: (1) Vireo huttonii and V. carmioli appear to be sister taxa; (2) V. leucophrys is a species distinct from V. gilvus (3) V. solitarius and V. flavifrons are not necessarily sister taxa; (4) V. "chivi" solimoensis and V. "chivi" chivi are allied to V. olivaceus, not with V. flavoviridis. Traditional Vireo consists of four clusters of species: (1) an eye-ringed group (griseus, solitarius, flavifrons, vicinior, huttoni, and carmioli); (2) the eye-lined olivaceus group (olivaceus and flavoviridis); (3) an eye-lined gilvus group (gilvus, leucophrys, and philadelphicus); and (4) "Vireo" bellii. Each cluster is genetically distinct at a level comparable to that which distinguishes Cyclarhis and Vireolanius from other vireonids. Traditional Hylophilus appears to be either polyphyletic or paraphyletic. The six species examined fell into two groups: hypoxanthus, decurtatus, aurantiifrons, and ochraceiceps cluster in the vicinity of eye-ringed Vireo; poicilotis and thoracicus form a remote sister clade to all other vireonids. The exceptionally large interspecific genetic distances reported for Vireo are an artifact resulting from taxonomic undersplitting. Subgenera for Vireo, and separate subfamilies for peppershrikes, shrike-vireos, and vireos and greenlets, respectively, cannot be justified by the genetic evidence. Vireonids are more closely related to corvids than to paruline warblers.
4500959|To better understand migratory connectivity between breeding and non-breeding populations, we analyzed mercury (Hg) and stable isotope signatures of nitrogen (
10.2307/1368681|The hormonal response to a spectrum of intrasexual social stimuli was studied in captive Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). Males were housed in individual cages in one of four conditions: (1) in a semicircle with other males (= visual + vocal stimuli), (2) in acoustic chambers with visual access to a devocalized companion (= visual stimuli only), (3) in chambers in which a tutor tape was played daily (= vocal stimuli only), and (4) in acoustic chambers with no other input (neither visual nor social stimuli). Blood samples were taken at 2-week intervals throughout the spring and early summer and assayed for testosterone. The results indicate that the greatest increase in testosterone was in the birds receiving visual plus vocal stimuli and in those receiving only visual stimuli; males receiving only vocal stimuli had a muted endocrine response, and those receiving no social stimulation exhibited the briefest response. The relatively small response to vocal stimulation is consistent with the absence of a behavioral response to simulated territorial intrusions (i.e., song playbacks) that has been shown in previous studies in male cowbirds.
10.2307/1370478| We documented the distribution of Neotropical migrant species wintering in four habitats in the Sierra Madre Oriental mountains in northeastern Mexico. We used point-count surveys and mist nets to determine the presence and relative abundance of migrant species in tropical semi-deciduous forest (300 m elevation), cloud forest (1,100 m elevation), humid oak-pine forest (1,200 m elevation), and dry pine-oak forest (1,800 m elevation) in the El Cielo Biosphere Reserve in Tamaulipas, Mexico. Thirty-two species of migrants were observed during the winters of 1993-1995; migrant species represented from 17% to 33% of the species detected in point counts and captured in mist nets in each habitat. Nearly half of the migrant species in El Cielo were habitat specialists; other species were found in a variety of habitats across their wintering ranges. Ruby-crowned Kinglet (Regulus calendula), Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla), Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea), and Hermit Thrush (Catharus guttatus) were the most frequently detected migrant species in El Cielo. Northern Mexico is an important wintering area for a diverse group of migrant species. Habitats at higher elevations with temperate-like forests and at lower elevations with tropical forests had the greatest species richness and supported the highest abundance of migrant species. /// Registramos la distribucin de las especies de aves migratorias neotropicales invernando en cuatro hbitats de la cordillera de la Sierra Madre Oriental en el noreste de Mxico. Se utilizaron los mtodos de puntos de conteo y redes de captura para determinar la presencia y abundancia relativa de las especies migratorias en bosque tropical subcaducifolio (300 msnm), bosque mesfilo de montaa (1100 msnm), bosque hmedo encinopino de (1,200 msnm) y en bosque seco de pino-encino (1,800 msnm), dendro de la reserva de la biosfera El Cielo en Tamaulipas, Mxico. Treinta y dos especies de aves migratorias se observaron durante los inviernos de 1993 a 1995; las especies migratorias representaron entre el 17 y 33% del total de las especies detectadas en los puntos de conteo y capturadas en las redes en cada tipo de hbitat. Cerca de la mitad de las especies migratorias presentes en El Cielo son espec'ficas a un tipo de hbitat mientras que otras se encontraron en vrios hbitats a lo largo de su distribucin invernal. Las especies migratorias ms frecuentemente detectadas fueron el Reyezuelo Sencillo (Regulus calendula), el Chipe de Wilson (Wilsonia pusilla), Perlita Grisilla (Polioptila caerulea) y el Zorzalito Colirrufo (Catharus guttatus). La regin norte de Mxico es un rea importante durante el invierno para un grupo diverso de especies migratorias. Los hbitats que tuvieron la mayor riqueza de especies y soportan la ms alta abundancia de especies migratorias fueron los bosques templados y las selvas tropicales. 
1370707| Using a supplemental feeding experiment, we investigated the ability of adult Horned Puffins to decrease provisioning effort in response to reduced nutritional requirements of chicks. We found no difference between experimental and control groups in parental provisioning before supplementary feeding was initiated. After receiving supplemental food for seven days, experimental chicks grew faster, gained more mass and received 87% less food from their parents than did control chicks. These results demonstrate that Horned Puffin parents can decrease food provisioning in response to a decrease in their chick nutritional requirements. /// Usando un experimento de suplementacin alimenticia, investigamos la habilidad de adultos de Fratercula corniculata de disminuir el esfuerzo de aprovisionamiento en respuesta a una reduccin en la demanda nutricional de los pichones. No encontramos diferencias entre grupos experimentales y control en el aprovisionamiento parental antes que la suplementacin de alimento fuera iniciada. Luego de que los pichones recibieron comida adicional durante siete das, los pichones experimentales crecieron ms rpido, ganaron ms peso y recibieron 87% menos alimento de sus padres que los pichones control. Estos resultados demuestran que los padres de F. corniculata pueden disminuir el aprovisionamiento en respuesta a una reduccin en los requerimientos nutricionales de sus pichones. 
3247770| Many studies have demonstrated that birds behave differently in areas with different levels of human disturbance. Studies frequently characterize sites as having an overall level of human disturbance, and compare how birds respond at sites with high and low levels of disturbance. Doing so assumes that disturbance has a fairly constant effect on animals throughout a site. We measured the distance at which individual Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) moved away from an approaching observer along a stretch of beach on both sides of the Santa Monica Pier, a heavily visited tourist attraction in southern California. We found that these flight initiation distances decreased in areas where more people visited the beach, and specifically in a small area near the pier. We found that flight initiation distance changed very rapidly within a short distance from the pier. Our results indicate that anthropogenic features may leave a "behavioral footprint." Identifying the scale of such behavioral footprints should be an important goal of studies that seek to reduce anthropogenic impacts on birds. /// Muchos estudios han demostrado que las aves se comportan de modo diferente en reas con distintos niveles de disturbio humano. Los estudios frecuentemente caracterizan sitios con base en su nivel general de disturbio y comparan las respuestas de las aves entre lugares con niveles altos y bajos de disturbio. Al hacer esto, se supone que el disturbio tiene un efecto aproximadamente constante sobre los animates a travs de un sitio dado. En este estudio medimos la distancia a la cual gaviotas de la especie Larus occidentalis se desplazaron alejndose de un observador a lo largo de un tramo de playa en ambos lados del embarcadero de Santa Monica, una atraccin turstica muy visitada ubicada en el sur de California. Encontramos que las distancias al observador a las que las aves iniciaron el vuelo disminuyeron en reas donde ms personas visitaron la playa, y especficamente en un rea cercana al embarcadero. Las distancias a las que las gaviotas iniciaron el vuelo cambiaron muy rpidamente en una distancia muy corta desde el puerto, hasta alcanzar una distancia constante. Nuestros resultados indican que las estructuras antropognicas podrian dejar una "huella comportamental". Identificar la escala de dichas huellas debera ser un objetivo importante de estudios que tengan como fin reducir el impacto antrpico sobre las aves. 
1370528| Loss of connectivity among forest fragments of south-temperate rainforest in Chile reduced mating success of male Chucao Tapaculos (Scelorchilus rubecula) and the probability of juvenile dispersal. Of 159 chicks banded in 2000 and 2001, 19 of 91 (21%) in poorly connected fragments stayed in their natal fragments, overall, compared to only 2 of 68 (3%) in well-connected fragments. The frequency of unmated males was consistently higher in poorly connected fragments (12 of 65 males, or 18%) compared to well-connected fragments (1 of 82 males, or 1%). Chucao populations could be maintained most readily in this increasingly agricultural matrix by a network of woodlots with dense understory, connected by wooded corridors. /// La prdida de conectividad entre fragmentos de bosque de la selva lluviosa austral templada en Chile redujo el xito de apareamiento de los machos y la probabilidad de dispersin de los juveniles en el tapaculo Scelorchilus rubecula. De 159 pichones anillados en 2000 y 2001, 19 de 91 (21%) individuos presentes en fragmentos poco conectados permanecieron en sus fragmentos natales, comparado con slo 2 de 68 (3%) individuos que permanecieron en fragmentos bien conectados. La frecuencia de machos sin pareja fue consistentemente mayor en fragmentos poco conectados (12 de 65 machos, 18%) comparada con fragmentos bien conectados (1 de 82 machos, 1%). Las poblaciones de S. rubecula podran ser mantenidas de modo ms eficiente en esta matriz creciente de agricultura mediante una red de bosques con sotobosque denso, conectados por corredores de bosque. 
10.2307/1368495|Over five seasons, I censused an estuarine colony of White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) in South Carolina using aerial counts before and after tidal washovers. I found 61% of all nesting starts were abandoned during these tides; since not all washovers were monitored, this figure is conservative. An analysis of tide gauge data indicates these destructive tides were frequent, and predictable across seasons. This colony is growing in size, and there is circumstantial evidence of breeding site fidelity despite the washovers. This is surprising, since White Ibises are known for frequent colony shifts. Although egg predation at this colony was comparatively low, and clutch size comparatively high, breeders still suffered far more total nest loss than at other coastal colonies. I suggest White Ibises do not use nesting failure, or predictability of failure as cues for abandonment, but rely on environmental cues such as local food availability and frequency of nest-site predation instead.
90008042|The publication of a U.S. estimate of birdwindow collisions by Loss et al. is an example of the somewhat contentious approach of using extrapolations to obtain large-scale estimates from small-scale studies. We review the approach by Loss et al. and other authors who have published papers on human-induced avian mortality and describe the drawbacks and advantages to publishing what could be considered imperfect science. The main drawback is the inherent and somewhat unquantifiable bias of using small-scale studies to scale up to a national estimate. The direct benefits include development of new methodologies for creating the estimates, an explicit treatment of known biases with acknowledged uncertainty in the final estimate, and the novel results. Other overarching benefits are that these types of papers are catalysts for improving all aspects of the science of estimates and for policies that must respond to the new information.
1369817| Wintering Prairie Warblers (Dendroica discolor) were studied in pine forest, desert thorn scrub, and desert wash habitats of the Sierra de Bahoruco, Dominican Republic from October-April 1996-1998 and January-February 1999. We used mist netting, color banding, and extensive resighting of color-banded birds to quantify habitat-specific demographies, site fidelity, and fitness indices. Males predominated early in the season in pine habitat while females predominated in the desert. Sex ratios were more equal through the drier months of late winter although females continued to be more frequent in the desert. Adult birds predominated throughout all habitats and time periods. Nonterritorial wanderers were far more common in desert habitats than in pine forest, and females predominated among these wanderers. Site persistence was moderately high, but variable between habitats and time periods, and was significantly lower in the drier months in thorn scrub than it was in the desert wash or pine forest. Annual return rates were generally high and did not vary significantly among years. Birds showed significant declines in pectoral-muscle-mass scores in both of the desert habitats but not in the pine forest. Data presented here emphasize the importance of dry-season events and habitat heterogeneity in the winter ecology of migratory birds. /// En los meses de octubre a abril de 1996 a 1998 y enero y febrero de 1999, investigamos a Dendroica discolor en el bosque de pino, en los matorrales del desierto y en el arroyo seco de desierto en la Sierra de Bahoruco, Repblica Dominicana. Para llevar a cabo esto, se utilizaron redes ornitolgicas y anillos colorados. Se realiz una revisin extensiva de las aves anilladas para cuantificar la demografa en los tres hbitats, la fidelidad al territorio invernal, y los ndices de aptitud ("fitness"). Al comenzar el invierno, los machos predominaron en el bosque de pino mientras que las hembras lo hicieron en el desierto. La proporcin entre los machos y las hembras mantuvo una mayor igualidad entre los sexos en los meses ms secos del invierno, aunque hay que considerar que las hembras predominaban en el desierto. Se observ que las aves adultas predominaban en los tres hbitats durante todo el perodo investigado. Las aves sin territorio eran ms comunes en el desierto y eran mayormente hembras. La fidelidad al lugar fue moderadamente alta pero variable entre los hbitats y los perodos y fue significativamente ms baja en los meses secos en los matorrales del desierto que en los arroyos secos y los bosques de pino. La tasa anual de retorno de esta especie fue generalmente alta y no vari significativamente entre aos. La masa de los msculos pectorales baj significativamente en las aves que se encontraban en los matorrales del desierto y en el arroyo seco pero no en los bosques de pino. Los datos mencionados aqu acentan la importancia de eventos que ocurren en la poca seca del perodo invernal y de la heterogenidad del hbitat en la ecologa invernal de las aves migratorias. 
10.2307/1369564|We investigated variations in egg production of captive hen Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus in relation to food intake, weight change, and parasitism by the nematode Trichostrongylus tenuis. Experimental infections of T. tenuis were used to mimic the relative effects on laying grouse of an adult worm burden, the resumed development of over-wintered worm larvae or no infection. Variations in egg production were significantly related to hen food intake and weight loss during laying but not to food intake or weight gained in the five weeks before laying. This supports the Thomas (1988) hypothesis that grouse produce eggs from 'income' rather than 'capital' reserves. There were no significant differences in the total weight, number or rate of eggs produced by hens from different treatment groups. However, hens infected with worms developing at the onset of laying lost significantly more weight while laying and, at the end of egg laying, were 13% lighter than other birds. In wild birds this could affect the quality of incubation and maternal care of chicks. The precise timing of the resumed synchronous development of previously arrested T. tenuis larvae may be a critical determinant of how this parasite affects egg production by wild Red Grouse.
10.2307/1369949|Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) that bred together in the spring had significantly higher winter association indices than birds that did not breed together, indicating winter pairing. Most members of winter flocks were paired, and pair members had the same within-sex dominance rank in nine out of ten cases. These results confirm the findings of other studies of wintering chickadees. We report the first quantified example of mate protection in a North American parid. From observations of chickadees visiting feeders in winter, we identified three benefits for females paired to alpha males that are consistent with the hypothesis of mate protection: (1) these females were subject to less intense aggression from their mate, compared with that between other dominants and subordinates. When accompanied by their mate, these females experienced (2) less frequent aggression and (3) maintained a higher feeding rate than other subordinates in the presence of dominant flock members. Chickadees commonly form a "pair-hierarchy" within a flock. We suggest that mate protection has a role in the formation of pair-hierarchies, and that mate protection is the main cause of the overlap in survival rates between the sexes. These results, and this view, suggest that a wintering female's pair bond status may have a greater effect on her fitness than her dominance rank.
10.2307/1368599|In addition to their simple trilled territorial song, normally sung while perched, male Swamp Sparrows (Melospiza georgiana) more rarely also sing a flight song with complex phonology and syntax. The typical trilled songs of Swamp Sparrows all can be broken down into only six simple constituent note types. Because these same note types, and no others, are found throughout the Swamp Sparrow's range, they are thought to represent a "species-universal phonology." Acoustic analysis of flight song notes from one population reveals no overlap at all with the phonology of trilled songs. One flight song note type ("B") appears similar to a trilled song note type ("VI"), but detailed analyses reveal these note types to be distinct. Thus, Swamp Sparrows appear to use independent phonologies in the production of two different types of song. These two phonologies may entail different mechanisms for processes of song acquisition and control.
10.2307/1370459|We describe copulation activity by Bearded Vultures (Gypaetus barbatus) at nesting sites in the Pyrenees, northern Spain, between 1993 and 1995. Pairs copulated for an average period of 67 days (range: 50-90) prior to egg laying. Seventy-five percent of attempts ended in successful copulation. Pairs displayed a daily bimodal pattern of copulation, with copulations occurring most frequently in the evening. Low levels of opportunities for extra-pair encounters (0.02 intrusions hr
90008469|Effective conservation of sympatric avian populations depends on unbiased estimates of population size, distribution, and habitat use. For populations of Yellow-billed Loons (
10.2307/1366878|The Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis), a brood parasite, has recently expanded its range from South America to Puerto Rico via the Lesser Antilles. This species is a host generalist and, on reaching Puerto Rico, encountered avian species with no history of social parasitism. In mangrove habitat study areas, 42% of the resident non-raptorial land bird species were parasitized. Some species were heavily parasitized; e.g., Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia)-76% of nests parasitized, Black-whiskered Vireo (Vireo altiloquus)-82%, Puerto Rican Flycatcher (Myiarchus antillarum)-85%, Yellow-shouldered Blackbird (Agelaius xanthomus)-95%, Troupial (Icterus icterus)-100%, Black-cowled Oriole (I. dominicensis)-100%. Others suffered low rates of parasitism (2 to 17% of nests examined); e.g., Gray Kingbird (Tyrannus dominicensis), Red-legged Thrush (Turdus plumbeus), Bronze Mannikin (Lonchura cucullata), Northern Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos), Greater Antillean Grackle (Quiscalus niger). Cowbird parasitism affected hosts by (1) depressing nest success an average of 41% below non-parasitized nests, and (2) reducing host productivity. Parasitized host nests hatched 12% fewer eggs and fledged 67% fewer of their own chicks than non-parasitized pairs.
90008524|The decline of Barn Owls (
10.2307/1368205|The extent of molt of primary feathers was studied in relation to the status and to the duration of the interval between breeding attempts in the Wandering Albatross (Diomedea exulans). The replacement of primaries lasts for more than one season, birds showing a typical wave molt with one to three foci occurring on a wing. Molt never occurs on the breeding grounds. In breeding as in nonbreeding individuals, males invariably renew more feathers than females. Breeding males and females renewed each year an average of 8.3 and 7.3 primaries per wing, respectively. The extent of primary molt of breeders was directly related to the duration of the interbreeding period in females but not in males. Males and females breeding for the first time had fewer new feathers than did experienced birds. When they visited the nesting colonies, immature birds had fewer new feathers than did breeding birds of the same sex. In immature birds, the extent of molt was related to the body condition (mass) of males but not of females. The extent of molt was inversely related to mass gain from one season to the next in nonbreeding males. These results suggest that molting in the Wandering Albatross is probably an important constraint that could compete with breeding, particularly in females. Possible reasons for sex-specific differences in molt extent are discussed.
40072402|Birds in which both sexes produce complex song are more common in the tropics than in the temperate north, where typically only males sing. Yet surprisingly little is known about female song characteristics in most tropical species. Here we present a comparison of female and male singing behaviors in the Streak-backed Oriole (
40072401|Double brooding is the initiation of a second clutch of eggs after successfully raising young from the first clutch. Migratory birds that nest in temperate North America are often single-brooded, but there is widespread intra- and interspecific variation. Tree Swallows (
1370390| We investigated survivorship, movements, and sociality of Common Ravens (Corvus corax) exploiting concentrated food resources at a landfill in Greenland. From 1992-1995 we banded 383 ravens: 365 were captured at the landfill and 18 were banded in nearby nests. Thirty-nine ravens were recovered, most by shooting (87%). Mean number of days survived post-banding (494  97) did not differ among age groups, but a higher proportion of juveniles was recovered. Ravens migrated west and south to the coast during winter. No difference existed among age groups in mean distance between locations of banding and recovery (151  31 km). Number of ravens congregating at the landfill declined during the study, coinciding with a decrease in the local human population. Harsh winter climate, limited ice-free land, and abundant human refuse influenced raven use of the wilderness landscape by facilitating the formation of large, nomadic foraging groups. /// Investigamos la supervivencia, movimientos, y socializacin de Corvus corax que utilizan fuentes de alimentos concentradas en un basurero en Groenlandia. Entre 1992 y 1995 anillamos 383 cuervos: 365 fueron capturados en el basurero y 18 fueron anillados en nidos de las proximidades. Treinta y nueve cuervos fueron recuperados, la mayora por disparos de arma de fuego (87%). El nmero promedio de das (494  97) que los cuervos sobrevivieron luego de ser anillados no vari entre grupos de diferente edad, pero recobramos una mayor proporcin de juveniles. Durante el invierno los cuervos migraron en direccin oeste y sur hacia la costa. No existieron diferencias entre grupos de diferentes edades en la distancia media entre las localidades de anillado y recuperacin (151  31 km). El nmero de cuervos congregados en el basurero declin durante el estudio, coincidiendo con un decremento en la poblacin humana local. La adversidad del clima invernal, la limitada extensin de tierra no cubierta por hielo, y la abundancia de desechos humanos influyeron el uso del paisaje silvestre por parte de los cuervos, facilitando la formacin de grupos de forrajeo grandes y nmades. 
1370653| Dietary samples from nestling Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) in northwestern Minnesota were compared to invertebrate availability as measured by aerial tow nets. The majority of the biomass in the nestlings' diet was adult insects with larval stages of aquatic origin, while absolute numbers of insects of both aquatic and terrestrial origin were similar. Orders of invertebrates in the diet and available were similar in number but not in biomass. Diet showed little variation by time of day, date of sampling or the age of the nestling. The mean number of odonates in the nestling Tree Swallows' diet increased exponentially as the percentage of open water and open water + cattail marsh increased within a 400-m foraging radius. /// Se compararon muestras dietarias de pichones de la golondrina Tachycineta bicolor tomadas en el noroeste de Minnesota con la disponibilidad de invertebrados medida con redes areas. La mayor parte de la biomasa en la dieta de los pichones correspondi a insectos adultos con estados larvales de origen acutico, mientras que los nmeros absolutos de insectos de origen acutico y no acutico fueron similares. Los rdenes de invertebrados presentes en la dieta y disponibles en el ambiente fueron similares en nmeros pero no en biomasa. La dieta mostr poca variacin entre horas del da, fechas de muestreo o edad de los pichones. El nmero promedio de odonatos en la dieta de los pichones de T. bicolor aument exponencialmente a medida que se increment el porcentaje de agua abierta y de agua abierta + pantanos de espadaas dentro de un radio de forrajeo de 400 m. 
10.2307/1368717|Data were collected on postnuptial molt by frequent measurements of primaries during eight consecutive seasons on Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha of known sex, age, and reproductive history. Molt onset, marked by the shedding of P1, had a mean date that varied interannually by 17 days for both sexes and occurred earlier in males than in females in all years of the study. Molt duration of males regularly exceeded that of females and was greater by 2.7 days when all data were considered. Males were consistently trapped more often than females throughout the 7-week period of molt with captures being fewest for both sexes during Weeks 3-5. Duration of molt was unaffected by age in either sex but onset of molt occurred earlier in yearling males (many of which were unpaired) than in older males. Molt duration was fairly constant in both sexes regardless of molt onset but it was notably longer in the earliest group of males to begin molt and shorter in the latest group of females. Ovaries were invariably regressed with small follicles at onset of molt although brood patches ranged from being regressed to fully functional. Testis and cloacal protuberance lengths were variable at molt onset, tending to be about midrange in size but ranging from near seasonal maxima to minima. Cessation of reproduction (indexed by laying date of a pair's last egg of the season) was followed more closely by onset of molt as the season progressed. Eventually the interval between these functions decreased by about 30 days in females and 40 days in males. In birds that nested latest in the season, molt sometimes began when they still had eggs. In fact, induction of molt was found to occur at all stages of the nesting cycle, leading at times to extensive overlapping of molting and reproductive activities. At least some overlap occurred in about three-fourths of the birds because that fraction went into molt before fledglings achieved independence. Comparisons were made of molt and body mass dynamics and of reproductive success in two cohorts, one that began molting with nestlings or earlier (Group 1) and the other with fledglings or later (Group 2). Responses of males and females were dissimilar. Neither molt onset date nor its duration were different in males of the two groups although some individuals in Group 1 did show a marked delay in shedding P2 and P3. Group 1 males were heavier through molt than Group 2 males. In contrast, molt onset date was also unaffected in females but its duration was about 3 days longer in Group 1. The P2-P3 shedding delay occurred consistently in Group 1 females resulting in a decrease in the number of primaries growing simultaneously during the second week of molt. Later, after fledglings were independent, molt was accelerated in Group 1 females, not because shedding intervals decreased, but because growth rates increased in P3-P9. Unlike males, body masses of females tended to be lower in members of Group 1 until the final weeks of molt. We attribute these sexual differences to changes in energy demands caused by altered parental roles. Group 1 males provided less care than those in Group 2. Thus, temporal overlap of molt with reproductive functions was minimized in Group 1 males and maximized in their mates. This shift to uniparental care resulted in a decrease in the proportion of nests fledging young and in the number of chicks fledged per nest by Group 1 birds. We suggest that this situation exists because migratory birds summering at high altitude try to breed for as long as possible but they must also complete their molt and become able fliers before the advent of winter conditions. The interactions of these opposing forces has led to selection for a control mechanism that schedules molt independently from the termination of reproduction.
1369678| The pattern of food resource availability and use by Lilac-crowned Parrots (Amazona finschi) was evaluated in tropical dry forest of the Reserva de la Biosfera Chamela-Cuixmala, western Mexico. Monthly fruiting phenology transects were conducted throughout the year in deciduous and semi-deciduous forest to determine temporal and spatial variability in resource abundance. Resource use by parrots was evaluated through observations of diet and habitat use. There was significant temporal and spatial variability in food resource abundance, with semi-deciduous forest providing greater food resources for parrots during the dry season, whereas food resource abundance increased in deciduous forest during the rainy season. The critical period of food resource scarcity occurred during May-June at the end of the long dry season. Lilac-crowned Parrots were pre-dispersal seed predators, and exhibited high flexibility in diet, incorporating dietary switching, as well as niche-breadth contraction and expansion, which corresponded with temporal variations in food resource availability. There was low overlap in parrot diets between seasons, with parrots exhibiting a narrow food nichebreadth during the late dry season when resource availability declined. Parrots also demonstrated spatial variation in habitat use, corresponding to fluctuations in the availability of food resources in different habitats. This flexibility in foraging enables parrots to closely track and exploit seed resources which exhibit high temporal and spatial variability in abundance. /// En este trabajo se evalu el patrn en la disponibilidad de recursos y su uso por el loro corona lila (Amazona finschi) en el bosque tropical seco de la Reserva de la Biosfera Chamela-Cuixmala, oeste de Mxico. A lo largo de un ao, se realizaron transectos mensuales para documentar la fenologa de fructificacin en el bosque tropical caducifolio y subcaducifolio, y para determinar la variabilidad temporal y espacial en la abundancia de recursos. El uso de los recursos por los loros fue evaluado por observaciones de la dieta y el uso del hbitat. Se encontr una variabilidad temporal y espacial significativa en la abundancia de recursos alimenticios; el bosque subcaducifolio suministr mayores recursos alimenticios para los loros durante la poca seca, mientras la abundancia de recursos alimenticios aument en el bosque caducifolio durante la poca de lluvias. El periodo crtico de escasez de recursos alimenticios ocurri en mayo-junio, al final de la larga poca seca. Los loros corona lila son depredadores de semillas, y exhibieron una alta flexibilidad de dieta, incluyendo cambios en la dieta, adems de la contraccin y expansin de la amplitud del nicho, lo que correspondi con las variaciones temporales en la disponibilidad de recursos alimenticios. La dieta de los loros present poca similitud entre estaciones; los loros exhibieron poca amplitud del nicho al final de la poca seca, cuando la disponibilidad de recursos declin. Los loros tambin mostraron variacin espacial en uso del hbitat, correspondiendo a las fluctuaciones en la disponibilidad de recursos alimenticios entre hbitats. Esta flexibilidad en el forrajeo permite a los loros de seguir y aprovechar recursos como las semillas, las cuales exhiben una alta variabilidad temporal y espacial en su abundancia. 
10.2307/1369326|We documented the occurrence of heterochrony for morphological and behavioral characters in two species of Hispaniolan Palm-Tanager. Phaenicophilus palmarum is age-dimorphic in morphology and foraging behavior with 55% (n = 126) of specimens classified as juveniles. Juveniles differed from adults of their own species in five of eight foraging variables, average flight distance during a foraging bout, foraging height, use of broadleaf instead of pine substrates, and the presence of a gray instead of black crown. Phaenicophilus poliocephalus have gray crowns similar to those of P. palmarum juveniles and do not differ significantly from them for any of the eight foraging variables measured, choice of substrate, or average flight distance. They do differ from adult P. palmarum for four of eight foraging variables, average flight distance, and use of substrates. Phaenicophilus poliocephalus lacks a significant age-dimorphism in all behavioral and morphological characters measured. We classified only 15% (n = 66) of the specimens examined as juveniles based on morphology. This species tends to form groups of four to six individuals in the non-breeding season, in contrast to P. palmarum occurring singly or in pairs. Phaenicophilus poliocephalus is also smaller than adult P. palmarum for seven of 11 size-related features. We assessed the degree of gene flow across the narrow hybrid zone we documented and concluded, based on morphological variance analysis, that there was little introgression. The resemblance of P. poliocephalus to juvenile P. palmarum in general morphology and behavior, their smaller body size, and the increased tendency to form groups is consistent with a paedomorphic derivation of P. poliocephalus from P. palmarum.
10.2307/1369859|We monitored the survival of 152 radio-tagged Prairie Falcon (Falco mexicanus) nestlings from 37 broods through the fledging-dependence period in southwestern Idaho during 1992 and 1993. Mortality rates were high but consistent between years, 28% in 1992 and 34% in 1993, despite a significant decline in the primary prey of falcons in 1993. Predation by Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus) was the primary cause of mortality. To a lesser extent, mortality was influenced by the presence of hematophagous ectoparasites (Haematosiphon inodorus) in aeries. We were unable to find or show an effect of parental behavior (territory attendance and prey delivery rates) during the late brood-rearing period, hatching date, brood size or fledging mass on mortality. The frequency of predation in our study may have negated or diminished the influences of these factors. Survivorship was lower during the fledging-dependence period than during the incubation or nestling periods.
10.2307/1370235|We investigated the effects of brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) on Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) reproductive success to test the hypothesis that cowbird hosts of similar size and incubation period to cowbirds are able to raise their own offspring when parasitized. During the breeding seasons of 1993-1995, we collected data on the frequency and intensity of cowbird parasitism, the effect of cowbird parasitism on cardinal reproductive success, and the defensive response of cardinals to parasitism. Of the 115 cardinal nests, 48% were parasitized, and the mean number of cowbird eggs per parasitized nest was 1.3. Nest survival, as calculated by the Mayfield analysis, was higher in parasitized than unparasitized nests across all stages of the nesting cycle. Although female cowbirds removed significantly more cardinal eggs per parasitized than unparasitized nest, parasitized cardinals did not suffer losses attributable to reduced hatching success or nestling competition. The growth rates of cardinals in parasitized and unparasitized nests did not differ, nor did that of cardinals and cowbirds in the same nest. We detected cardinal defensive response at only three (5%) parasitized nests. These data suggest that this population of cardinals pays only a slight cost in being parasitized by cowbirds, which may explain the lack of defensive response.
40306186|The dawn chorus is a collective behavior involving a network of birds signaling at the same time. Two hypotheses can explain the mechanisms of dawn singing. The "condition-dependent hypothesis" states that the dawn chorus consists of a "broadcast network" in which the signal is given in all directions but is not dependent on the singer's neighbors' chorus. The song output is condition dependent and can thus be limited by the amount of food to which a signaler has access to in its territory. On the other hand, the "social-dynamic hypothesis" states that during the chorus the birds are constantly interacting with their neighbors. Under this scenario, the dawn chorus consists of an "interactive network" and the song output is not dependent on the condition of the signaler but on the interaction with the neighbors. To determine which scenario best explains the mechanisms of the dawn chorus in the Black-capped Chickadee (
10.2307/1369426| The Rufous-collared Sparrow, Zonotrichia capensis, is widely distributed in neotropical America and shows extensive variation in its learned song. In northwestern Argentina it exhibits song dialects which map closely onto the distribution of natural vegetation assemblages. To date, there is no evidence of a correlation between genetic (allozyme) variation and dialects. However, recent genetic structuring produced through philopatry and assortative mating by dialect is difficult to demonstrate statistically with such protein-encoding nuclear genes. Therefore, we assayed variation in more rapidly evolving mitochondrial DNA along a 50 km transect, which spans three dialect boundaries between four adjacent habitat-types (from 1,800 m to 3,000 m), using restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. This revealed exceptional diversity (41 clones from 42 individuals), a level comparable with DNA-fingerprinting, and higher than reported in any passerine over such a small area to date. The degree of nucleotide divergence between the two main clusters of mtDNA haplotypes implies a separation time in excess of one million years. The mtDNA variability is not related to song dialects; rather it is interpreted as a reflection of secondary introgression between two well-differentiated subspecies whose ranges abut in this region. 
1370746| Models predict that predators of cryptic prey should have a moderate or low search rate because at high search rates only a small proportion of cryptic prey is detected. Predators of conspicuous prey should have fast search rates because their prey are easily detectable. For a large difference in conspicuousness, this prediction is not affected by differences in prey characteristics. Substrate-gleaning birds rely upon searching for cryptic and largely immobile prey. Painted Redstarts (Myioborus pictus) use flashy pivoting body movements of a spread tail and wings to flush prey into the air, making the prey highly conspicuous. The birds then chase the prey in aerial pursuits (flush-pursue foraging). Using field observations of birds in the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona, and using literature I show that differences in search rates between flush-pursue foragers and insectivorous substrate-gleaning foragers are consistent with the theoretical predictions. /// Modelos tericos predicen que depredadores especializados en presas crpticas deberan presentar bajas tasas de bsqueda ya que si sus tasas de bsqueda son altas, la proporcin de presas que detectaran sera pequea. Por el contrario, los depredadores de presas conspicuas deberan presentar tasas de bsqueda altas debido a la fcil deteccin de sus presas. Cuando la diferencia en el grado de conspicuidad entre presas es grande, la prediccion anterior no se ve afectada por diferencias en otras caractersticas de las mismas. Las aves que buscan insectos explorando cuidadosamente el sustrato tienden a concentrarse en presas crpticas y mayormente inmviles. Myioborus pictus utiliza movimientos corporales repentinos con la cola y las alas extendidas para espantar presas potenciales convirtindolas as en presas altamente conspicuas. Una vez espantadas las presas, M. pictus las persigue e intenta capturarlas al vuelo (tcnica de forrajeo "espantar-perseguir"). En este artculo utilizo observaciones de campo realizadas en las montaas Chiricahua (Arizona) y citas de la literatura para demostrar que las diferencias en las tasas de bsqueda de aves que utilizan la estrategia de espantar-perseguir y las de aquellas que buscan insectos mediante la exploracin cuidadosa del sustrato son consistentes con las predicciones tericas. 
10.1525/cond.2011.110033|The Montserrat Oriole (
10.1525/cond.2012.110159|Group foraging is common among wading birds, and the reasons why individuals forage in groups are of theoretical and practical interest. Although aggregations of foraging wading birds usually form within patches of high-quality habitat, individual wading birds can sometimes increase success by foraging near others. We investigated the hypothesis that individuals derive a benefit from foraging in groups separate from benefits due to habitat quality. We measured the capture rates of birds foraging solitarily and in groups at foraging sites and paired unused sites and used generalized linear mixed models and information-theoretic model selection to access the evidence that individuals increase their foraging success when foraging in groups. The capture rate of Great Egrets (
1370520| We examined diets of six insectivorous bird species (n = 202 individuals) from two vegetation zones along the Colorado River in Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona, 1994. All bird species consumed similar quantities of caterpillars and beetles, but use of other prey taxa varied. Non-native leafhoppers (Opsius stactagolus) specific to non-native tamarisk (Tamarix chinensis) substantially augmented Lucy's Warbler (Vermivora luciae) diets (49%), while ants comprised 82% of Yellow-breasted Chat (Icteria virens) diets. Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) diets were composed of 45% aquatic midges. All bird species consumed the non-native leafhopper specific to tamarisk. Comparison of bird diets with availability of arthropod prey from aquatic and terrestrial origins showed terrestrial insects comprised 91% of all avian diets compared to 9% of prey from aquatic origin. Seasonal shifts in arthropod prey occurred in diets of three bird species, although no seasonal shifts were detected in arthropods sampled in vegetation indicating that at least three bird species were not selecting prey in proportion to its abundance. All bird species had higher prey overlap with arthropods collected in the native, mesquite-acacia vegetation zone which contained higher arthropod diversity and better prey items (i.e., Lepidoptera). Lucy's Warbler and Yellow Warbler consumed high proportions of prey items found in greatest abundance in the tamarisk-dominated vegetation zone that has been established since the construction of Glen Canyon Dam. These species appeared to exhibit ecological plasticity in response to an anthropogenic increase in prey resources. /// Examinamos la dieta de seis especies de aves insectvoras (n = 202 individuos) de dos zonas de vegetacin a lo largo del Ro Colorado en el Parque Nacional del Gran Caon, Arizona, en 1994. Todas las especies de aves consumieron cantidades similares de orugas y escarabajos, pero el uso de otras presas fue variable. Los Cicadellidae (Homptera) exticos (Opsius stactagolus) especficos del tamarisco extico (Tamarix chinensis) comprendieron una parte sustancial de la dieta de Vermivora luciae (49%), mientras que las hormigas representaron el 82% de la dieta de Icteria virens. La dieta de Dendroica petechia incluy un 45% de dpteros acuticos de la familia Cecidomyiidae. Todas las especies de aves consumieron el cicadellide extico especfico del tamarisco. La comparacin de las dietas de aves con la disponibilidad de presas de artrpodos de origen acutico y terrestre mostr que los insectos terrestres comprendieron el 91% de todas las dietas de aves, comparado con un 9% de presas de origen acutico. Se registraron cambios estacionales en los artrpodos de la dieta de tres especies de aves, aunque no se detectaron cambios estacionales en los artrpodos muestreados en la vegetacin, indicando que al menos tres especies de aves no estuvieron seleccionando las presas en proporcin a su abundancia. Todas las especies de aves presentaron mayor superposicin de presas con los artrpodos colectados en la zona de vegetacin nativa de mesquite (Prosopis) y Acacia, la cual contuvo mayor diversidad de artrpodos y presas de mejor calidad (i.e., Lepidoptera). V. luciae y D. petechia consumieron altas proporciones de presas encontradas en mayor abundancia en la zona de vegetacin dominada por el tamarisco, que ha sido establecida desde la construccin de la Presa Glen Canyon. Estas especies parecieron exhibir plasticidad ecolgica en respuesta a un incremento antropognico en las presas como recuso alimenticio. 
1370694| Nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome b and ND2 genes were used in analyses of phylogenetic relationships of 10 of the 11 currently recognized species of wagtails (Aves: Motacilla). All analyses produced similar hypotheses of species relationships. Both Motacilla citreola and M. flava are paraphyletic, and consist of two and three distinct clades, respectively. M. lugens and M. alba are paraphyletic with respect to one another. None of the three currently recognized superspecies are monophyletic. A series of alternative tree topologies on which species and superspecies monophyly were enforced were significantly worse estimates of relationships in all cases except that of lugens and alba. Ancestral area reconstructions suggest that Motacilla arose in the eastern Palearctic; molecular-clock dates suggest that this occurred roughly 4.5 million years ago. Motacilla colonized Africa around 4.5 million years ago, and accomplished a second ancestral colonization of that continent about 2.9 million years ago. A number of recent dispersals from Eurasia to North Africa and North America (via both Alaska and Greenland) have occurred, and no fewer than 26 dispersals have occurred throughout the evolution of the modern distribution of this genus. This result, similar to results of other recently studied avian lineages, strongly suggests that dispersal has been an important factor in the development of modern-day avian distributions. /// Se usaron secuencias de nucletidos de los genes mitocondriales citocromo b y ND2 en anlisis de relaciones filogenticas en 10 de las 11 especies de aves actualmente reconocidas del gnero Motacilla. Todos los anlisis produjeron hiptesis similares sobre las relaciones entre las especies. Tanto M. citreola como M. flava son parafilticas, con dos y tres clados distintivos, respectivamente. M. lugens y M. alba son parafilticas en relacin a una con la otra. Ninguna de las tres super-especies actualmente reconocidas es monofiltica. Una serie de rboles topolgicos alternativos, en los cuales se forz la monofilia de las especies y super-especies, brindaron estimaciones de las relaciones significativamente peores para todos los casos, con excepcin de aquella para lugens y alba. Reconstrucciones ancestrales de rea sugieren que Motacilla surgi en el este Palertico; las fechas del reloj molecular sugieren que esto ocurri hace aproximadamente 4.5 millones de aos. Motacilla coloniz Africa alrededor de 4.5 millones de aos atrs, y protagoniz una segunda colonizacin ancestral de este continente cerca de 2.9 millones de aos atrs. Una serie de dispersiones recientes han ocurrido desde Eurasia hacia Africa del Norte y Amrica del Norte (va Alaska y Groenlandia), y no menos de 26 dispersiones han ocurrido a lo largo de la evolucin de la distribucin moderna de este gnero. Este resultado, similar al de otros estudios recientes de linajes de aves, sugiere con firmeza que la dispersin ha sido un factor importante en el desarrollo de las distribuciones modernas de aves. 
10.1525/cond.2013.110168|A Brownian bridge movement model (BBMM) is a relatively new concept that estimates the path of an animal's movement probabilistically from data recorded at brief intervals. A BBMM assumes that locations are not independent, whereas the classical kernel-density estimator (KDE) assumes they are. We estimated BBMM home ranges for 11 Black Vultures (
10.2307/1369600|In intact growing American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), plasma growth hormone (GH) concentration was correlated with body mass (r
10.2307/1367342|The Cocos Flycatcher (Nesotriccus ridgwayi), traditionally allied with Myiarchus, was recently placed in another subfamily, Fluvicolinae, near Empidonax and Cnemotriccus. A comparative study of the skull and syrinx demonstrates that the nearest relatives of Nesotriccus are Phaeomyias murina and Capsiempis flaveola in the subfamily Elaeniinae, since all three genera share unique derived character states of the nasal septum and of the supporting elements of the syrinx.
10.2307/1369286|We studied an introduced population of White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) during 1987 and 1988. Ptarmigan colonized alpine habitat 79 km north and 114 km south of their release site within 18 years of their liberation in the Sierra Nevada, California. Population densities were the lowest reported for the species. However, sex and age ratios were similar to native populations. Breeding season habitats were in areas of tall (>30 cm) willow (Salix) shrubs and contained more subshrub, moss, and boulder cover than in unused habitats. In the postbreeding season, ptarmigan used topographic depressions within breeding territories; brooding hens used moist meadows, while flocks occupied sites with abundant boulders. Ptarmigan primarily used the Salix anglorum antiplasta vegetation alliance on rocky, north-facing slopes. Willow abundance and proximity to water were the most discriminatory variables in logistic regression analyses between habitats used and unused by ptarmigan during the breeding and postbreeding seasons.
10.2307/1370191|Raptors commonly nest and roost on transmission towers and hydroelectric poles which exposes them to electromagnetic fields (EMFs) from power lines. Our objective was to determine whether EMF exposure affected the body mass of reproducing adult American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), and consequently, whether increased body mass was a function of increased dry matter intake related to EMF exposure. Captive kestrels were paired for one (short-term) or two (long-term) breeding seasons to determine EMF effects on body mass of adults. Short- and long-term EMF exposure of males affected overall mean body mass during the reproductive season, with EMF males heavier than controls when molting began. In contrast, the body mass and pectoral muscle scores of females were unaffected by EMF exposure during egg laying, 20 days post-laying, and after 70 days of EMF exposure. There were no significant effects on body mass or food-intake of wintering kestrels related to 10 days of EMF exposure. Our results can be explained by EMFs affecting the birds' response to the photoperiod as indicated by altered melatonin levels in these male kestrels. The onset of molt was advanced in EMF male kestrels.
10.2307/1367472|I studied the behavior of Purple Martins (Progne subis) at nightfall and the birds' sleeping arrangements, each night, from spring arrival until premigratory flocking began. Martins slept in martin houses until about 15 June, after which they commonly slept in trees. Birds that were firmly established on a territory slept in a room of that territory. Some pairs of birds slept together in the same room and others did not. This behavior was determined by the males. Pairs that occupied their territories for a week or longer often slept together. While building nests, pairs began to prefer certain rooms for sleeping. During egg laying and incubation, all females slept in the nest. They slept with the young and probably brooded them at night until the nestlings were 13-15 days old. Some females ceased sleeping with the nestlings after two weeks, and these females either slept in a tree or resumed sleeping with their mates. Many vagrant martins slept in martin houses, often on occupied territories. Martins frequently called from 03:00 until daybreak. I hypothesize that Purple Martins copulate in martin house rooms at night, probably in the early morning. Pairs' sleeping together facilitates mating. Nocturnal copulation benefits males by minimizing cuckoldry and neighbor interference. Females benefit by being less vulnerable to gang rapes. Pairs also may sleep together to conserve heat on cool spring nights.
10.2307/1369152|Diurnal bird communities in Southeast Alaska and adjacent Canada, censured in 1992-1994, sometimes had higher diversity and abundance in deciduous than coniferous forest. However, variation within each broad vegetation type and among years obscured any general pattern. Furthermore, rarefaction curves did not differ between forest types and a wider comparison between the communities of deciduous and coniferous forests in western North America was variable in both magnitude and direction. Thus, there is little evidence for a general trend toward greater diversity in bird communities of western and northern deciduous forests. Both deciduous and coniferous forests of the far north are geologically young, and there was some evidence that deciduous forest, at least, may not be saturated with bird species. Certain species were missing or shifted from conifer habitat elsewhere to deciduous habitat in our area. Coastal islands with coniferous forest and mainland patches of deciduous habitat supported about as many species as expected from the number of individuals present. A small number of bird species dominated the community at each site, but the dominant species differed considerably among locations. Proportional similarity of coastal and interior forest was low, except for locations at the north end of the Inside Passage, which supported species characteristic of both coastal and interior forests. The similarity of community composition in deciduous and coniferous stands was also low, especially on the coast.
1370634| First-year survival has important implications for the structure and growth of populations. We examined variation in seasonal survival of first-year Pacific Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) marked late in summer in Alaska at two brood-rearing areas on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (Tutakoke and Kokechik) and one area on the Arctic Coastal Plain to provide insight into the magnitude and timing of mortality during fall migration. First-year survival was lower in early fall (15 July-1 October), when birds fledged from brood-rearing areas and migrated to their primary fall staging area at Izembek Lagoon, Alaska, than during late fall and early winter (1 October-15 February), when birds made a long-distance transoceanic flight (>5000 km) to wintering areas in Baja California, Mexico. When compared to other years, monthly survival during early fall was 20-24% lower in 1992, the year of latest hatch dates and slowest growth of goslings. There was strong evidence to indicate that survival varied geographically within the early fall period. Monthly survival estimates during early fall were lowest for birds from Tutakoke, highest for birds from the Arctic Coastal Plain, and intermediate at Kokechik. Our findings revealed that most juvenile mortality occurred during the first 2 months following banding, and variation in juvenile survival during this period was likely influenced significantly by environmental parameters and habitat conditions on the breeding grounds. Monthly survival estimates during the subsequent 4 months were similar across geographic areas, and long-distance migration was likely the most important contributor to juvenile mortality during this period. /// La supervivencia durante el primer ao de vida tiene implicancias importantes para la estructura y el crecimiento de las poblaciones. Examinamos la variacin en la supervivencia estacional en individuos aales de Branta bernicla nigricans marcados al final del verano en Alaska en dos reas de cra del Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim (Tutakoke y Kokechik) y un rea en la planicie costera rtica para brindar informacin sobre la magnitud y el esquema temporal de mortalidad durante la migracin de otoo. La supervivencia durante el primer ao fue menor a principios del otoo (15 July-1 October), cuando las aves abandonaron las reas de cra y migraron hacia el rea principal de permanencia otoal en Izembek Lagoon, Alaska, que durante fines de otoo y comienzos del invierno (1 October-15 February), cuando las aves realizaron un vuelo transocenico de larga distancia (>5000 km) hacia las reas de invernada en Baja California, Mxico. Comparando con otros aos, la supervivencia mensual durante principios del otoo fue un 20-24% menor en 1992, el ao con fechas ms tardas de eclosin y con crecimiento ms lento de los polluelos. Hubo fuerte evidencia para indicar que la supervivencia vari geogrficamente a principios del otoo. Las estimaciones mensuales de supervivencia durante principios del otoo fueron menores para las aves de Tutakoke, mayores para las aves de la planicie costera rtica, e intermedias para Kokechik. Nuestros resultados revelaron que la mayora de la mortalidad juvenil ocurri durante los dos primeros meses luego del anillado, y la variacin en la supervivencia de los juveniles durante este perodo fue probablemente influenciada de forma significativa por parmetros ambientales y condiciones del hbitat en las reas de cra. Las estimaciones mensuales de supervivencia durante los cuatro meses siguientes fueron similares para las distintas reas geogrficas, y la migracin de larga distancia fue probablemente la causa ms importante de mortalidad juvenil durante este perodo. 
4123200| I used playbacks of recorded group song to survey and capture Black-breasted Wood-Quail (Odontophorus leucolaemus), a cloud forest endemic, in Monteverde, Costa Rica. This species is abundant in the dense understory of large windbreaks, forest fragments, and continuous forest of the Monteverde Reserve Complex. Mean covey size was four adults (range = 2-9 adults) and mean density, which did not differ between fragmented and continuous forest, was one covey per 3.3 ha. Wood-Quail defended all-purpose group territories and coveys persisted from one year to the next, indicating a group structure that is very different from what is found in most New World quail. A peak in breeding activity occurred at the transition from the wet to the dry season and larger groups produced significantly more juveniles than smaller groups in this population. Playbacks were a useful technique for detecting Black-breasted Wood-Quail; coveys responded to 65% of survey attempts by chorus and approach. By repeating the survey just three times, I was able to detect 91%  5% of all coveys that were known from extensive searches to occur in the remnant forest patches of the Monteverde community. The year-round sociality that is seen in this species is due in part to the retention of young on the natal territory beyond the age of sexual maturity. The intriguing relationship between group size and reproductive success in this population suggests the wood-quail may provide the first demonstration of a cooperative breeding system in the Galliformes. /// Utilic grabaciones de coros y dos para realizar censos y capturar individuos de Odontophorus leucolaemus, una especie endmica del bosque nublado en Monteverde, Costa Rica. Esta especie es abundante en zonas densas de sotobosque, en grandes reas de rompe-vientos, en fragmentos de bosque y en el bosque continuo de la red de reservas de Monteverde. El tamao de grupo promedio fue de cuatro adultos (variando entre 2 y 9 adultos) y la densidad promedio, que no vari entre el bosque fragmentado y el continuo, fue de un grupo por cada 3.3 hectreas. Los grupos sociales de O. leucolaemus defendieron los territorios de usos mltiples y estas asociaciones persistieron de un ao al prximo, indicando una estructura grupal que es muy diferente de la observada en la mayora de las codornices del nuevo mundo. Hubo una temporada de alta reproduccin durante la transicin entre la estacin seca y la estacin de lluvias. En esta poblacin, los grupos grandes produjeron ms juveniles que los grupos pequeos. El uso de grabaciones fue una tcnica eficaz para realizar los censos; los individuos de O. leucolaemus respondieron con coros y acercamientos en el 65% de los muestreos. Al repetir los muestreos solamente tres veces, pude localizar el 91%  5% de los grupos que fueron registrados durante bsquedas prolongadas en los fragmentos de bosque en la comunidad de Monteverde. En O. leucolaemus, la dinmica de grupo persiste durante todo el ao debido, en parte, a la retencin de las cras en los territorios natales luego de alcanzar la madurez sexual. La correlacin inesperada entre el tamao de los grupos y su xito reproductivo sugiere que las codornices podran ser el primer ejemplo de un sistema de reproduccin cooperativa en los Galliformes. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110070|Accurate estimates of juvenile survival are critical to understanding population processes. However, information about post-fledging vital rates is lacking for most avian species because of the difficulty of following individuals after they leave the nest. We radio-tagged 43 Red-bellied Woodpeckers (
10.2307/1370153|We examined the response of male and female Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) to playback of crows recorded from unmated males and reversed crows (crows played backwards as a control noise), which were broadcast from opposite corners of a playback environment. Females showed a significant preference for the speaker broadcasting crows vs. the speaker broadcasting reversed crows, as measured by the number of time samples females were located within 1 m of the speakers and based upon the mean distance females maintained from the two speakers. Males showed no differential response to crows and reversed crows. Thus, female Japanese Quail, but not males, exhibit positive phonotaxis to the crows of males. Our data also suggest that the temporal pattern of crow syllables is an important factor eliciting female response.
10.2307/1369472|The White-fronted Manakin, Lepidothrix serena (formerly in the genus Pipra), is currently recognized as a polytypic species that includes nominate serena, from the eastern Guianan region, and suavissima, from southern and eastern Venezuela and Guyana. Nominate serena and suavissima are significantly different in plumage, syringeal morphology, and vocalizations. The distribution of the two forms has not been completely documented, but no contact between the populations is known. Derived morphological and behavioral novelties indicate that the two forms are sister taxa, and that they constitute distinct phylogenetic and biological species. The recommended common name of the newly recognized Lepidothrix suavissima is the Tepui Manakin. Maintenance of the current biological species taxonomy may underestimate the diversity of species in the Neotropics and hamper the documentation of diversity in the Neotropics that is important to conservation biology.
10.2307/3247727|Based on strong differences in plumage coloration between coastal California (californica subspecies group) and Great Basin (woodhouseii subspecies group) populations of Scrub Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens), museum specimens representing gene flow between the two forms are identified. A total of 27 examples of apparent genetic exchange between two forms (individuals of one subspecies group taken within the range of the other) is documented. Immigration rates are on the order of one per hundred or one per thousand individuals, a rate sufficient to prevent differentiation by genetic drift alone if effective population sizes are in the range of 100-550 individuals. Gene flow east-to-west across the Mojave Desert is two to seven times stronger than west-to-east movement. This directional bias has theoretical implications because an important assumption (symmetry of gene flow patterns) of most theoretical treatments of the effects of gene flow is violated. If effective population sizes are comparable in the two forms, then the bias in gene flow should lead to an overall greater rate of differentiation in the genetically more isolated woodhouseii populations.
90008047|Cannibalism occurs regularly across a broad range of taxa with a variety of ecological and evolutionary consequences. Rises in sea surface temperature (SST) have been linked to increased cannibalism in some species, including polar bears (
10.2307/1369150|Adult female Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) were responsible for 64% of the predatory behaviors on Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus) chicks on Tern Island, French Frigate Shoals, Hawaii. Subadults with red orbital rings (presumably females) also preyed on Brown Noddy chicks, although they were observed hunting less frequently than adult females. No adult male frigatebirds were observed hunting in 118.3 hours of observation. Frigatebird predation likely accounted for 95% of mortality observed in Brown Noddy chicks less than 24 days of age. Chicks were as likely to survive to fledging regardless of nest location or down coloration; however, more chicks survived to fledging if hatched between mid-February and mid-May. Unequal sex ratios, sexual size dimorphism, resource partitioning, and breeding strategies of frigatebirds were evaluated to explain why sex differences in frigatebird predation behaviors were observed on Tern Island.
10.2307/1369529|We evaluated the effect and effectiveness of antimony potassium tartrate (tartar emetic) on 137 bird species from 29 families and subfamilies from one humid forest site and two mangrove sites in central Panama. Of the 2,656 birds forced to regurgitate, we obtained 1,942 diet samples comprising 12,608 taxonomically identified items. Seventy birds (2.6%) died after administration of the emetic, with some Trochilidae (Phaethornis) and Pipridae (Pipra, Manacus) being especially sensitive to the chemical. No significant differences were found between the number of items regurgitated and that found in stomach contents. However, regurgitations using tartar emetic appeared to be more efficient than analyses of feces to investigate food preference. We also provide details on how to process samples of hummingbirds to permit pollen (flower) identification.
10.2307/1368267|Four species of Hawaiian honeycreepers feeding on canopy flowers of the Ohia, Metrosideros collina, used canopy foliage as a retreat site from interference interactions. Concealment value of canopy foliage varied with its density. In open-canopied trees, birds were more widely spaced, flew away from chases more often, and chased and retreated for greater distances than in closed-canopied trees. Greater spacing seemed to be due to lower concealment value, which in turn resulted in greater chase distances. While greater retreat distances may have resulted from greater chase distances or lower retreat site quality, corrections for differential chase distances suggest that greater retreat distances are a response to decreased canopy density. Adult dominants evoked greater retreat responses in subordinates than did immature dominants. Unlike adult subordinates, immature subordinates were not spaced more widely nor did they retreat more frequently in open than in closed canopy. These results indicate that birds modify agonistic behaviors and responses with respect to retreat site quality and interference, and that sometimes age-related effects determined the responses evoked.
10.1525/cond.2013.120017|From 2004 to 2006 we studied the spatial activity of Long-eared Owls (
10.2307/1370302|We studied breeding bird communities in extensive bottomland hardwood forests along the lower Roanoke River in North Carolina during 1992 and 1993. We documented a rich avian community and recorded exceptionally high densities of two species (Prothonotary Warbler Protonotaria citrea, Acadian Flycatcher Empidonax virescens), as well as modest densities of three species rarely encountered elsewhere in the region (Cerulean Warbler Dendroica cerulea, Swainson's Warbler Limnothlypis swainsonii, American Redstart Setophaga ruticilla). The effects of patch size and edge on bird abundance were small in this forested landscape, but forest type had a large effect. We found half of the species analyzed to differ in abundance between the two primary habitat types, swamp forest and levee forest. In contrast, no species was consistently more abundant at patch interiors than near edges, and only two forest birds were more common in large compared with small patches. Species analyzed included permanent residents, short-distance migrants, Neotropical migrants, and those identified as forest-interior and area-sensitive species in other studies. Our results suggest that the Roanoke River bottomland forests may be functioning effectively as a reserve for a number of bird species.
90008466|Understanding factors that influence the survival of endangered migratory species is critical for making informed management decisions, yet this understanding relies on long-term recapture datasets for species that are, by definition, rare. Using 3 geographically widespread (Saskatchewan, Alberta, and Manitoba, Canada) and long-term (6-15 yr) mark-recapture datasets, we quantified spatial and temporal variation in apparent annual survival and recapture probabilities of Burrowing Owl (
10.2307/1368618|We observed reverse mounting behavior in a color-banded population of Groove-billed Anis (Crotophaga sulcirostris) in Costa Rica. Sex was determined with measurements and laparotomies. Reverse mounting appeared nearly identical to mounting by males. Of 27 mountings in which at least one bird was banded, 15 were reverse mountings. Only reverse mountings (11 observations) were observed in the pre-breeding period. During the breeding season males mounted females in 12 of 16 mountings; one of the reverse mountings followed nest predation. The timing of reverse mounting in anis suggests that it has an adaptive function in courtship. The proximate mechanism may be differential timing between partners in the development of breeding condition or of sexual motivation.
4151074| Previous research on individual differences in the acoustic structure of vocalizations and vocal recognition has largely focused on the contexts of parent-offspring interactions, territory defense, sexual interactions, and group cohesion. In contrast, few studies have examined individual differences in the acoustic structure of mobbing and alarm calls. The purpose of this study was to explore individual differences in the acoustic structure of the inflected alarm caw of the American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos). The alarm caws of 15 wild, marked individuals were recorded and 25 acoustic measurements were made automatically using customized software. A stepwise discriminant function analysis showed that 20 of the 25 variables were important in discriminating among individuals, with 65% classification success. We used factor analysis to reduce the large number of variables to a set of seven meaningful call features. All of these features differed among individuals, suggesting that American Crows have the potential to discriminate among individual birds on the basis of call structure alone. Five of the features differed between the sexes, with call frequency being the most significant. One clearly subordinate male clustered with the females, raising the possibility that social status partially determines the sex-based differences. Encoding of individual identity in alarm contexts may be adaptive if receiver vigilance and approach urgency depend on the status, reliability, or family membership of the alarm signaler. /// Las investigaciones anteriores sobre las diferencias individuates en la estructura acstica de las vocalizaciones y sobre el reconocimiento individual se han centrado principalmente en los contextos de interacciones entre padres e hijos, defensa de territorios, interacciones sexuales y cohesin de grupo. En contraste, pocos estudios han examinado las diferencias individuates en la estructura acstica de las llamadas de alarma y de acoso a los depredadores. El propsito de este estudio fue explorar las diferencias individuales en la estructura acstica del llamado declinado de alarma de Corvus brachyrhynchos. Se grabaron las llamadas de alarma de 15 individuos silvestres marcados y se realizaron automticamente 25 mediciones acsticas utilizando un programa de computacin diseado para este propsito. Un anlisis de funciones discriminantes por etapas demostr que 20 de las 25 variables fueron importantes para la discriminacin entre individuos, con un xito de clasificacin del 65%. Utilizamos un anlisis de factores para reducir el amplio nmero de variables a un grupo de siete caractersticas signiflcativas de los llamados. Todas estas caractersticas variaron entre individuos, lo cual sugiere que los individuos de C. brachyrhynchos pueden potencialmente distinguirse con base en tan solo la estructura de la llamada. Cinco de las caractersticas variaron entre sexos, siendo la frecuencia de la llamada la ms significativa. Los llamados de un macho claramente subordinado se agruparon con los de las hembras, sugiriendo que el estatus social puede ser un determinante parcial de las diferencias entre sexos. La codificacin de la identidad individual en contextos de alarma podra ser adaptativa si la vigilancia y la urgencia de aproximacin del receptor dependen del estatus, fiabilidad, o membresa familiar de quien emite la alarma. 
10.2307/1370281|Prey items were identified from the stomachs of wintering Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) collected in California at the Pixley National Wildlife Refuge and Carrizo Plain Natural Area in 1991, and south of the Salton Sea in 1992. Stomach contents of the 39 birds included 2,092 different food items representing 13 orders and at least 16 families of invertebrates. Diets at each of the three locales differed greatly, with coleopterans and hymenopterans dominating the Carrizo samples, lepidopterans the Pixley samples, and coleopterans and orthopterans the Salton Sea samples. Diets of males and females were similar. These findings counter the current perception that Mountain Plover diets are specialized on coleopterans and orthopterans, and bring the species more in line as a dietary generalist/opportunist as reported for most shorebirds.
1370748| Plasma prolactin and corticosterone levels were measured in free-living Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) at Torgersen Island, Antarctica (64S latitude), at 4-hr intervals throughout the day during early January 1997 and examined for evidence of a 24-hr rhythm. At this season and latitude, natural daylight is continuous. No significant change in the plasma level of either corticosterone or prolactin was found across the day in this population. In contrast, hormone levels in birds at lower latitudes typically fluctuate between night and day. Our data would not have revealed circadian rhythms within individuals even if they exist, because each bird was only sampled once. The lack of hormone rhythms in the population, however, suggests that changes in light intensity at this latitude in the Antarctic summer are not sufficient to entrain, or perhaps even to maintain, circadian rhythms of individuals. /// A principios de enero de 1997 en la Isla Torgersen, Antrtica (latitud 64S), se midieron cada 4 horas los niveles de prolactina y corticosterona en el plasma de Pygoscelis adeliae en busca de evidencia de un ciclo hormonal de 24 horas. Durante esta estacin del ao y a esta latitud, la luz solar es continua. No se encontraron cambios significativos en los niveles de prolactina ni de corticosterona en el plasma a travs del da en esta poblacin. En contraste, los niveles hormonales en aves en menores latitudes fluctan tpicamente entre el da y la noche. An si existiesen, nuestros datos no habran revelado la existencia de ritmos circadianos para cada individuo, dado que cada animal fue muestreado una sola vez. Sin embargo, la ausencia de ciclos hormonales a nivel poblacional, sin embargo, indica que los cambios de luz a esta latitud en el verano antrtico no son suficientes para sincronizar, o quizs ni siquiera para mantener, ritmos circadianos en los individuos. 
10.2307/1370177| Breeding bird atlases providing distribution data at a regional scale are becoming increasingly common. To assess the ability of such data to develop broad-scale birdhabitat models, we used data from a breeding bird atlas and landscape variables obtained from a geographic information system (GIS) to study the distribution of seven woodpecker species in the Jura, France: the Black (Dryocopus martius), Green (Picus viridis), Greyheaded (P. canus), Great Spotted (Dendrocopos major), Middle Spotted (D. medius), and Lesser Spotted (D. minor) Woodpeckers, and the Wryneck (Jynx torquilla). We used logistic regression to develop predictive models from variables that described each 575-ha atlas cell in terms of forest composition, forest class richness, edge density, and elevation. For all seven species, prediction rates were better than chance; however, improvements over chance classification varied from 14-39%, indicating that predictive ability was species-specific. From our study, we identified limitations inherent to working with gridded data, including grid positioning problems and inability to compute spatial variables. In spite of these limitations, our models could be used for simulations, to improve the atlas itself, and to identify potential suitable habitat. /// Les atlas d'oiseaux nicheurs, recueils de donnes de distribution  l'chelle rgionale, sont dsormais courrants. Afin d'valuer l'utilit de ces atlas pour crer des modles espce-milieu  large chelle, nous nous sommes servis de donnes provenant d'un atlas local d'oiseaux nicheurs et de variables extraites via un systme d'information gographique (SIG) pour tudier la distribution de sept espces de pics dans le Jura, France: les pics noir (Dryocopus martius), vert (Picus viridis), cendr (P. canus), peiche (Dendrocopos major), mar (Dendrocopos medius), et peichette (Dendrocopos minor), et le torcol fourmilier (Jynx torquilla). Nous avons utilis la rgression logistique pour dvelopper des models prdictifs, en caractrisant chaque maille de 575 ha de la grille de recensement par sa composition forestire, sa richesse en types de fort, sa densit de lisires, et son altitude moyenne. Pour les sept espces de pics, nous avons obtenus des taux de prdiction suprieurs  ceux ds  la chance. Cependant, la capacit de prdiction est dpendante de l'espce modlise, l'amlioration apporte par nos modles variant de 14%  39%. Notre tude nous a permis d'identifier des limitations inhrantes  l'utilisation de donnes prsentes sous forme de grille, telles que les problmes de positionnement de la grille, et la difficult d'obtenir des variables spatiales. Malgr ces limitations, nos modles prsentent des applications en simulation, pour amliorer l'atlas, et pour identifier des sites potentiellement favorables aux pics. 
10.2307/1370403|Papers by Reginald Moreau, David Lack, and Alexander Skutch published during the 1940s set the stage for the development of thinking about life histories over the following decades. Lack was concerned about the fundamental issue of individual vs. group selection and turned life-history evolution into a battleground for this debate. His monolithic focus on nesting success as a measure of fitness and on food availability as the principal determinant of nesting success obscured the rich empirical background brought to the debate by Skutch and the diverse evolutionary forces envisioned by Moreau. Lack's strong convictions, single-mindedness, and eloquence forced biologists to confront several important problems but also held back the full development of life-history theory until the mid-1960s. Retrospective consideration of these early life-history studies shows how science can progress through a balance of conviction and reflection.
4096482| We investigated patterns of seasonal variation in body weight in six populations of five resident species of temperate-zone woodpeckers: Acorn Woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), Red-bellied Woodpecker (M. carolinus), Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis). Downy Woodpecker (P. pubescens), and Great Spotted Woodpecker (Dendrocopos major). After controlling for time of day and overall body size, annual variation in body weight was small and generally not statistically significant. However, analysis revealed evidence of significant "winter fattening," comparable in magnitude to other temperate-zone resident species, in three of the species. The degree of winter fattening did not correlate with either the size of the acorn crop (for the Acorn Woodpecker) or latitude, two variables potentially related to predictability of food resources. However, the smaller species exhibited significantly greater winter fattening than the larger species, as predicted by the hypothesis that energy storage should be more important for small-bodied species. Furthermore, the food-storing Acorn Woodpecker exhibited considerably less winter fattening than the nonfood-storing species, supporting the hypothesis that food storage provides an ecological alternative to winter fattening. /// Investigamos los patrones estacionales de variacin en el peso corporal en seis poblaciones de cinco especies residentes de pjaros carpinteros de la zona templada: Melanerpes formicivorus, M. carolinus, Picoides borealis, P. pubescens y Dendrocopos major. Tras controlar por la hora del da y el tamao corporal general, la variacin anual en el peso fue pequea y en general no significativa estadsticamente. Sin embargo, los anlisis evidenciaron que tres de las especies experimentan un "engordamiento invernal" comparable en magnitud al documentado para otras aves residentes de la zona templada. El grado de engordamiento invernal no se correlacion con el tamao de la cosecha de bellotas (para M. formicivorus) ni con la latitud, dos variables potencialmente relacionadas con la predecibilidad de los recursos alimenticios. Sin embargo, las especies de menor tamao engordaron significativamente ms que las especies de tamao ms grande, una prediccin de la hiptesis que plantea que el almacenamiento de energa debera ser ms importante para las especies de cuerpo pequeo. Adems, M. formicivorus, una especie que almacena alimentos, exhibi un engordamiento de invierno considerablemente menor que las especies que no almacenan alimentos, lo que apoya la hiptesis de que el almacenamiento de alimento representa una alternativa ecolgica al engordamiento. 
10.2307/1367891| During a four-month search for nesting Thick-billed Parrots (Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha) in 1979, we found 55 active nests at elevations of 2,300 to 3,070 m in northwestern Mexico's Sierra Madre Occidental. All nests were in cavities of live trees or standing dead trees (snags). Pine (Pinus spp.) snags contained over one-half (58%) of these nests. These parrots laid two to four eggs (x = 2.9; SD = 0.65) between mid-June and late July and young flew from their nests between early September and late October. Nesting density was apparently related to availability of suitable cavities and was variable, with some nests as close as 2 m apart in the same tree. The nesting season corresponded with the maturing of pine seeds, the parrots' principal food. Commercial logging of live pines for lumber, and of pine snags for pulpwood, is eliminating large numbers of proven and potential nest sites. Forest management practices should be modified to leave some suitable trees throughout the forest as potential nest sites for Thick-billed Parrots. 
1370357| Breeding ecology and behavior of the Cape Rockjumper (Chaetops frenatus), a ground-nesting passerine endemic to the mountain fynbos of South Africa, were studied for three years near Cape Town. Breeding groups occupied exclusive 4-11 ha territories, and consisted of a breeding pair and often 1-2 additional individuals, which were usually, but not exclusively, offspring of the adult pair from the preceding breeding season. Supernumerary individuals of both sexes participated in territorial defense and alarm calling and in the feeding of nestlings and fledglings of the breeding pair. Supernumerary females also helped with nest building and incubation. These findings confirm earlier suppositions that the Cape Rockjumper is a socially monogamous, cooperative-breeding species, with offspring remaining in their home territory for at least one year during which they assist their parents in raising additional offspring. New information is also presented on other aspects of the breeding biology of this little-studied species. /// Durante tres aos se estudi la ecologa reproductiva de Chaetops frenatus, un paserino que anida en el suelo, y que es endmico de los fynbos montaosos de Sud-Africa, en las cercanas de Cape Town. Los grupos reproductivos ocupan de forma exclusiva territorios de 4-11 ha, y estn compuestos por una pareja reproductiva y en muchos casos con 1 a 2 individuos adicionales, que muchas veces, aunque no siempre, constituyen la progenie del par adulto de la poca reproductiva anterior. Individuos supernumerarios de ambos sexos participan en la defensa del terrirorio con cantos de alerta, as como en la alimentacin de los polluelos y volantones del par reproductivo. Las hembras supernumerarias tambin ayudan en la construccin del nido e incubacin. Estos hallazgos confirman suposiciones anteriores que Ch. frenatus es unave mongama social de reproduccin cooperative, cuya descendencia permanece en el territorio parental por lo menos un ao, perodo durante el cual asisten a sus progenenitores en criar a la siguiente camada. Se presenta adems nueva informacin sobre otros aspectos de la biologa reproductiva de esta especie tan poco estudiada. 
10.2307/1369422|We examined simultaneously incubation rhythms and mass loss of 16 female Common Goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula). On average, female goldeneyes spent 81% of the day incubating eggs, and took 2.7 recesses per day, each lasting an average of 114 min. Females began incubation approximately 20% heavier than the lowest body mass they reached over the incubation period, a slightly greater mass loss than predicted for ducks their size. Goldeneye incubation behaviors were similar to those reported for other Mergini, and were consistent with the general relationship between body size and incubation behavior in waterfowl. Females differed in how they varied their incubation behavior in response to incubation patterns on the previous day and environmental factors, although females typically responded to warmer temperatures by spending more time off the nest. Female golden-eyes appeared to manage their mass loss by modifying their incubation behavior. Females tended to lose less mass on days following more substantial mass loss, and once females approached their minimum mass they spent more time off the nest. However, not all females were successful in this approach. Two females may have deserted their nests because they had relatively high mass loss (>20%) and reached a low body mass (about 600 g), and thus could not maintain incubation sufficient to hatch their eggs without putting themselves at further risk.
10.2307/1369792|Using museum specimens, I document the molt cycles and molting grounds of the Gray Vireo (Vireo vicinior). During prebasic molts, adult female Gray Vireos replace their primaries in 57 days, whereas adult males take 70 days; all body plumage is replaced during this molt. Prebasic molts occur almost exclusively on the breeding grounds; just 3 of 41 specimens replacing primaries were collected away from breeding grounds. No molting specimens were collected from wintering areas. Prealternate molt occurs on the wintering grounds, and appears limited to the replacement of innermost secondaries and a limited molt of body plumage. By performing prebasic molt on breeding grounds, the Gray Vireo differs from several other western breeding passerine species that use desert regions of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico to exploit late summer food resources. The areas of these southwestern desert regions used by other species form a small portion of the breeding grounds, and encompass the entire wintering grounds, of Gray Vireos. I hypothesize that this contrast in molting regions is not due to differences in the general timing of prebasic molts among these species; rather, the contrast may be due to constraints imposed on Gray Vireos by a dietary shift to fruit during winter and the need to defend winter territories.
10.2307/1369355|Although difficult to detect, interference competition among foraging birds may affect the fitness of an inferior competitor by lowering foraging success. We studied foraging flocks of Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) at Culebra, Puerto Rico, in 1990 to examine the effects of small and large monospecific and mixed-species flocks on the foraging success and behavior of this threatened species. Roseate Terns mostly foraged in small flocks with Brown Noddies (Anous stolidus). The frequency of foraging attempts in Roseate Terns decreased with increasing size of mixed-species flocks, primarily due to passive interference by Brown Noddies, which foraged just over the water surface and limited the area available to Roseate Terns. The size of monospecific Roseate Tern flocks had no effect on foraging attempt frequency. Roseate Terns also aborted more feeding dives and foraged more by dipping when in flocks with noddies, relative to flocks of only conspecifics. Proportionally fewer Roseate Terns than expected foraged in large, mixed-species flocks (>8 birds), suggesting that they preferentially avoid large flocks that result in lower foraging success. Although Brown Noddies caused a reduction in Roseate Tern foraging attempt frequencies and an increase in aborted dives, we were unable to detect a negative effect on adult survival or reproductive success of this population.
10.2307/1369757| In 1994 a complete census of the Waved Albatross (Phoebastria irrorata) at Isla Espaola, Galpagos Islands, Ecuador estimated the world population as at least 18,200 breeding pairs, a 52% increase over the 1970-1971 estimate of 12,000 breeding pairs. Two small inland colonies disappeared between 1971 and 1994, estimates for two coastal colonies increased by at least 138 and 335%, and one other large colony remained stable over this same time period. 
40072363|Variation in song can play a central role in species and subspecies recognition among birds. The ability of individuals to distinguish between songs of their own versus songs of a different subspecies potentially strengthens local adaptation of subspecific populations. We investigated the degree of vocal divergence and discrimination between two subspecies of Swamp Sparrow (
4500977| Recent mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and morphological studies suggest that the Curvebilled Thrasher (Toxostoma curvirostre) consists of three historical groups, corresponding to the subspecies curvirostre and palmeri and a new taxon distributed in Oaxaca and Puebla. Previous mtDNA analysis did not include the subspecies T. c. insularum found on Tiburon Island (Sonora, Mexico). We collected new samples to address the distinctiveness of the three groups, to explore possible contact between the curvirostre and southern clades, to clarify the status of T. c. insularum, and to explore population histories of the major clades. Our mtDNA results confirm the existence of three major haplotype clades, which represent either two or three species depending on the species concept used. We interpret the occurrence of two mismatched haplotypes in Puebla and Oaxaca as recent gene flow. Haplotypes from Tiburon Island were intermixed within the palmeri clade, thereby failing to support the subspecies T. c. insularum. In contrast, principal components analysis of morphological data showed that insularum was distinct and, given the lack of mtDNA distinctiveness, suggests rapid phenotypic evolution on the island. The molecular data suggest that the widespread curvirostre clade has undergone recent population growth, whereas the other two clades appear to have been more stable. /// Estudios recientes de ADN mitocondrial (ADNmt) y de morfologa sugieren que Toxostoma curvirostre consiste de tres grupos histricos que corresponden con los grupos de las subespecies palmeri, curvirostre y un nuevo taxn distribuido en Oaxaca y el sur de Puebla. Anlisis previos de ADNmt no incluyeron a T. c. insularum, subespecie endmica de la Isla Tiburn (Sonora, Mxico). Colectamos ejemplares clave para evaluar el reconocimiento de los tres grupos, para explorar el posible contacto entre curvirostre y el clado del sur, para esclarecer el estatus de T. c. insularum y para explorar las historias poblacionales de estos grupos. Nuestros resultados confirman la existencia de tres grandes clados haplotpicos, los cuales representan dos o tres especies dependiendo del concepto de especie utilizado. Interpretamos como un flujo gentico reciente la ocurrencia de haplotipos intercambiados en Puebla y Oaxaca. Los haplotipos de la Isla Tiburn se mezclaron con los del clado palmeri, fallando en dar soporte a su estatus como un distinto taxn. En contraste, los anlisis de componentes principales de los datos morfolgicos, mostraron que insularum es distinto, y dada la carencia de reconocimiento a travs de ADNmt, sugiere una rpida evolucin fenotpica en la Isla. Los datos moleculares sugieren que el clado curvirostre, ampliamente distribuido, ha experimentado un crecimiento poblacional reciente, mientras que los otros dos clados aparentan una mayor estabilidad. 
10.1525/cond.2010.100029|Although the onset of incubation prior to completion of the clutch leads to developmental asynchrony of the embryos, waterfowl eggs tend to hatch synchronously (within 324 hr). The mechanisms waterfowl use to synchronize development of embryos and allow for synchronous hatching are still not well understood. A variety of mechanisms have been proposed, including vocalization by embryos, egg size, egg constituents, and developmental asynchrony at hatching. Empirical evidence for any of these mechanisms, however, is limited for species that lay large clutches (>6 eggs). We hypothesize that the eggs' position within the clutch may synchronize development of embryos of dabbling ducks that lay clutches large enough that central and peripheral eggs may be distinguished. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the developmental stage of central and peripheral eggs and testing for a relationship between the order in which an egg was laid and its position (central or peripheral) within the clutch. We found that eggs laid later were central more often than expected if their distribution were random and that during the first 12 days of incubation central eggs tended to be less developed than peripheral eggs.
10.2307/1370325|We examined the relationship between local water conditions (measured as the percent of total area of basins covered by water) and clutch size, egg volume, and hatchling mass of Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and Gadwalls (A. strepera) on four study sites in the Prairie Pothole Region of North Dakota and Minnesota, 1988-1994. We also examined the relationship between pond density and clutch size of Mallards and Gadwalls, using data collected at another North Dakota site, 1966-1981. For Mallards, we found no relationships to be significant. For Gadwalls, clutch size increased with percent basin area wet and pond density; hatchling mass marginally increased with percent basin area wet. These species differences may reflect, in part, that Mallards acquire lipid reserves used to produce early clutches before they reach the breeding grounds, whereas Gadwalls acquire lipid reserves locally; thus Gadwall clutches are more likely to be influenced by local food resources.
10.2307/1369423|Prior to use of genetic techniques, extra-pair copulations and intraspecific brood parasitism were rarely observed in long-term monogamous geese. DNA fingerprinting analysis of nine families of Barnacle Geese (Branta leucopsis) revealed one case of intraspecific nest parasitism with the offspring fathered by the attendant male, and one adoption of a foreign gosling. Observations showed that adoptions accounted for 5.8% and 24.6% of goslings hatched, or 13.3% and 24% of families in two successive years. Adoption appears to be common shortly after the young have hatched and has been assumed to result from accidental brood mixing when parent-offspring recognition is not yet fully developed. We found adoptions to occur in goslings as old as 4-12 weeks, when both parents and offspring are capable of recognizing each other, suggesting that accidental mixing alone cannot explain this phenomenon.
1370051| To evaluate why ducklings hatching from large eggs generally survive better than ducklings from small eggs, we quantified egg-size-related variation in composition and quality of eggs and ducklings of wild Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis). Fresh egg mass averaged 74.1  4.3 g (SD), but ranged from 60.5 to 83.8 g. Despite remarkably large egg size relative to adult female body size, and a 1.4-fold difference in mass between the smallest and largest eggs, most egg constituents increased in direct proportion to fresh egg mass, with bigger eggs producing heavier and larger ducklings. However, large ducklings had proportionately larger yolk sac stores than did small ducklings. Thus, large ducklings also had greater total lipid reserves, an advantage that could enable them to survive better than small ducklings during the first few days after hatching. /// Para evaluar por qu los polluelos que eclosionan de huevos grandes sobreviven mejor que polluelos provenientes de huevos pequeos, cuantificamos la variacin en la composicin y calidad de huevos y polluelos en relacin al tamao del huevo en Oxyura jamaicensis. La masa fresca de los huevos promedi 74.1  4.3 g (DE), pero vari entre 60.5 y 83.8 g. A pesar del gran tamao de los huevos en relacin al tamao corporal de la hembra, y de una diferencia de 1.4 veces en la masa entre el huevo ms pequeo y l ms grande, la mayora de los componentes del huevo aumentaron en proporcin directa con la masa fresca del huevo. Huevos ms grandes produjeron polluelos ms grandes y pesados. Sin embargo, polluelos grandes presentaron relativamente mayores reservas en el saco vitelino que polluelos pequeos. Por lo tanto, los polluelos grandes tambin presentaron una mayor reserva total de lpidos, ventaja que podra permitirles sobrevivir mejor que a los polluelos ms pequeos durante los primeros das luego de la eclosin. 
1370601| Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) were followed throughout their annual cycle along the Pacific Coast of North America. Changes in body condition and corticosterone were tracked at two overwintering sites (Ensenada, Mexico, and San Diego, California), four migration stopover sites (Bodega Bay, California, Grays Harbor and False Bay, Washington, and Hartney Bay, Alaska), and a breeding site (Nome, Alaska). Adult males and females had elevated weight and fat scores during spring migration, breeding, and autumn migration relative to lean levels during winter. Although elevated mass and fat reserves may hinder escape from predators and are not necessary at wintering sites with benign conditions, the cost-benefit trade-offs with weight and agility shift during migration and breeding. Extra fat and muscle are necessary for fueling the long flight to and from the breeding grounds and serve as a hedge against unpredictable food and weather conditions on the breeding grounds. First-year birds weighed less and had lower fat reserves at smaller stopover sites than migrants at a large stopover site. Plasma levels of corticosterone revealed seasonal differences in the adrenocortical response to stress, although initial levels were fairly consistent across seasons. The highest stress response of the annual cycle in males was during autumn migration, in contrast to the lowest levels during early spring migration, breeding, and overwintering. Late-spring migrants and autumn premigrants had intermediate stress responses. An emerging pattern from this and other shorebird studies is that migrants with imminent flights of more than 1000 km have elevated corticosterone levels. /// Se siguieron individuos de Calidris mauri a travs de su ciclo anual a lo largo de la costa Pacfica de Norteamrica. Se evaluaron los cambios en la condicin corporal y la corticosterona en dos sitios de invernacin (Ensenada, Mxico y San Diego, California), cuatro sitios de escala migratoria (Bodega Bay, California, Grays Harbor y False Bay, Washington, y Hartney Bay, Alaska) y un sitio reproductivo (Nome, Alaska). Los machos y hembras adultos tuvieron pesos y niveles de grasa altos durante las pocas de migracin de primavera, reproduccin y migracin de otoo con relacin a los niveles magros del invierno. Aunque presentar masa elevada y reservas de grasa puede limitar el escape de los depredadores y no es necesario en los sitios de invernada con condiciones benignas, existe un cambio en la solucin de compromiso entre el costo-beneficio del peso y la agilidad de vuelo durante la migracin y la reproduccin. La grasa y msculos adicionales son necesarios para proveer combustible para los largos vuelos hacia y desde las reas de reproduccin y sirven como proteccin contra condiciones alimenticias y climticas impredecibles en las reas reproductivas. Las aves aales pesaron menos y tuvieron menos reservas grasas en sitios de escala pequeos que los migrantes en un sitio de escala grande. Los niveles plasmticos de corticosterona mostraron diferencias estacionales en la respuesta adrenocrtica al estrs, aunque los niveles iniciales fueron relativamente consistentes a travs de las estaciones. La respuesta al estrs ms alta del ciclo anual de los machos se present durante la migracin de otoo, contrastando con los niveles ms bajos durante el inicio de la migracin de primavera, la poca reproductiva y la poca de invernacin. Las aves que migraron temprano en la primavera y las premigrantes de otoo presentaron niveles intermedios de respuesta al estrs. Un patrn que emerge de ste y otros estudios sobre aves marinas es que las migratorias que hacen vuelos de ms de 1000 km presentan niveles elevados de corticosterona. 
10.2307/1368149|We studied the food habits of Whiskered Auklets (Aethia pygmaea) at Buldir Island, western Aleutian Islands, Alaska, during the summer of 1976. At Buldir, these birds fed primarily in and near convergent tidal fronts in the passes between three islets just offshore; feeding occurred throughout the day. Whiskered Auklets ate at least 10 different species of zooplanktonic prey, of which the copepod Neocalanus plumchrus was the most important. Next in importance were chaetognaths (probably Sagitta elegans), the amphipod Parathemisto pacifica, megalopae of the crab Erimacrus isenbeckii, and an unidentified amphipod. Pteropods (probably Limacina helicina), larval cephalopods, and a larval fish occurred in trace amounts. During most of the summer, Whiskered Auklets were nearly monophagous on N. plumchrus; we do not consider a difference in prey during late incubation/early chick rearing to represent a biologically-significant trend. We collected Least (A. pusilla), Crested (A. cristatella), and Parakeet (Cyclorrhynchus psittacula) auklets during late chick rearing, to compare their food habits with those of Whiskered Auklets. At this time, both Least and Whiskered auklets were monophagous on smaller N. plumchrus, whereas Crested and Parakeet auklets mainly ate larger N. cristatus and P. pacifica; Parakeet Auklets ate the widest diversity of zooplankton. Selection of prey by the four auklet species appeared to occur in relation to size, with the smaller auklets eating smaller zooplankters.
4500958| Measurement of stable-hydrogen isotopes (D) in feathers of migrating birds can provide information on where feathers were grown in North America, at least to an approximate band of latitude. This approach has greatly increased our ability to investigate aspects of avian migration and stopover ecology, since origins of unmarked individuals at migration stopover sites can be estimated for the first time. However, few studies have explored the power of combining isotope measurements with geographic information system (GIS) methods. We measured D values in feathers of hatching-year (HY) Swainson's Thrushes (Catharus ustulatus; n = 60), Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina; n = 113), and Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis; n = 158) at Ft. Morgan Peninsula, Alabama (3010'N, 8800'W), a migration stopover site along the Gulf coast. By applying an elevation-corrected hydrogen isotope basemap for birds in North America, we derived a GIS surface depicting expected feather D values across the continent. We then used GIS to constrain the possible origins of the sampled populations by considering only values falling within the North American breeding ranges of the species. We depicted likely origins of migrating birds by the 50% and 75% tolerance limits of the data. Our GIS analysis indicated that our captured populations represented much-reduced regions of possible origin based on the North American breeding distributions. Gradients in abundance data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) allowed us to further narrow possible origins within isotopic boundaries for Wood Thrushes and Gray Catbirds. This exercise provided a means by which priority regions and habitats could be assessed at large continental scales based on actual productivity. We suggest the combination of isotopic and GIS tools provides a powerful means to derive conservation priorities and to investigate key factors involved in the ecology of avian migration and stopover. /// La medicin de istopos estables de hidrgeno (D) en las plumas de las aves migratorias puede proveer informacin importante acerca del lugar geogrfico en Norteamrica donde crecieron las plumas, o por lo menos aproximar la localizacin dentro de una banda latitudinal especfica. Esta tcnica ha aumentado considerablemente nuestra capacidad de investigar aspectos de la migracin y la ecologa de las paradas migratorias de las aves, debido a que por primera vez es posible determinar el origen de individuos no marcados en sitios de paradas migratorias. Sin embargo, pocos estudios han explorado el poder de combinar medidas de istopos con mtodos de sistemas de informacin geogrfica (SIG). En este estudio, medimos los valores de D en plumas de individuos de las especies Catharus ustulatus (n = 60), Hylocichla mustelina (n = 113) y Dumetella carolinensis (n = 158) en su ao de eclosin en la pennsula de Ft. Morgan, Alabama (3010'N, 8800'W), un sitio de paradas migratorias en la costa del Golfo. Mediante la aplicacin de un mapa base de istopos de hidrgeno corregido por la elevacin para las aves de Norteamrica y utilizando un SIG, derivamos una superficie que representa los valores de D esperados para plumas en todo el continente. Luego utilizamos el SIG para restringir los posibles orgenes de la poblacin muestreada, considerando slo los valores que cayeran dentro de los rangos de distribucin reproductiva de las especies en Norteamrica. Representamos los posibles orgenes de las aves migratorias mediante los lmites de tolerancia de los datos del 50% y del 75%. Nuestro anlisis de SIG indic que las poblaciones capturadas representaban distribuciones mucho ms reducidas con base en las distribuciones reproductivas de las aves de Norteamrica. Datos de gradientes de abundancia provenientes de la base de datos de conteos de aves reproductivas de Norteamrica nos permitieron aproximar aun ms los posibles orgenes dentro de los lmites sugeridos por los istopos para H. mustelina y D. carolinensis. Este ejercicio represent un medio para determinar regiones y hbitats prioritarios para la conservacin a una escala continental con base en la productividad real de las regiones. Sugerimos que el uso combinado de tcnicas de istopos y SIG representa un medio poderoso para determinar prioridades para la conservacin, y para investigar factores clave sobre la ecologa de la migracin y las paradas migratorias. 
40072355|We tested the potential for social selection to act as a mechanism driving rapid plumage divergence in two sympatric monarch flycatchers, the White-capped Monarch (
10.2307/1368719|Analysis of the caloric or nutritional demands of molt requires a thorough inventory of the mass and composition of all molted structures and of the ephemeral nonmolted structures (e.g., feather pulp) that accompany the process. Only plumage mass and composition are adequately known in a selection of species. We reported previously that the air-dried plumage mass of a 27-g White-crowned Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) is about 2,000 mg at the end of the postnuptial (PN) molt, during which about 400 mg of feather sheaths were grown and shed. In this report we show that the stratum corneum (air-dried mass = 88 mg) of captive Z. l. gambelii is totally shed and replaced during the PN molt, and that the podotheca (19 mg, both legs) is molted about 10 weeks later, in November. The rhamphotheca is not shed during feather molt, but appears to be renewed continuously in response to wear of the tomia. It is unlikely that the molt of the podotheca is delayed because of nutritional stringency during the PN molt, since its mass is only about 1% of the combined mass of feathers, sheaths, and stratum corneum. Very little is known in other species about the renovation of corneous structures other than feathers. It is thought that skin, beak, and claws grow continuously in response to wear, and that the skin also molts totally during feather molt. In some species, claws and parts of the beak may also be shed episodically during or near the time of feather molt. The podotheca is probably shed annually in all species, often during feather molt but sometimes earlier or later.
10.2307/1368107|We examined Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) nesting between Jones and Fire Island inlets on the barrier beach and salt marshes of the south shore of Long Island, New York during 1986 and 1987. Controversy exists in the literature over whether beaches and salt-marsh islands are traditional nesting areas offering alternative viable breeding sites for Common Terns, or whether salt marshes are suboptimal habitat into which Common Terns are largely 'forced' after loss of beach habitat. Past studies usually compared geographically distant sites, thus introducing uncertainty about the role of local climatic and food conditions in affecting reproductive variables. We tested the null hypothesis that reproductive success does not differ between habitats for colonies bordering the same estuarine system. Interyear and intercolony differences were strong, and interhabitat differences were inconsistent. Despite generally lower hatching success and generally greater nest destruction in salt marshes, tern pairs in both habitats fledged similar numbers of chicks of similar sizes and weights. Movements of birds banded on beaches and in marshes indicated that birds tended to breed in the same habitat in which they hatched, and that breeding adults were likely to nest subsequently in the same habitat.
10.2307/1368953| Three hypotheses that attempt to explain latitudinal sex ratio variation on wintering grounds are: 1) the behavioral dominance hypothesis, 2) the arrival time/sexual selection hypothesis, and 3) the body size/physiological hypothesis. Testing these hypotheses is difficult because many predictions are not mutually exclusive. By examining migratory behavior and winter distributions of House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus), a species in which females dominate males despite their smaller size, we controlled for confounding effects of body size on behavioral dominance. We examined U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service records of House Finches banded throughout the eastern United States following their introduction in 1940. These data suggest the evolution of partial migration among the introduced population of finches, with a trend in recent years (1975-1989) for females to migrate farther than males. The proportion of males on wintering grounds varied significantly and consistently with latitude in the East. Sex ratios north of 38N latitude were male-biased, while those south of this were female-biased. Similar patterns were not apparent among western House Finches during winter or in the eastern population during the breeding season. Of the three hypotheses, only the body size hypothesis correctly predicts the pattern observed among wintering finches. Therefore, different energetic constraints facing male and female House Finches, perhaps related to body size, may be influencing migratory behavior and winter distributions. 
40306122|In colonial species, it is often assumed that locations in the center of the colony are of highest quality and provide highest breeding success. We tested this prediction, known as the "central-periphery model," in a King Penguin colony in the subantarctic Crozet Archipelago. Breeding activity and survival of 150 penguins, fitted with transponder tags, were monitored over an entire breeding season. Among these 150 birds, 50 bred on the slope at the upper periphery of the colony, where the rates of predation and parasitism by ticks were high. Fifty birds bred in the center of the colony, where rates of predation and tick parasitism were low, and 50 bred at the lower end of the colony, where the rate of tick parasitism was low but predation and flooding were important risks. We predicted that the center of the colony should provide the safest breeding place and consequently be characterized by the highest breeding success and be used by the highest-quality individuals. Yet we found that penguins breeding in the center of the colony had the same breeding success as those at both peripheral locations. In addition, penguins breeding on the upper slope had a higher survival rate than penguins breeding at the center or bottom of the slope and were likely of higher quality. Our study does not support the central-periphery model and emphasizes the complexity behind the relationships among breeding site, breeding success, and individual quality.
10.2307/1366827|This study examined the occurrence and cause of supernormal clutches (SNC; 4-6 eggs) in Ring-billed (Larus delawarensis) and California (L. californicus) gulls, species that normally lay two- to three-egg clutches. In Washington and Oregon, clutches of five to six eggs constituted 0.8% of the clutches in Ring-billed Gulls (n = 20,353) and 0.1% in California Gulls (n = 6,117) during the mid-incubation period. The frequency of supernormal clutches in Ring-billed Gulls varied significantly both among colonies and years on a region-wide basis but this was not true in California Gulls. The frequency of four-egg clutches was correlated with that of five- to six-egg clutches within each species, but no correlation existed between the two species. Multi-female associations were responsible for 30% of the examined four-egg clutches (n = 20) in Ring-billed Gulls and 27% of them (n = 11) in California Gulls. All examined clutches of five or six eggs in Ring-billed Gulls (n = 11) and California Gulls (n = 1) were incubated by multi-female associations. In Ring-billed Gulls, 79% of the detected multi-female associations were female-female pairs, 16% were polygynous groups, and one was a group of three females but no males. In California Gulls, for these clutches, only female-female pairs were detected.
10.2307/1368064|We studied nest prospecting by Common Goldeneye (Bucephala clangula) females in north-central Minnesota. Adults unsuccessful in nesting, those with broods, and nonnesting yearlings were captured in nests while prospecting. Prospecting began in late May and continued into early July. Active nests received up to 25 prospecting visits per day with most visits occurring between 06:00 and 09:00 CDT. Adults appeared to prospect more (P < 0.05) in nest boxes that had contained successful nests during the current season than in those where nests were abandoned or destroyed or those that were unused. Nestbox status had no apparent effect on prospecting by yearlings. Body mass of prospecting adults that were unsuccessful nesters and yearling nonnesters was similar and was significantly less (P < 0.05) than that of females still incubating nests or those with broods. Our observations support the claim that prospecting females are preparing for the next breeding season, and we suggest that prospecting is a means of confirming information already gained during the current season. Prior knowledge of successful nest sites could explain the preferential use of previously successful nest boxes observed in a Swedish study.
10.2307/1368379|Two kinds of drinking behavior were studied by film and radiogram analysis of tip down drinking Zebra Finches (Poephila guttata) and tip up drinking Bengalese Finches (Lonchura striata) which use similar scooping tongue motions to carry water into the mouth. Water transport through the pharynx differs: the Zebra Finch uses a scooping motion of the larynx that reoccurs in every motion cycle, while the beak is kept down. The Bengalese Finch elevates the head allowing water to flow downward due to gravity and pharyngeal properistalsis. Extensive analyses show the anatomy of the species to be highly similar. The Zebra Finch is able to drink by a double scoop mechanism, because--unlike the Bengalese Finch--reflexes for glottis closure and esophageal peristalsis are used. Integration of these reflexes and a shift in timing of the larynx-scoop has modified tip up into tip down drinking. Thus, tip down is more complex than tip up drinking, since here actions from different cycles and patterns are integrated in one motion cycle. Increased kinematic complexity is, apart from any historical scenario, an argument that tip down is derived from tip up drinking in Estrildidae. An evolutionary scenario is presented in which developments of scooping anatomical elements are seen as preadaptations. These developed by selection on elements serving the highly specialized kind of feeding on seeds of Gramineae under high predator pressure in open fields, and allowed a wide secondary extension of the feeding area.
90008456|Crevice-nesting seabirds are notoriously difficult to monitor. We present a survey design and analysis that estimates both colony area and geographic extent, using indirect evidence to determine whether a cell is occupied. The approach is to define a grid of cells across potential habitat and randomly sample small plots within each cell, surveying for signs of occupancy. Visiting 1 plot cel
10.1525/cond.2012.110169|One technique for monitoring population trends of many species of migratory songbirds is to assess changes in population indices at constant-effort mist-netting stations located at sites of migration stopover. However, few studies have attempted to validate this approach. We compared long-term (19692001) population trends based on annual variation in capture rates at two banding stations located 30 km apart in southern Rhode Island, with one on the mainland, the other on an offshore island. Of 24 species with sufficient sample sizes, 21 species exhibited a significant linear decline at one or both stations. There was a high degree of conformity in trend-slope directions observed at each station. Annual fluctuations and trend magnitude conformed less well, although there was more concordance for nine transient species that do not breed in southern New England. At both stations trends were similar to those at a migration-monitoring station ~95 km away in coastal Massachusetts. The trends at this network of three migration-monitoring stations were more negative than those of Breeding Bird Surveys in northern New England and southeastern Canada. Our results demonstrate that constant-effort mist-netting stations could be used to monitor population trends of many species of migratory songbirds, although it is not clear which breeding populations are being monitored. This suggests that banding stations could be used to supplement existing large-scale monitoring programs.
10.2307/1368321|The relationship between food supply and reproductive performance was determined in a 3-year study of the American Oystercatcher, Haematopus palliatus, in Virginia. Clutch size, clutch-initiation dates, interclutch intervals, fledging success, distance to food, and quality and density of food were examined for 41 territories. Food supply varied more among territories than did clutch size, clutch-initiation dates, or interclutch intervals. Annual and interannual fledging success was extremely variable. Although no measure of food supply contributed significantly to variation in clutch size, the size of nearby feeding areas was positively correlated with average egg size and fledging success and was negatively correlated with the date of first clutch initiation. Earlier laying females had greater fledging success. Of the measures of food supply only the size of the nearby feeding area contributed significantly to variation in fledging success. Growth rates and rates of provisioning young were similar among broods of different sizes. In general, the match between food supply and reproductive performance was poor. As predation was the major cause of chick losses, I suggest that better territories for oystercatchers are those that allow parents to watch for predators of the young, and forage at the same time.
1370389| In vertebrates, enzymatic activity levels in the small intestine are correlated with dietary composition. We examined enzymatic activity levels in juvenile specimens of two flamingo species, Phoenicoparrus andinus and Phoenicoparrus jamesi. Both species feed their chicks with esophageal secretions. Based on the chemical composition of these secretions in flamingoes, we predicted low activity levels of disaccharidases and higher activities of aminopeptidase-N and esterase. As predicted, sucrase was absent in P. andinus, and its activity was low in P. jamesi. Esterase and aminopeptidase-N activities were relatively high. Low maltase activity suggested the presence of carbohydrates in esophageal secretions. Digestive features can have consequences on the growth and survival of chicks. Hence the data presented here may be relevant to the maintenance and reproduction of wild and captive endangered flamingoes. /// En vertebrados, los niveles de actividad enzimtica del intestino delgado se correlacionan con la composicin de la dieta. Nosotros examinamos los niveles de actividad enzimtica en especmenes juveniles de dos especies de flamencos, Phoenicoparrus andinus y Phoenicoparrus jamesi. Ambas especies alimentan a sus polluelos con secreciones esofageales. Basados en la composicin qumica de esas secreciones en flamencos, predijimos bajas actividades de disacaridasas y altas actividades de aminopeptidasa-N y esterasa. De acuerdo a lo esperado la actividad de sacarasa estuvo ausente en P. andinus, y su actividad fue baja en P. jamesi. La actividad de esterasa y aminopeptidasa-N fueron relativamente altas. La baja actividad de maltasa sugiere la presencia de carbohidratos en las secreciones esofageales. Las caractersticas digestivas pueden tener consecuencias sobre el crecimiento y sobrevivencia de los polluelos. As, los resultados presentados en este estudio pueden ser relevantes para la mantencin y reproduccin de flamencos silvestres y en cautiverio. 
10.1525/cond.2010.100006|The effects of climate change have been detected in numerous biological systems. Study of phenology, including the timing of bird migrations, has proven to be an effective tool for understanding the degree to which plants and animals are affected by climate change. In this study, we analyzed records of birds' arrival at Concord, Massachusetts, over 157 years, compiling the longest known record of bird-arrival dates in North America. Using records of bird arrivals by American philosopher and naturalist Henry David Thoreau for 18511854 and the well-known ornithologists William Brewster for 1886 and 19001919 and Ludlow Griscom for 19301931 and 19331954, we examined whether birds are shifting their arrival times in response to a warming climate. Concord resident Rosita Corey provided a set of recent observations for the years 19561973 and 19882007. When we considered all 22 species of migratory songbirds we analyzed together, we found no average change in arrival date over time, though when we analyzed each species separately, we found that three species are arriving significantly earlier and four species are arriving later. The arrival dates of eight species are significantly correlated with temperature, seven of these species arriving earlier during warmer years. At Concord in general, birds' arrival times are apparently less responsive to temperature than are plants' flowering times, a disparity that has the potential to lead to ecological mismatches in this ecosystem. This study demonstrates the challenges of using nontraditional natural-history data in climate-change research.
4096480| We studied Creamy-bellied Thrush (Turdus amaurochalinus) defenses against brood parasitism by Shiny Cowbirds (Molothrus bonariensis). Shiny Cowbirds decrease the reproductive success of Creamy-bellied Thrushes, and having historical habitats and ranges that overlap, we expected that thrushes possess antiparasitic defenses. We analyzed nest attendance during prelaying, laying and incubation; responses to the presentation of a model of a female cowbird or a control species close to the nest; nest abandonment associated with parasitism; and responses to experimental parasitism with white or spotted cowbird eggs (with or without the simultaneous presentation of a female cowbird model). Nest attendance was 58%-68% during prelaying and 83%-90% during laying and incubation. Thrushes had a shorter latency in returning near the nest and visited nests more frequently when we presented the cowbird model than the control model. The frequency of abandonment of parasitized nests was low and was not temporally associated with parasitism. Thrushes ejected white eggs more frequently than spotted eggs when parasitism was associated with the presentation of the cowbird model, but there were no differences when the model was absent. Our results indicate that Creamy-bellied Thrushes recognize cowbirds as a threat and eject white but not spotted cowbird eggs. We postulate that the low impact of cowbird parasitism on thrush hatching success and chick survival and the likelihood of recognition errors when parasite eggs resemble host eggs may have prevented the evolution of egg ejection in this host. /// Se estudiaron las defensas de Turdus amaurochalinus contra el parasitismo de cra de Molothrus bonariensis. M. bonariensis reduce el xito reproductivo de T. maurochalinus y estas especies tienen hbitats y distribuciones histricas que se superponen, por lo que esperabamos que T. amaurochalinus posea defensas antiparasitarias. Analizamos la atencin del nido durante los estadios de prepuesta, puesta e incubacin; las respuestas ante la presentacin de un modelo de hembra de M. bonariensis o de una especie control; el abandono de nidos en asociacin con el parasitismo; y las respuestas ante el parasitismo experimental con huevos blancos y manchados de M. bonariensis (con o sin la presentacin simultanea de un modelo de hembra de M. bonariensis). La atencin del nido fue 58%-68% durante la prepuesta y 83%-90% durante la puesta e incubacin. T. amaurochalinus tuvo una latencia menor en retornar cerca del nido y visit el nido ms frecuentemente cuando presentamos el modelo de M. bonariensis que con el modelo control. La frecuencia de abandono de nidos parasitados fue baja y no estuvo asociada temporalmente con el parasitismo. T. amaurochalinus rechaz ms frecuentemente huevos de M. bonariensis blancos que manchados cuando el parasitismo estuvo asociado a la presentacin del modelo de M. bonariensis, pero la frecuencia de rechazo no difiri cuando el modelo estuvo ausente. Nuestros resultados indican que T. amaurochalinus reconoce a M. bonariensis como una amenaza y rechaza huevos blancos pero no manchados. Postulamos que el bajo impacto del parasitismo de M. bonariensis sobre el xito de eclosin y la supervivencia de pichones de T. amaurochalinus y la mayor probabilidad de errores de reconocimiento cuando los huevos parsitos se parecen a los del hospedador pudo haber prevenido la evolucin del rechazo de huevos en este hospedador. 
40072364|We show that free-ranging Laughing Kookaburras (
10.1525/cond.2010.090146|The activation and maintenance of the immune system demand a cost of nutrition and energy, and this demand may result in a trade-off with other energetically demanding activities. To test for such a trade-off, in the cerrado of central Brazil, we compared the immune profile and body condition of the resident Plain-crested Elaenia (
10.1525/cond.2009.090142|A phenomenon currently not well understood is the reproduction of some species in clustered territories. We evaluated two ecological hypotheses (material-resources and predation hypotheses) that could explain cluster formation during reproduction of the Blue-black Grassquit (
10.2307/1369952|Migratory flights of Marsh Harriers (Circus aeruginosus), Montagu's Harriers (Circus pygargus) and Pallid Harriers (Circus macrourus) in southern Israel were used to test flight theory predictions. The body sizes of these closely related species are between those of the typical large soaring migrants, such as eagles and storks, and the typical flapping migrants, such as small falcons and sparrowhawks. In soaring-gliding flight, Marsh Harriers reacted to different thermal conditions by adjusting their gliding airspeed to the actual climbing rate in thermal circling; consequently, cross-country speed was related to climbing rate. In contrast, the smaller Montagu's and Pallid Harriers did not adopt gliding airspeeds according to thermal conditions. All harrier species regularly used flapping-gliding flight, predominately soon after sunrise and before sunset, and more often in opposing winds than in following winds. Montagu's/Pallid Harriers used flapping-gliding more frequently than Marsh Harriers. Because they alternate between different flight styles, harriers are more independent of environmental factors, such as thermal activity and wind, compared to pure soaring migrants. This allows harriers to migrate under unfavorable thermal and wind conditions. Marsh Harriers are similar to typical soaring migrants in maximizing cross-country speed in soaring-gliding flight, whereas Montagu's and Pallid Harriers are less adapted to soaring-gliding flight and thus are similar to smaller flapping migrants. Optimal soaring-gliding flight seems to be less relevant for these smaller harriers; they maximize cross-country performance by efficiently combining different flight styles.
3247768| We hypothesized that nest attendance characteristics in Common Goldeneyes (Bucephala clangula) at the northern limit of their range differ from those of more southern populations. In 2002 and 2003, we used artificial eggs containing temperature-sensing data loggers to obtain nest attendance data from 20 incubating females over 515 days. On average ( SE), each female spent 79.8  0.3% of the day on the nest, and took 2.9  0.1 recesses per day. each averaging 100.7  1.5 minutes. These recess characteristics were comparable to those reported for other Common Goldeneye populations. Most recesses (88%) occurred between 09:00 and 22:00 Alaskan Daylight Time although recesses were initiated at all times of day. Female incubation behavior does not appear to be strongly influenced by coarse-level environmental variables or the female-specific variables that we measured, but could be related to a complex assortment of fine-scale environmental or endogenous factors. /// Hipotetizamos que las caractersticas de permanencia en el nido por parte de Bucephala clangula en el lmite norte de su distribucin difieren de aquellas de poblaciones ms meridionales. A travs de 515 das en 2002 y 2003, empleamos huevos artificiales que contenan medidores automticos de temperatura para obtener datos sobre la permanencia en los nidos por parte de 20 hembras que estaban incubando. En promedio (EE), las hembras pasaron el 79.8%  0.3% del da en el nido y tomaron 2.9  0.1 descansos de 100.7  1.5 minutos de duracin diariamente. Estas caractersticas de descanso fueron comparables a las documentadas para otras poblaciones de B. clangula. La mayora de los descansos (88%) se presentaron entre las 09:00 y 22:00, aunque las aves descansaron a toda hora del da. El comportamiento de incubacin de las hembras no parece estar fuertemente influenciado por las variables ambientales que medimos a un nivel general, ni por variables especficas de las hembras, pero podra estar relacionado con una combinacin compleja de factores ambientales a pequea escala o por factores endgenos. 
3247750| We compared sequences from two mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes (ND2, ND3) in Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis; n = 112) sampled from Baja California (five sites), coastal Sonora and the continental range (eight sites). Populations from Baja California, San Diego and Sonora formed a clade within which there was no phylogeographic structure; this clade merits species status (Passerculus rostratus). The other clade, consisting of phenotypically "typical" savannah sparrows, should be classified as P. sandwichensis. Among the typical sparrows, there was no phylogeographic structure, although two major clades were discovered. Representatives of each of the two main clades occurred at most sampling localities, excluding Suisan Bay, California and Sable Island, Nova Scotia, Canada. Haplotypes found on Sable Island, representing the "Ipswich Sparrow," were not distinctive, thereby failing to support species status for this taxon. On Isla San Benito, a single haplotype was found, which also occurred in other Mexican localities. The results for Sable Island and Isla San Benito show that size and plumage coloration can evolve rapidly. /// En este estudio comparamos secuencias de dos genes mitocondriales (ND2 y ND3) entre individuos de la especie Passerculus sandwichensis (n = 112) muestreados en Baja California (5 sitios), la costa de Sonora y el rango de distribucin continental (8 sitios). Las poblaciones de Baja California, San Diego y Sonora formaron un clado, al interior del cual no existi estructura filogeogrfica; este clado merece estatus de especie (Passerculus rostratus). El otro clado, conformado por individuos fenotpicamente "tpicos", debe clasificarse como P. sandwichensis. Entre los individuos tpicos no existi estructura filogeogrfica, aunque se descubrieron dos clados principales. Individuos representativos de cada uno de estos dos clados se encontraron en la mayora de las localidades, excepto Suisan Bay, California y Sable Island, Nova Scotia. Los haplotipos encontrados en Sable Island, correspondientes al "gorrin de Ipswich" no fueron distintivos, lo que no apoya el estatus de especie para este taxn. En Isla San Benito se encontr un solo halpotipo, el cual tambin se encontraba en otras localidades mexicanas. Los resultados de Sable Island e Isla San Benito muestran que el tamao y la coloracin del plumaje pueden evolucionar rpidamente. 
10.2307/1367749|An 11-year study of the Maguari Stork (Ciconia maguari) in the llanos (flatlands) of Venezuela is reported. Stork behaviors are described in the following contexts: arrival flocks, roosting, pre-nesting social assemblies, nest site choice, nest building, copulation, nestling care and defense, adult feeding, sun and water bathing. The storks nested in bushes and short trees. Nesting was both colonial and solitary, and nest defense behaviors varied accordingly from mobbing to distraction display. Nesting success during three years was greater for colonial nesters (67%) than for solitary nesters (42%).
90008458|A goal in avian ecology is to understand factors that influence differences in nesting habitat and distribution among species, especially within changing landscapes. Over the past 2 decades, humans have altered sagebrush ecosystems as a result of expansion in energy production and transmission. Our primary study objective was to identify differences in the use of landscape characteristics and natural and anthropogenic features by nesting Common Ravens (
10.2307/1368692|Chicks of two races of California Gull (Larus californicus), which differ by 27% in adult body mass, grew to fledging at similar rates when maintained in a common environment and provided with food ad libitum. There were sexual differences in growth rates; males, which were larger, developed more slowly than females. Racial differences in size were maintained, but appeared to be smaller in captive adults and juveniles than in wild birds, indicating that both genetic and environmental components influence body size; racial differences in plumage were maintained and seemed to be under genetic control. Growth patterns and asymptotic size of captives differed from those reported for wild birds, reflecting both captivity effects and procedural bias in determining asymptotes in field studies.
90008440|Marbled Godwits (
10.1525/cond.2011.100207|Whereas the ecological and evolutionary causes and consequences of sexual dimorphism in birds have been widely explored, the functional significance of female ornamentation in mutually ornamented species is less well understood. One hypothesis for mutual ornamentation is mutual sexual selection, where similar selective pressures shape the ornamental traits in both sexes. We examined multiple melanin-based plumage traits (chestnut-colored breast plumage, tail-spot size and damage) in male and female American Robins (
10.2307/1368872|In free-living House Sparrows, Passer domesticus, resident in central New York, gonadal development is initiated in the autumn and continues throughout the winter months. Partial recrudescence in the early autumn is associated with transient increases in circulating levels of luteinizing hormone, dihydrotestosterone, and testosterone in both sexes. In females, concentrations of estradiol also increase at this time. There are no seasonal changes in body mass in males, but females are heavier in late autumn and early winter. In both sexes, fat depots and concentrations of corticosterone increase by winter and decrease again by early spring. Autumnal gonadal recrudescence is associated with the initiation of social competition for nesting sites and mates. Adults return to nest sites, rates of intrusion by conspecifics increase, and agonistic interactions are more frequent. Darkening of the male beak, an androgen-dependent secondary sex characteristic, occurs rapidly in the autumn, perhaps in response to social competition. In contrast, development of the cloacal protuberance, also dependent on androgens, does not occur until later in the winter. House Sparrows that initiate nesting early in the spring produce more fledglings during the entire season than do pairs that begin later. Hence, acquisition of a nesting site in the autumn may allow earlier nesting and consequently greater reproductive output during the ensuing nesting season.
4151082| In two contrasting breeding seasons, we investigated the effects of provisioning on chick growth and survival of the Magnificent Frigatebird (Fregata magnificens), a socially monogamous, dimorphic seabird that rears a single chick for more than a year, shows specialized feeding techniques, and depends on unpredictable food sources. We hypothesized that chicks of this seabird would increase their chances of survival by varying their growth in relation to food availability. We estimated the amount of food ingested by a chick using electronic scales placed at the nest and recorded feeding rates, growth rate, fledging size, and fledging age. Body mass and bill and ulna lengths were also measured. Not surprisingly, provisioning and growth were higher in the year with apparently higher food availability; however, developmental variables did not show the same pattern. This work shows a clear relationship between provisioning and growth and that growth variability occurs in this species. Understanding the relationship between provisioning and growth provides insight into life histories and elucidates the influence of variation in provisioning on fitness. /// Investigamos el efecto del aprovisionamiento en dos temporadas contrastantes en el crecimiento y supervivencia de la cra de Fregata magnificens, un ave marina dimrfica socialmente mongama, que cuida una sola cra por ms de un ao, que tiene tcnicas de alimentacin especializadas y que depende de fuentes de alimentacin impredecibles. Establecimos la hiptesis de que en esta ave marina las cras pueden incrementar su probabilidad de supervivencia variando su crecimiento en relacin con la disponibilidad de alimento. Estimamos la cantidad de alimento ingerida por la cra usando una bscula electrnica ubicada en el nido y registramos la tasa de alimentacin, tasa dec recimiento, edad y tamao al abandonar el nido. Tambin medimos la masa corporal y la longitud del pico y la ulna. Como era de esperarse, el aprovisionamiento y el crecimiento fueron mayores en el ao que aparentemente hubo mayor disponibilidad de alimento. Sin embargo, las variables de desarrollo no mostraron el mismo patrn. Este trabajo muestra una clara relacin entre el aprovisionamiento y el crecimiento, y demuestra que existe variacin en el crecimiento de esta especie. Comprender la relacin entre el aprovisionamiento y el crecimiento nos permite conocer mejor las historias de vida y entender cmo la variacin en el aprovisionamiento influye en la adecuacin biolgica. 
90008449|Professional societies of biologists, including ornithological societies, have struggled to determine the appropriate way to apply the expertise of their memberships in conservation, largely because of a tension between issue advocacy and pure science. Within societies, some argue for using science to promote conservation, and others worry that such advocacy will render the science less credible in the eyes of decisionmakers. This debate excludes other important applications of science in conservation. We outline a vision for an expanded role of ornithological societies in avian conservation that includes pure science and emphasizes one of these other applications, science arbitration. Science arbitration involves evaluating the science relevant to an issue and providing the results to decisionmakers without taking a position on the outcome. We perceive a great need for science arbitration as judges, politicians, and other decisionmakers typically lack access to current, relevant scientific information in an objective form and as a result must act as their own arbiters despite a lack of appropriate expertise. The ornithological societies are in a unique position to fill this void in the area of avian conservation. We describe an additional role in which the societies may also wish to engage, Honest Broker, which is similar to Science Arbiter but also includes development of policy alternatives based on the science evaluated. We provide examples of the kinds of activities in which we envision the societies engaging, and outline a process for approaching science arbitration as the scholarly activity it should be.
10.2307/1368671|Aviary experiments demonstrated that three North American frugivorous migrant bird species often exhibit color preferences, when factors such as taste, nutrition, and accessibility to food sources are equal. Individual birds differed in initial color preferences, transitivity, and temporal stability of color preferences. There was little tendency of these birds to favor red and black, which are the most common colors of fruits of bird-dispersed plants, and a weak tendency to reject yellow. We suggest that avian color preferences may not provide strong selection favoring the evolution of the common fruit colors, and that the frequency distribution of fruit hues is best explained in other ways.
10.2307/1369425|The habitat and diet of Emperor Goose (Chen canagica) goslings were studied on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska in 1985 and 1986. We studied diet selection and nutrient content of potential food plants to determine whether Emperor Goose goslings selected food plants to increase nutrient intake. Broods moved from inland nest sites to coastal salt marsh within one week of hatching. This movement resulted in abandonment of areas that contained high densities of Triglochin palustris, a food that was selected in a feeding trial. Wild goslings selected vegetated mudflats in coastal salt marsh, spending 80-82% of their feeding time there, although mudflats covered only 5% of the study area. The relative densities of Puccinellia phryganodes and Carex subspathacea, the two mudflat plant species available on a feeding trial plot, changed over the two years of the study, with P. phryganodes increasing from 65% in 1985 to 84% in 1986. Captive goslings selected C. subspathacea more often than P. phryganodes in 1985, but ate primarily P. phryganodes in 1986. Triglochin palustris was significantly higher in total nitrogen and water content and lower in cell wall content than other available species, but productivity and nutrient value of P. phryganodes and C. subspathacea might increase with grazing. Emperor Geese may leave areas where T. palustris is available to avoid predation or competition. By feeding repeatedly on coastal mudflats goslings are likely to find recently fertilized, nitrogen-rich plant food in a habitat providing refuge from predators.
10.2307/1367941|I studied the social organization of the Band-tailed Manakin (Pipra fasciicauda) for 6.5 months in 1980 in undisturbed, lowland rain forest of southeastern Peru. Dominant males maintained closely-packed territories at localized sites in seasonally flooded forest. Within each territory, an alpha male, usually a beta male, and occasionally one or more non-territorial adult males performed complex, coordinated displays for attracting and exciting females. Alpha males were extremely sedentary, spending almost the entire day on territory. Beta males were less sedentary and visited with other alpha males at the lek. Alpha males encouraged all visiting conspecifics, except contiguous territorial owners, to join them in display. Territorial males showed no interspecific territoriality, except toward other lekking piprids. Once a female was attracted to a territory, only the alpha male actively courted her, while the subordinate male(s) observed from the adjacent vegetation. All disruptions of an alpha male courting a female were by subordinates associated with the territory. Beta males occupied the dominant position in both instances where there was a change in territorial ownership. Two types of acquisition of the alpha position were involved: (1) an alpha male was displaced by the beta male; and, (2) a beta male inherited ownership when the alpha male disappeared.
1370040| We studied individual variation in song characteristics of the Spotted Antbird (Hylophylax naevioides), a Neotropical suboscine, and tested for song discrimination using playback of male neighbors and strangers. Discriminant analysis of four frequency and temporal characteristics of the songs of 25 male and five female Spotted Antbirds revealed significant differences among individuals. Each song was assigned correctly to the individual that produced it with over 70% accuracy. However, during field playback, male Spotted Antbirds did not discriminate between neighbor and stranger song. Our results suggest that selection has not favored the evolution of neighbor-stranger discrimination, perhaps because all conspecific intruders pose a threat. The temporal characteristics of Spotted Antbird songs differed significantly between the sexes, but frequency characteristics did not. Females responded significantly less strongly to male playback than males, suggesting that each sex plays a distinct role in territorial defense. /// Estudiamos la variacin individual de las caractersticas del canto de Hylophylax naevioides, un suboscino neotropical y evaluamos si esta especie responde de forma diferente al playback de individuos vecinos o desconocidos. Un anlisis discriminante de cuatro caractersticas temporales y espectrales del canto de 25 machos y cinco hembras de H. naevioides revel que existan diferencias significativas entre individuos. Cada canto fue asignado correctamente al individuo que lo produjo en ms del 70% de los casos. Sin embargo, en un experimento de playback en el campo los machos no distiguieron entre el canto de inidividuos vecinos y desconocidos. Estos resultados sugieren que la seleccin no ha favorecido la evolucin de la discriminacin entre vecinos y desconocidos porque todos los intrusos coespecficos suponen una amenaza. Las caractersticas temporales, pero no las espectrales, del canto de los H. naevioides difirieron significativamente entre ambos sexos. Las hembras respondieron significativamente menos que los machos al playback con cantos de machos, lo que sugiere que cada sexo desempea un papel diferente en la defensa del territorio. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100061|The decline of House Sparrow (
10.2307/1367557|Migration of Spruce Grouse was observed in southwestern Alberta from 1970 to 1975 in a population of grouse that included both migratory and resident birds. Migrants comprised 39% of this population; these individuals migrated each year regardless of weather conditions. Migration occurred from mid-February to late May and from early September to mid-December. More females than males were migratory and females migrated longer distances. Distance between breeding and wintering sites ranged from 0.5 to 9.5 km. Survival and reproductive success was similar for migrant and resident grouse during the study. Migration was generally related to the dispersal history of birds as yearlings. Yearlings that dispersed in spring tended to establish migratory patterns by returning to winter sites used as juveniles. Why these birds did not remain on summer areas for the winter, as did resident Spruce Grouse, is uncertain. The quality of winter habitat may be an important factor in establishment of migration; further investigation is required to determine the qualitative aspects of the breeding and wintering habitat of Spruce Grouse.
1369837| As swarms of the army ant Eciton burchelli forage across forest floors of the lowland Neotropics, birds gather to eat arthropods flushed by the advancing ants. Past efforts to distinguish members of the obligate ant-following bird guild from the many species that forage opportunistically with army ants have been inadequate. Obligate ant-followers track the locations of multiple nomadic ant colonies in order to maintain a consistent food supply. Each morning, they visit the bivouac site of each colony they are monitoring to assess the ants' activity. Only species dependent upon foraging with army ants exhibit this specialized bivouac checking behavior. This paper proposes a new method for distinguishing between obligate and opportunistic ant-following birds by observing which species check bivouacs. /// Cuando enjambres de la hormiga ejrcito Eciton burchelli forrajean en los suelos de los bosques bajos Neotropicales, algunas aves se aglomeran para ingerir artrpodos espantados por las hormigas que avanzan. Esfuerzos pasados para distinguir entre aquellos miembros del gremio de aves que rastrean las hormigas obligatoriamente de las muchas especies que forrajean de manera oportunista con hormigas ejrcito han sido inadecuados. Seguidores obligatorios de las hormigas rastrean los sitios de varias colonias nmadas de hormigas a fin de mantener un suministro consistente de alimentos. Cada maana, estas aves visitan el sitio de vivaque de cada una de las colonias que controlan con fin de evaluar las actividades de las hormigas. Slo aquellas especies que dependen del forrajeo de las hormigas ejrcito manifiestan este comportamiento especializado de verificar los vivaques. Este artculo propone un nuevo mtodo para distinguir entre las aves oportunistas y las aves obligatorias rastreadoras de hormigas mediante la observacin de aquellas especies que verifican los vivaques. 
10.2307/1370269| We collected hydroacoustic and bird-observation data simultaneously along transects in three areas in Prince William Sound, Alaska, 21 July-11 August 1995. The probability of the association of fish schools with Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) and Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) was determined through the use of resource selection functions based on logistic regression. Mean ( SD) group sizes were small for both species, 1.7  1.1 and 1.2  0.7 for Marbled Murrelets and Tufted Puffins, respectively. Oceanographically, all study areas were stratified with synchronous thermo- and pycnoclines (a water layer of increasing temperature and density, respectively, with increasing depth). Our analysis indicated that Tufted Puffins selected fish schools near their colony, whereas Marbled Murrelets selected smaller, denser fish schools in shallower habitats. We suggest that murrelets selected shallower habitats in response to lower maximum diving depths than puffins. Small feeding-groups size is discussed in terms of foraging theory and as a consequence of dispersed, low density food resources. 
4151093|We report two new late Pleistocene avifaunas from New Mexico, recovered from Sandia Cave during archaeological excavations by F. Hibben in the 1930s and the nearby Marmot Cave excavated in 2000. The fossil assemblage from Sandia Cave consists of at least 30 taxa, including seven extralimital and two extinct species, Coragyps occidentalis (extinct vulture) and Ectopistes migratorius (Passenger Pigeon). The avifauna from Marmot Cave is limited to eight taxa shared with Sandia Cave. Two new records of Gymnogyps californianus (California Condor) are reported from these sites, as well as new records of hagopus sp. (ptarmigan), Aegolius funereus (Boreal Owl), and Micrathene whitneyi (Elf Owl) from New Mexico. Two new radiocarbon dates on fossil G. californianus from Sandia and Marmot cave are reported at
10.2307/1370087|In French Guiana, a territorial group of Gray-winged Trumpeters (Psophia crepitans) laid three eggs in a cavity atop a Voucapoua vouacapoua snag, 13.5 m up. At least two individuals alternated incubation, as in White-winged Trumpeters P. leucoptera in Peru. One egg had a dead embryo, and the two nidifugous chicks disappeared in their first week. Some previous field records of nests or eggs are probably incorrect.
10.1525/cond.2012.120012|The geographic range of the Long-tailed Antbird (
4122517|The Semipalmated Plover (Charadrius semipalmatus), an arctic-nesting migratory shorebird, regularly encounters low temperatures during the breeding season. We measured the basal metabolism of adults during incubation at Churchill, Manitoba, Canada to determine basal metabolic rate (BMR), lower critical temperature (
40072467|A great deal of research has been devoted to the study of the Spotted Owl (
10.2307/1368527|The volume of male eggs in Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) was slightly larger than that of female eggs in every year of a 5-year study. The volume difference was highly significant (P < 0.01) when data for all years were combined. Male nestlings also grew faster than female siblings. Natural history observations on adults suggest that reproductive success is more variable in male than in female White-crowned Sparrows. Taken together, these data are consistent with facultative manipulation of offspring sex as proposed under the Trivers and Willard hypothesis (1973). In avian species it may be necessary when testing this hypothesis to consider the relationship between sex and parental investment for individual offspring rather than focusing solely on differences between broods.
10.2307/1368068|This study documents flock size in mixed-species parrot/parakeet flocks in tropical dry forest of Costa Rica. Variability in flock size was quantified on a diurnal basis, between nesting and nonnesting periods, and during departures from roost sites in the early morning. Flock size was greater when animals were congregating near the roost site near dusk than during the rest of the day or when the birds were departing the roost. Flocks were smallest in the first half of the dry season when they are reported to nest. Three hypotheses (Information Center [IC], Diurnal Activity Center [DAC], and a general foraging hypothesis) all make predictions relating the size of specific types of flocks to the density and distribution of food resources. As predicted, by the foraging hypothesis, diurnal flock size was positively related to the density of potential fruit resources, and flocks were largest when resources were uniformly distributed. However, contrary to predictions of the IC and DAC hypotheses, roosting flock size was not related to the density and distribution of food resources. The size of flocks departing roost sites in the morning was small, and evidence suggested that these flocks may have been avoiding following the flocks that left previously.
10.2307/1370498|The genome size and sex of the Egyptian Vulture (Neophron percnopterus), a sexually monomorphic bird, were identified from blood samples by the use of flow cytometry (FCM). This technique allowed evaluation of the slightly higher amount of DNA content in the homogametic male compared to that of the heterogametic female. A karyotypic analysis also was performed in order to confirm the FCM results. Sex identification by both FCM and cytogenetic analyses was concordant in all cases. The average DNA content was estimated to be 5.6% higher in males than in females.
1370524| In White-backed Mousebirds (Colius colius), clustering is an important component of rest-phase thermoregulation, particularly at low air temperature. We tested predictions concerning thermoregulation under natural conditions by recording rest-phase body temperature in a flock of free-ranging White-backed Mousebirds in an arid habitat during winter in the Karoo, South Africa. We found that the mouse-birds' rest-phase body temperature was relatively labile, but was generally maintained above 32C, despite air temperatures as low as -3.4C. Patterns of rest-phase body temperature were highly synchronized among individuals within the cluster. The mousebirds showed no evidence of torpor under natural conditions; a shallow departure from normothermy, during which body temperature was reduced to 29-33C, was observed on only one occasion. The observed patterns of thermoregulation supported our predictions, and confirm that thermoregulation in clustering White-backed Mousebirds in the wild is significantly different from that of single birds under laboratory conditions. /// En Colius colius, la agregacin es un componente importante de la termorregulacin en la fase de reposo, particularmente a temperaturas bajas del aire. Examinamos predicciones relacionadas con la termorregulacin en condiciones naturales registrando la temperatura corporal en la fase de reposo en una bandada de individuos de C. colius que se desplazan libremente durante el invierno en un ambiente rido en el Karoo, Sudfrica. Encontramos que la temperatura corporal de la fase de reposo de C. colius fue relativamente lbil, pero fue mantenida generalmente por arriba de los 32C, a pesar de temperaturas del aire tan bajas como -3.4C. Los patrones de temperatura corporal de la fase de reposo estuvieron altamente sincronizados entre individuos dentro del agrupamiento. C. colius no mostr evidencia de torpor bajo condiciones naturales. En una nica ocasin se observ un pequeo desvo de la normotermia, durante la cual la temperatura corporal fue reducida a 29-33C. Los patrones de termorregulacin observados apoyaron neustras predicciones y confirmaron que la termorregulacin en agrupamientos silvestres de C. colius es significativamente diferente de la de aves solitarias bajo condiciones de laboratorio. 
10.2307/1369138| Dolphin Gulls (Larus [Leucophaeus] scoresbii) at Punta Tombo, Argentina, aggregated in small colonies of 16-24 pairs to breed. Colony location varied among years. Nesting density was 1.02 to 1.6 pairs/m<sup>2</sup>. Mean clutch size was 1.9 and 2.0 in 1987 and 1989, respectively, and egg volume was similar among years. Incubation took between 24 and 27 days, with chicks hatching from mid to late December. When chicks were two to five days old they followed their parents away from the nesting area and, as they grew older, they began crching in one or more groups. Egg mortality in 1987 and 1989 was 41% and 46%, respectively, mainly through disappearance and presumed predation. Breeding success from 1984 to 1990 was variable, ranging from complete failure to 0.86 chicks surviving to three weeks of age per active nest. After nest losses in 1986 and 1990 birds renested. During the breeding season Dolphin Gulls were specialized scavengers, mainly eating southern sea lion (Otaria flavescens) excrement and scraps of food dropped when Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) and Imperial Cormorants (Phalacrocorax atriceps) fed their chicks. Dolphin Gulls also fed in the intertidal zone, stole cormorant and Kelp Gull (Larus dominicanus) eggs, and scavenged remains of penguin eggs already preyed upon by other species. They nested with other species and left the breeding area in February after the chicks fledged. They did not return to the breeding area in any numbers until September. The breeding biology of the Dolphin Gull appears to be largely influenced by their specialized scavenging habits and vulnerability to predation. 
10.2307/1368814|Aggressive behavior of feeding American Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) was observed to determine asymmetries associated with contest outcomes. The size difference between male and female flamingos appeared to be the primary determinant of contest roles in two-bird interactions, but contest intensity increased with a reduction in the relative difference in size of the contestants. Multiple bird interactions (i.e., >2) were never initiated by more than two birds, and all identifiable age and sex classes were represented among birds winning and initiating interactions. The large number of adult male-adult female groups involved in multiple bird interactions suggests that some degree of pair bonding had occurred and that mate competition may also be occurring in aggressive interactions in foraging aggregations.
10.2307/1366822|At hatching, male and female Boat-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus major) are similar in size. By day 12, just before fledging, they differ in manus and tarsal lengths, tarsal thickness, and weight, but not in culmen, primary remex 7, and tail lengths. Male and female nestlings attain asymptotic weights of 102.4 g and 65.6 g, respectively, at a rate faster than predicted from the general passerine pattern. Furthermore, these asymptotes are only 54.8% and 65.3%, respectively, of adult weight. The combination of a faster growth rate and an asymptote below adult size means that grackles fledge sooner than would be expected for the general passerine pattern. Clutches of three eggs hatch asynchronously; the hatching of the third chick does not decrease growth rates of the early-hatching chicks. Third-hatched young fledge at weights significantly below those of early-hatching young. Compared to males hatching from the first or second egg, males from the third egg require several more days to attain sizes larger than females.
10.2307/1369798|We studied mixed-species insectivorous bird flocks in pine-oak forests in Middle America during three winter seasons to determine whether patterns of flock structure and dynamics were similar to those reported from other tropical sites. We also analyzed patterns of association among bird species, as well as their foraging behavior and the vegetation characteristics associated with birds in flocks. We encountered 333 flocks containing 144 species, of which 26 species had adequate sample sizes for analyses. The size and rate of movement of the flocks were similar to those reported from other Neotropical sites, however, the species richness of our flocks was lower than reported in most other studies, perhaps due to simpler vegetation structure or higher latitude. Only 3 of 50 significant correlations between species pairs were negative, indicating that species generally were not restricted in their participation in mixed-species flocks by other species. In only one instance did we observe correspondence between the association of species-pairs in flocks and their foraging behavior. For most species there was no relationship between association between species-pairs in flocks and vegetation parameters with which they were associated. Thus, additional factors besides foraging facilitation and mutual association with particular vegetation characteristics must be responsible for many of the positive correlations among species pairs. We suggest that non-random association among species within flocks may result in part from enhanced vigilance for predator detection afforded by flock members using similar parts of the environment at the same time.
10.2307/1368734|From 1985-1987 we located 15 Eastern Screech-Owl (Otus asio) nests in central Kentucky. By comparing used nest sites to randomly chosen unused nest sites, we determined which features of the nest tree/cavity and surrounding vegetation influenced nest-site selection. We employed multivariate statistical techniques and assumed that features contributed to choice if their means differed significantly in the two samples, or if the used sample exhibited significantly reduced variance. Eastern Screech-Owls selected nest sites based on the depth of the cavity and, to a lesser degree, cavity height and entrance size. Neither tree species nor entrance orientation (direction) of the cavity hole were important in nest selection. Similarly, nest-site vegetation parameters appeared to play little role in nest-site selection. If suitable cavities are limited in supply, and cavities with nonoptimal characteristics reduce protection from predators and decrease reproductive success, then the availability of suitable cavities may limit Eastern Screech-Owl populations.
1370677| We studied food habits of Gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus) nesting in central west Greenland in 2000 and 2001 using three sources of data: time-lapse video (3 nests), prey remains (22 nests), and regurgitated pellets (19 nests). These sources provided different information describing the diet during the nesting period. Gyrfalcons relied heavily on Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) and arctic hares (Lepus arcticus). Combined, these species contributed 79-91% of the total diet, depending on the data used. Passerines were the third most important group. Prey less common in the diet included waterfowl, arctic fox pups (Alopex lagopus), shorebirds, gulls, alcids, and falcons. All Rock Ptarmigan were adults, and all but one arctic hare were young of the year. Most passerines were fledglings. We observed two diet shifts, first from a preponderance of ptarmigan to hares in mid-June, and second to passerines in late June. The video-monitored Gyrfalcons consumed 94-110 kg of food per nest during the nestling period, higher than previously estimated. Using a combination of video, prey remains, and pellets was important to accurately document Gyrfalcon diet, and we strongly recommend using time-lapse video in future diet studies to identify biases in prey remains and pellet data. /// Estudiamos los hbitos alimenticios de Falco rusticolus durante la poca de nidificacin en el centro-oeste de Groenlandia durante los aos 2000 y 2001. Utilizamos tres fuentes de datos: registros en lapsos de tiempo con cmaras de video (nidos en los rboles), restos de presas (22 nidos) y egagrpilas (19 nidos). Esto permiti describir la dieta durante el perodo de nidificacin con base en la informacin diferente provista por cada fuente. F. rusticolus dependi fuertemente de las presas Lagopus mutus y Lepus arcticus. En forma combinada, estas dos especies contribuyeron en un 79-91% de la dieta total, dependiendo de los datos utilizados para el anlisis. Las aves paserinas fueron el tercer grupo ms importante. Las presas menos comunes presentes en la dieta fueron aves acuticas, cachorros de zorro (Alopex lagopus), aves playeras, gaviotas, lcidos y halcones. Todos los individuos de L. mutus fueron adultos y todos excepto un individuo de L. arcticus fueron juveniles nacidos ese mismo ao. La mayora de las aves paserinas fueron volantones. Observamos dos cambios en la dieta, primero de preponderancia de L. mutus a L. articus a mediados de junio, y el segundo a aves paserinas a fines de junio. Los individuos monitoreados con cmaras de video consumieron 94-110 kg de alimento por nido durante el perodo con polluelos, una cantidad mayor a la estimada previamente. La utilizacin combinada de registros de cmaras de video, restos de presas y egagrpilas fue importante para documentar la dieta de F. rusticolus con precisin, y recomendamos fuertemente utilizar cmaras de video con registros intermitentes en estudios futuros sobre la dieta para poder identificar los sesgos en los datos obtenidos a partir de restos de presas y egagrpilas. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110103|Microorganisms are known to play an important role in shaping the life histories of animals. Recent studies have proposed that the coloration of birds' plumage could reflect individual quality through associations with feather-degrading bacteria. However, few studies have explored such relationships. We studied breeding female Great Tits (
1370100| We estimated age-specific survival (), fecundity (b), and the finite rate of population change () of California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) over a 10-year period (1990-1999). Two hundred nineteen juvenile and 200 subadult or adult owls were banded at 90 sites, with a combined total of 1080 captures. Least-squares mean estimates ( SE) of fecundity (# female fledglings per territorial female) over all years were 0.065  0.066 for subadults (n = 33) and 0.291  0.065 for adults (n = 381). Estimated annual apparent survival probability was 0.333  0.055 for juveniles and 0.827  0.015 for subadults and adults combined. Using these estimates to construct a four-stage projection matrix, the finite rate of population change, , was 0.910  0.025. This value of  suggests an annual rate of decline in the territorial population of 9% per year over the period of study. Elasticity analyses showed  to be most sensitive to variation in adult female survival. However, the standard deviation of  was dominated by year-to-year variation in fecundity. Conservation guidelines should focus on management activities that increase the value of adult survival while minimizing its temporal variability. /// Estimamos la supervivencia () y fecundidad (b) especficas por edad y la tasa discreta de crecimiento poblacional () de Strix occidentalis occidentalis en un periodo de 10 aos (1990-1999). Marcamos 219 lechuzas jvenes y 200 adultas y subadultas en 90 localidades, para un total combinado de 1080 capturas. La estimacin de la media ( ES) de fecundidad (nmero de pichones hembras por hembra territorial) fue 0.065  0.066 en subadultos (n = 33) y 0.291  0.065 en adultos (n = 381). La probabilidad estimada de supervivencia aparente fue 0.333  0.055 para los jvenes y 0.827  0.015 para subadultos y adultos combinados. Usando tales estimaciones para construir una matriz de proyeccin de cuatro etapas, se obtiene una tasa discreta de cambio en la poblacin, , de 0.910  0.025. Este valor de  indica una tasa anual decreciente del 9% en la poblacin territorial durante el periodo estudiado. Los anlisis de elasticidad indicaron que  es ms susceptible a la variacin en la supervivencia de las hembras adultas. Sin embargo, la desviacin medio de  fue dominada por la variacin interanual en la fecundidad. Las reglas de conservacin deben concentrarse en actividades de manejo dirigidas a aumentar el nivel de supervivencia de hembras adultas y al mismo tiempo minimizar su variabilidad en el tiempo. 
1369822| To understand the evolution of avian reproductive strategies it is important to assess how differences in reproductive success are related to timing of the breeding season, quality of nesting territories or breeders, or to a combination of these factors. Over three years, we studied the reproductive performance of female Water Pipits (Anthus spinoletta) in a temporally and spatially variable alpine environment. The study area covered two valley slopes that differed in the probability of nest predation, food availability, and climate. Nest predation and harsh weather were the main proximate causes of differences in female reproductive success. Because these two environmental factors were locally unpredictable, individual females could best optimize their seasonal reproductive success by choosing the "right" breeding time. The average number of young fledged per season was inversely related to the date of initial breeding and increased from females with only first attempts, through females with replacement clutches, to females that raised two broods. Hence, the main advantage of early breeding lies in the chance of rearing a second brood after the first has fledged, or of producing a replacement clutch if the first fails due to predation or harsh weather. /// Para entender la evolucin de las estrategias reproductivas de las aves es importante determinar cmo las diferencias en el xito reproductivo se relacionan con el comienzo de la poca reproductiva, la calidad de los territorios de nidificacin o los reproductores o con una combinacin de estos factores. Durante un perodo de tres aos, estudiamos el desempeo reproductivo de hembras de Anthus spinoletta en un ambiente alpino temporal y espacialmente variable. El sitio de estudio comprendi dos laderas que diferan en la probabilidad de depredacin de nidos, disponibilidad de alimento y clima. La depredacin de nidos y el clima severo fueron las principales causas proximales de la diferencia del xito reproductivo de las hembras. Debido a que ambos factores ambientales fueron localmente inpredecibles, cada individuo hembra poda optimizar el xito de su perodo reproductivo eligiendo el tiempo "correcto" para reproducirse en la temporada. El nmero promedio de juveniles por temporada se relacion inversamente con la fecha del inicio de la reproduccin y aument desde hembras con slo un intento de cra, pasando por hembras que reemplazaron sus nidadas, hasta hembras que criaron dos nidadas. Por tanto, la ventaja principal de reproducirse tempranamente en la temporada est dada por la posibilidad de criar una segunda nidada luego de la partida de los primeros juveniles o de producir una nueva nidada si la primera falla debido a depredacin o clima severo. 
10.2307/1368846|I undertook a phylogenetic analysis of the Recent taxa of Phalacrocoracidae using qualitative osteological characters. The family comprises two subfamilies. The Phalacrocoracinae (cormorants) comprise four genera of all-dark, littorine species: Microcarbo (microcormorants), Compsohalieus (marine cormorants), Hypoleucos (mesocormorants), and Phalacrocorax (macrocormorants). The Leucocarboninae (shags) comprise five genera of variably plumaged, littorine, and pelagic species: Leucocarbo (guano shags), Notocarbo (blue-eyed shags), Nesocarbo (Campbell Island Shag), Euleucocarbo (New Zealand blue-eyed shags), and Stictocarbo (cliff shags). The relationship of the anhingas (Anhingidae) to the Phalacrocoracidae remains problematical and unresolved. Additional analyses using cranial or post-cranial characters produced comparable results, with the greatest divergence obtained when only crania were compared. I discuss the nature of homoplasy in the family: cormorants are characterized by convergences, shags by reversals. Plumage patterns have functional correlates, but phylogenetic history may be the ultimate factor.
10.2307/1368519|Yellow-rumped Caciques (Cacicus cela vitellinus) in Panama had repertoires of around seven distinct song types that were shared among all male members of a breeding colony. During aggressive interactions among males, different song types were statistically associated with various behavioral contexts, including flying, beginning a song bout, supplanting, and following a pause in colony singing activity. Three general song classes contained structural analogs (song types sharing acoustic similarities) at twelve colonies. Both structural and functional properties of song types appeared to be widespread in the Isthmus of Panama. Given a song type, the conditional probabilities of associated behaviors were usually low (0.05 to 0.50). Individual songs were better predictors of nonaggressive behavior, such as flight and starting song bouts, than supplanting behavior. Cacique song types are better interpreted as attention attracting devices rather than as signals of agonistic intentions.
10.2307/1369107|Avian kleptoparasitism is a specialized foraging behavior requiring rapid flight speeds and extreme agility. As such, it is expected that proficiency will correlate with experience and that the size of the kleptoparasite will influence its choice of host species. I investigated age- and sex-differences in the kleptoparasitic behavior of Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) on Midway Atoll. The results indicate that chases by more than one frigatebird are more successful than solitary ones, and that success rates vary with the host pursued. In contrast with previous work, success improved with age and sub-adults were more likely to chase as part of a group than were adults. Adults showed striking sex-differences in their selection of host species, females preferring large species such as boobies and tropicbirds while males preferred the smaller noddies and terns. The role of these sex-differences in the evolution of sexual size dimorphism is discussed. Finally, since marked breeding individuals were not observed in kleptoparasitic events near the colony, this foraging mode is apparently not important to breeding birds in this population. However, in some cases the frigatebird kleptoparasitism may directly influence the behavioral patterns and the survival of host individuals.
90008530|Red-throated Loon (
10.2307/1369665|From simulated data on three populations, I calculate different measures of "reproductive success": clutch size, egg success (the proportion of eggs that produce young), nest success (the proportion of clutches that produce young), and the annual reproductive success per female in terms of both number of broods and number of young reared successfully during a breeding season. These measures of success are not correlated. Differences in egg success or nest success do not necessarily translate into differences in annual reproductive success, and differences in annual reproductive success do not necessarily translate into evolutionary success.
1370388| Phainopeplas (Phainopepla nitens) utter contact calls, loud distress screams, and 37 other distinguishable vocalizations when captured, including imitations of at least 12 species. In southern California, Phainopeplas captured in the desert and coastal woodlands imitated species from both regions, suggesting that individuals occupy both habitats during the year and have an extended period of learning that spans the period of time when they move between regions. There was no significant difference in the number of calls imitated based on sex, male age, or habitat. A high percentage of Phainopeplas in both desert and coastal woodlands imitated Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus), whereas the use of other species' calls varied with habitat. Phainopeplas did not simply imitate the calls of the most abundant species or those that were most vocal. /// Al ser capturada, Phainopepla nitens emite Ilamadas de contacto, fuertes gritos de angustia, y otras 37 vocalizaciones diferentes, incluyendo imitaciones de al menos 12 especies. En el sur de California, individuos de P. nitens capturados en el desierto y en bosques costeros imitaron especies de aves de ambas regiones, sugiriendo que los individuos ocupan ambos ambientes a lo largo del ao y que tienen un perodo de aprendizaje que abarca el tiempo en que se mueven entre regiones. No hubo diferencias significativas en el nmero de Ilamadas imitadas considerando sexo de los individuos, edad de los machos, o ambiente. Un alto porcentaje de P. nitens, tanto en el desierto como en los bosques costeros, imit a Buteo jamaicensis y Colaptes auratus, mientras que el uso de Ilamadas de otras especies vari con el ambiente. P. nitens no imit simplemente las Ilamadas de las especies ms abundantes o de aquellas que vocalizaron ms. 
10.2307/1367889|Oxygen consumption was measured in order to estimate basal metabolic rate in a variety of Malaysian birds. Oxygen consumption during the active phase of the circadian cycle was greater than during the resting phase. Oxygen consumption was lower than that of temperate species of the same weight by 30% during the active phase and 35% during the resting phase. Species that forage in the sun seemed to consume less oxygen than those that forage in the shade.
10.2307/1369759|We examined habitat use, prey capture, and foraging success of Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in winters of 1990 and 1991 to evaluate influences of hourly fluctuating river flows from Glen Canyon Dam along the Colorado River in Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona. Patterns of habitat use were strongly dependent upon fluctuating flows in both years. Foraging in river, shore, and isolated pool habitats decreased to 0% at flows > 568 m<sup>3</sup> sec<sup>-1</sup>, whereas foraging in adjacent creek habitat increased to 100%. More foraging attempts occurred farther from the river in adjacent creek habitat as river flows increased, but this did not influence foraging success in creek habitat. Rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) stranded by fluctuating river flows comprised 12% and 19% of eagle prey captures in 1990 and 1991, respectively. Foraging success in river habitat decreased in 1990 as river flows increased from < 284 m<sup>3</sup> sec<sup>-1</sup> (74%) to > 284 m<sup>3</sup> sec<sup>-1</sup> (39%); foraging success in river habitat was independent of fluctuating flows in 1991. Low river flows exerted neutral or positive influences on eagle habitat use and prey capture, whereas high river flows reduced eagle foraging habitat diversity, lowered foraging success in river habitat, and restricted foraging opportunities. Management strategies to limit high river flows and sustained flooding during peak eagle concentration may benefit wintering eagles.
10.2307/1367370|The Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii) and Western Flycatcher (E. difficilis) are sympatric during the breeding season in southeastern Washington. At Kamiak Butte they occupy different habitats (the Willow Flycatcher in ninebark brush; the Western Flycatcher in Douglas fir) while at Palouse River they occupy the same habitat (floodplain forest). These species were more alike in foraging ecology when in the same habitat than when in different habitats. In floodplain forest they were very similar in their foraging ecologies, contrary to the predictions of competition theory. Food superabundance, interspecific territories, habitat differences, and limiting factors other than food are discussed as possible explanations for this situation. Interspecific competition has not, in this case, resulted in a division of the food supply.
10.2307/1369799|We tested the responses of two bird species which nest on unmovable substrates (e.g., cavities and walls) to simulated and actual egg damage in their nest. Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) and Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) removed broken eggs and continued to incubate the rest of their clutch, but response times took up to 8 days, and observed rejection rates were lower than reported for some other passerines. Collectively, these data and other studies suggest that broken eggs represent a continuing selection pressure to which all birds respond, although there appears to be some variability among species in the strength and speed of the response to damaged eggs.
10.2307/1369913|Foraging behavior of Short-toed Treecreeper Certhia brachydactyla and Eurasian Treecreeper C. familiaris was examined to test how well it fits a simple foraging model using data on arthropod distribution on tree trunks. Field observations in general supported the model predictions. Short-toed Treecreeper crept, on average, slower than Eurasian Treecreeper. Both species crept more slowly on larger trees. Eurasian Treecreeper crept slower on thick English oaks than on thick Scotch pines. Both treecreepers moved slower when probing as compared to gleaning, which was expected as foraging technique strongly affects handling time.
10.2307/1369333|Structural vegetation components of Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapillus) breeding habitats and unoccupied scrubland areas were analyzed at 13 sites from three regions: the Lampasas Cut Plains in central Texas; the Wichita Mountains and adjacent areas in western Oklahoma; and the Edwards Plateau (Kerr County) in central Texas. We evaluated 61 vegetation variables from individual vireo territories and equivalent scrubland plots unoccupied by vireos. Principal components indicated strong vegetation trends for all plots involving the abundance of junipers (from high to low) and openness (from low to high) extending from the Lampasas Cut Plains to the Wichita Mountains and then to the Edwards Plateau. In all regions, vireo territories had relatively high densities of deciduous vegetation (primarily oaks) close to the ground (i.e., up to 1-2 m, and in one region 3 m). In addition, vireo territories occurred where variation in relative density measures of woody vegetation was highest. However, even with the vireo's limited geographic range, differences were found among regions in the vegetational characteristics of areas defended by territorial males. Vireos avoided higher juniper densities on the Lampasas Cut Plains and more open areas on the Edwards Plateau. On the Edwards Plateau, with generally less dense vegetation and the lowest density of junipers, the older (ASY; after-second-year) males selected territories with higher juniper densities at lower height intervals than found on nonvireo plots. Territories of second-year males (SY) and older males (ASY) differed in vegetation characteristics. On the Edwards Plateau, SY males occupied territories with vegetation structurally more like nonvireo plots than like territories of ASY males. In the Wichita Mountains, where a remnant vireo population occurs, territories of SY males were similar to those of ASY males. In both regions, however, SY males were found in more open habitats. Competition with other foliage-gleaning species may have played a role in restricting the Black-capped Vireo to early successional stages of scrubland habitats, where they also may effectively avoid several species of nest predators. Periodic habitat disturbance has beneficial effects for vireos and can be used in management of this endangered species. Attempts should be made to maintain 35 to 55% dispersed scrub cover (primarily deciduous) in spatially heterogeneous configurations. Sometimes inherent site characteristics (e.g., poor soils) may naturally promote the degree of vegetational heterogeneity requisite for Black-capped Vireos. Managers should employ techniques that encourage thick regrowth of deciduous woody vegetation. Typically, juniper cover should be kept well below 10%, which may be possible only through habitat manipulation. However, in areas where amounts of deciduous vegetation are marginal (e.g., Edwards Plateau region and to the southwest), junipers may contribute important cover. Thus, site and regional characteristics need consideration when making decisions about juniper control.
10.1525/cond.2010.090059|We studied dispersal, mate retention, apparent survival, and renesting in a subarctic breeding population of the Semipalmated Plover (
10.2307/1368436|Clutch size and first egg date of neck-banded Canada Geese were studied at the McConnell River, Northwest Territories, Canada from 1965 to 1971. A maximum of 17% of clutch size variation within years was due to additive genetic variance, as estimated from repeatability of clutch size. Date of first egg showed no significant repeatability. Clutch size varied significantly among years (7% of total variation), and was usually smallest in late seasons and in years with a long delay between arrival on the breeding grounds and initiation of egg laying. Clutch size decreased by 0.18 eggs per day within a season, and this trend accounted for 19% of within-year variation in clutch size. Clutch size did not increase with age of the female. Mate change occurred annually in 30% of pairs, including 9% in which the previous mate was known to be still alive. Change of mate did not influence clutch size or first egg date, nor did change of nest site from the previous year. More than half of total clutch size variation remained unexplained. Weight of females arriving on the breeding grounds (not measured in this study) is probably the major influence on clutch size variation within and between seasons. Canada Geese appear to have a more flexible response to environmental conditions at or near the McConnell River than do Lesser Snow Geese nesting at the same site.
10.2307/1370224| We compare the pattern and rate of molt and plumage maturation in Wandering Albatrosses (Diomedea exulans chionoptera) using prebreeding and breeding birds from South Georgia (S. Atlantic Ocean) and Crozet Islands (S. Indian Ocean). Immatures from both sites have a molt cycle which basically alternates molt of outer primaries in one year and inner primaries in the next year. This is similar to, but in its details more complex and flexible than, the molt of the smaller, sympatric Black-browed and Gray-headed Albatrosses (D. melanophris and D. chrysostoma). It differs from the wrap-around molt characteristic of Laysan and Black-footed Albatrosses (D. immmutabilis and D. nigripes). Juvenile Wandering Albatrosses have most new primaries when 5-year-olds but even at this age some birds have retained primary 1 since they fledged. Males, but not females, from South Georgia replace more primaries than do Crozet birds. Adults breeding for the first time molt fewer primaries than birds breeding 7-11 months after a failed breeding attempt; these adults molt on average 6 primaries, similar to successful or failed Black-browed Albatrosses. Successful Wandering Albatrosses, in the 12 months before breeding again, only molt 7-8 primaries on average, in contrast to the 11 primaries molted by biennial Gray-headed Albatrosses in their 16 month breeding interval. The duration of the interval between successive breeding attempts is probably the main constraint on the amount of primary molt that can be accomplished. Failed, but not successful, Wandering Albatrosses breeding at Crozet molt more primaries than similar birds at South Georgia. At both sites, the plumage of birds of both sexes gets whiter until about 20 years old. However, South Georgia males are already whiter than Crozet birds at 5 years old (presumably reflecting the faster molt rate of South Georgia birds) and they maintain this difference for the next decade. In contrast, females from both sites mature at similar molt rates until age 10 years (median age of first breeding) when South Georgia birds become and stay whiter than Crozet birds. Plumage maturation rate is much slower in birds from Macquarie Island, but these may not belong to the same subspecies. Conventional (Gibson) plumage scores do not provide a reliable means of estimating age of Wandering Albatrosses, except in very general (3-5 year) categories. The pattern and extent of molt, however, can age most immature birds of D. e. chionoptera to within one year; we provide a key for doing this. 
10.2307/1367141| The age of Savannah Sparrow parents had no clear influence on nesting phenology, clutch size, or net reproductive output (number of young fledged) at Isle Verte, Qubec, Canada. Older females started nesting earlier in one of two study years which had complete data. Nestlings reared in the second half of the season spent about one day less in the nest and gained weight significantly faster than those reared during the first half. 
10.2307/1369567|The current taxonomic status of the Troglodytes aedon (House Wren) species group was evaluated by examining levels and patterns of isozyme differentiation. Traditionally, three major taxonomic groups of continental House Wrens have been recognized: (1) aedon (Northern House-Wren); (2) brunneicollis (Brown-throated Wren); and (3) musculus (Southern House-Wren). The isozyme data were converted to genetic distances and analyzed using UPGMA, Distance Wagner, Fitch-Margoliash, "minimum-evolution," and neighbor-joining algorithms. In addition, a cladistic frequency parsimony analysis (FREQPARS) was performed. All of these methods revealed that the Northern House-Wren and the Brown-throated Wren are sister taxa. There was little genetic differentiation (average Nei's D = 0.010) among the seven subspecies of the Southern House-Wren analyzed. Average genetic distances between the Southern House-Wren, the Northern House-Wren, and the Brown-throated Wren are higher than any values reported for intraspecific variation in Nearctic birds, and are comparable to levels of divergence between other Nearctic and Neotropical species. Although the current taxonomy considers the three forms members of a single species, we recommend re-elevating the three groups to species status based on the genetic differences that indicate the three are distinct evolutionary "units." We propose a vicariant hypothesis for the divergence of the Northern House-Wren and the Brown-throated Wren.
1370666| Trained observers counted migrating raptors and vultures from ridgetops at six sites in the Intermountain and Rocky Mountain Flyways of western North America: Goshute Mountains, Nevada (autumn 1983-2001); Wellsville Mountains, Utah (autumn 1977-1979 and 1987-2001); Bridger Mountains, Montana (autumn 1992-2001); Manzano Mountains, New Mexico (autumn 1985-2001); Sandia Mountains, New Mexico (spring 1985-2001); and Lipan Point, Arizona (autumn 1991-2001). We analyzed site-specific trends in annual passage rates (raptors per 100 hr of observation), conducting species-level analyses for 13 species and age-specific analyses for Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) and Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos). Our findings suggest that, until the late 1990s when possibly drought-related downturns began, Intermountain-Rocky Mountain populations of Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura), Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus), Broad-winged Hawks (Buteo platypterus), Red-tailed Hawks (B. jamaicensis), Merlins (Falco columbarius), and Peregrine Falcons (F. peregrinus) were increasing for diverse reasons. In contrast, our migration data and other sources indicate concern over the status of western Golden Eagles and Ferruginous Hawks (B. regalis), and uncertainty about the status of western Northern Goshawks and American Kestrels (F. sparverius). Breeding Bird Survey and Christmas Bird Count trends generally corroborated our results. The migration data reveal regional variation in the status of some species, give new insight concerning Golden Eagle and Northern Goshawk migrations, and suggest effects of an ongoing, widespread drought. Our analyses demonstrate the value of standardized, long-term migration counts for monitoring the regional status and trends of migratory raptors in western North America. Varios observadores entrenados contaron aves rapaces migratorias desde las cimas de montaas en seis sitios en los corredores de vuelo inter-montaas y de las Montaas Rocallosas en el oeste de Norte Amrica: Goshute Mountains, Nevada (otoo 1983-2001); Wellsville Mountains, Utah (otoo 1977-1979 y 1987-2001); Bridger Mountains, Montana (otoo 1992-2001); Manzano Mountains, New Mexico (otoo 1985-2001); Sandia Mountains, New Mexico (primavera 1985-2001); Lipan Point, Arizona (otoo 1991-2001). Analizamos las tendencias especficas de cada sitio en las tasas anuales de paso (nmero de rapaces por 100 hr de observacin), realizando anlisis por especie para 13 especies y por edad para las especies Accipiter gentilis y Aquila chrysaetos. Nuestros hallazgos sugieren que hasta finales de los aos 1990s (cuando comenzaron a verse tendencias negativas posiblemente relacionadas con sequas) las poblaciones de Cathartes aura, Pandion haliaetus, Buteo platypterus, B. jamaicensis, Falco columbarius y F. peregrinus estaban aumentando por diversos motivos. En contraste, nuestros datos de migracin y otras fuentes causan preocupacin en cuanto al estatus de A. chrysaetos y B. regalis, e incertidumbre sobre el estatus de A. gentilis y F. sparverius. Las tendencias evidentes en los censos de aves reproductivas y los conteos navideos generalmente corroboraron nuestros resultados. Los datos de migracin mostraron la existencia de variacin regional en el estatus de algunas especies, revelaron informacin nueva con respecto a las migraciones de A. chrysaetos y A. gentilis e indicaron los efectos de una sequa actual generalizada. Nuestros anlisis demuestran el valor de conteos estandarizados de aves rapaces migratorias a largo plazo para monitorear el estatus regional y las tendencias poblacionales de estas aves en el oeste de Norte Amrica. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100073|We assessed interspecific ecological relationships between Say's (
40072466|For hummingbirds, artificial feeders can serve as an alternative food source to nectar from flowering plants. The presence of feeders may lead to increases in local hummingbird populations and decreases in the use of native plants. We examined how the presence of feeders influenced the rate of hummingbird visits to a changing array of flowering plants in southeastern Arizona. Feeder visits represented approximately 59% of all visits during our yearlong study, but were less common in times of high floral abundance. The ratio of feeder visits to total visits was negatively related to overall floral abundance and to the abundance of the hummingbird-favored plant,
10.2307/1369140|Primary molt in Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) has been described as irregular. However, through an examination of museum specimens we determined that the molt of juvenal primaries progresses as a single descendant wave as primaries molt in sequence from primary 1 to primary 7 or 8. Molt then skipped to primary 10, the terminal primary, in most birds before the skipped primary or primaries were molted. The molt of juvenal primaries was arrested in 56% of specimens and a median of eight primaries was replaced (range 2-10). In contrast to the molt of juvenal primaries, 88% of adults had at least two descendant waves (range 1-4) of molt simultaneously active in primaries. Adults replaced from 2-10 primaries during a period of molt. The number of primaries replaced was bimodal with modes at 3.5 and nine. We were unable to track the transition from the single wave of molt evident in juvenal primary molt to the serial descendant waves in the adult primary molts. However, our findings for the juvenal and adult molts indicate that primary molt of Black-crowned Night-Herons is similar to serial descendant molt (Staffelmauser) in other species. Typically, serial waves in the adults arise through the arrest and continuation of descendant waves generated from a proximally located molt center. The variation in the number of primaries replaced by night-herons is evidence that the waves that typify serial descendant molt are simply a consequence of molt arresting due to time constraints on the length of the molt period. On the basis of available data for night-herons, serial descendant molt does not minimize the aerodynamic impact of primary molt or equalize the frequency of primary replacement.
10.1525/cond.2013.110201|In this study we measured two physiological traits (levels of corticosterone and immunoglobulin) in two species of landbirds, the Canyon Towhee (
90008051|Several studies have emphasized the importance of postfledging survival when estimating avian population growth rates, yet high variation exists in reported estimates. Mechanisms influencing postfledging survival also remain poorly understood. The influences of local habitat quality and landscape context on postfledging movements also remain largely undocumented. We measured daily postfledging survival and movements in Ovenbirds (
10.2307/1368567|The degree to which Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) exhibit year-to-year fidelity to particular colony sites, as well as fidelity toward their natal colony sites, was examined using banding recoveries obtained in California. Individuals had high rates of return to colony sites where they had nested during the preceding year; of those few birds that switched colony sites between successive years, most moved only short distances from the previous area. Least Terns also showed a significant tendency toward nesting at their natal colony site. These results suggest that the species may be more philopatric than has been postulated previously, and that long-term protection and management of current colony sites is therefore an important conservation goal.
10.2307/1369489|Ground-breaking advances in the study of animal sound communication per se, and avian vocal behavior in particular, awaited instrumentation that enabled capture of sound signals for objective description and analyses. Once these technological advances became generally available, a groundswell of activity in vocal studies, bioacoustics, provided the "raw material" for hypothesis testing pertaining to various biological and evolutionary principles. All aspects of this field cannot be covered in one review. Thus, themes developed herein deal primarily with questions of vocal acquisition such as factors affecting song learning, the sensitive phase and stimulus filtering hypotheses pertaining to the learning process, the effect of vocal behavior on population dynamics, the effect of hormones on the song learning process and production, photoperiod and song as they are related to gonadal recrudescence, advances in the neurophysiological control of song acquisition and production, and the incidence of female song and function across taxa.
10.2307/1369730| A severe limitation in studies of avian ecological energetics is the lack of an accurate, non-invasive technique for determining whole body fat storage in living birds. We explored a technique of assaying total body potassium as a predictor of lean mass (LM) and then derived fat mass (FM) by subtracting LM from total body mass. Body potassium (K), present in lean tissue but not in fat, was estimated noninvasively from naturally-occurring radioactive
1370713| Using molecular-genetic techniques, we determined the gender of 202 Southwestern Willow Flycatcher (Empidonax traillii extimus) nestlings from 95 nests sampled over a five-year period. Overall nestling sex ratio did not vary significantly from 50:50 among years, by clutch order, or by mating strategy (monogamous vs. polygamous pairings). However, we did observe significant differences among the four sites sampled, with sex ratios biased either toward males or females at the different sites. Given the small population sizes and geographic isolation of many of the endangered subspecies' breeding populations, sex-ratio differences may have localized negative impacts. /// Utilizando tcnicas moleculares determinamos el sexo de 202 polluelos de Empidonax traillii extimus pertenecientes a 95 nidos que fueron muestreados durante un perodo de cinco aos. En general, el cociente de sexos no vari significativamente de 50:50 entre aos, ya sea por orden de la nidada o por estrategia de apareamiento (monogamia vs. poligamia). Sin embargo, observamos diferencias significativas entre los cuatro sitios muestreados, en los cuales la razn de sexos estuvo sesgada hacia los machos o las hembras dependiendo del sitio. Dados los pequeos tamaos poblacionales y el aislamiento geogrfico de muchas de las poblaciones reproductivas de esta subespecie en peligro, las diferencias en el cociente de sexos pueden tener un impacto negativo a nivel local. 
10.2307/1369027| Reproductive biology and vocalizations of the Horned Guan (Oreophasis derbianus) were studied in the El Triunfo Biosphere Reserve in Chiapas, Mexico. The nest and eggs are described here for the first time. The Horned Guan apparently has a polygynous mating system. Males make at least five different kinds of vocalizations. Females produce seven or eight different types of calls, which are guttural compared with those of males. One female took 2.81 (0.40) incubation recesses daily during 16 days of observation, and individual recesses averaged 32.9 (13.1) min. Incubation sessions averaged 191 min  44.6. The incubation period was estimated to be 35-36.5 days. Likely predators of Horned Guan eggs are described. Suggestions for the conservation of this species and its habitat are presented. /// Se estudi la biologa reproductiva y vocalizaciones del Pavn (Oreophasis derbianus) en la reserva de la bisfera El Triunfo, Chiapas. El nido y los huevos son descritos por primera vez. Las observaciones de campo sugieren que el sistema social de esta especie est basado en la poliginia. Los machos emiten cinco diferentes tipos de vocalizaciones y las hembras de siete a ocho, las cuales a diferencia de los machos, son todas guturales. Durante la incubacin una hembra realiz 2.81 (0.40) recesos diarios durante 16 das de observacin y en promedio cada receso fue de 32.9 (13.1) min. Las sesiones de incubacin promediaron 191.13  44.60 min. El perodo de incubacin se estim de 35-36.5 das. Se mencionan a los probables depredadores. Finalmente, se mencionan algunas estrategias para la conservacin de la especie. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120080|Avian foraging activity during daytime peaks after dawn and before dusk. The relative importance of each period of intensive foraging on the accumulated intake varies by species, individual, and day. We studied the relative importance of each period from direct observation of radio-tagged Common Cranes (
10.2307/1369059|We analyzed composition of rapidly developing ovarian follicles and eggs of Ruddy Ducks nesting in southern Manitoba in 1988. For ducks with at least one ovulated follicle, there was a significant correlation between amount of fat in the largest developing follicle and time of day that ducks were shot. If ovulations occur, on average, 24 hr apart, then this correlation indicates a high degree of synchrony of ovulation in this population. We used regression analysis to estimate that 95% of ovulations occurred between early evening (18:17 CST) and mid morning (08:45 CST). These results support observations by Siegfried (1976) and Tome (1984) that the interval between eggs is 24 hr in wild Ruddy Ducks. We never found more than six rapidly developing follicles per female, and given that eggs are laid daily, duration of rapid follicle growth is 5-6 days. This conflicts with an estimate of 11 days for follicle maturation made by Gray (1980) who counted pairs of light and dark rings in egg yolks. We explain this incongruity by proposing that egg-laying Ruddy Ducks may show a diphasic, and perhaps crepuscular, foraging schedule whereby two sets of rings are deposited/24 hr (Dobbs et al. 1976). Maximum daily cost (584 kJ) of egg production, scaled against basal metabolic rate (BMR, 208 kJ), is among the highest (280% of BMR) recorded for waterfowl. However, Ruddy Ducks that lay seven eggs, i.e., the modal clutch size, would incur maximum costs for only one day.
10.1525/cond.2012.110142|Within a population, the sizes of eggs and clutches vary, and the combination of both determines a female's reproductive investment. We investigated females' investment in clutches of the Chilean Swallow (
1370556| We describe a simple and robust method for estimating trends in population size. The method may be used with Breeding Bird Survey data, aerial surveys, point counts, or any other program of repeated surveys at permanent locations. Surveys need not be made at each location during each survey period. The method differs from most existing methods in being design based, rather than model based. The only assumptions are that the nominal sampling plan is followed and that sample size is large enough for use of the t-distribution. Simulations based on two bird data sets from natural populations showed that the point estimate produced by the linear model was essentially unbiased even when counts varied substantially and 25% of the complete data set was missing. The estimating-equation approach, often used to analyze Breeding Bird Survey data, performed similarly on one data set but had substantial bias on the second data set, in which counts were highly variable. The advantages of the linear model are its simplicity, flexibility, and that it is self-weighting. A user-friendly computer program to carry out the calculations is available from the senior author. /// Decribimos un mtodo simple y robusto para estimar tendencias en tamaos poblacionales. El mtodo puede utilizarse con datos del Censo de Aves Reproductivas, de censos ereos, de conteos por punto o de cualquier otro programa de censos repetidos en localidades permanentes. Los censos no necesitan hacerse en cada localidad durante cada perodo de censado. El mtodo difiere de la mayora de los que existen en que est basado en un diseo y no en un modelo. Las nicas suposiciones son que se sigue el plan de muestreo nominal y que el tamao de muestreo es suficientemente grande para el uso de la distribucin t. Simulaciones basadas en dos grupos de datos de poblaciones naturales de aves mostraron que el estimativo puntual producido por el modelo fue esencialmente no sesgado, incluso cuando los conteos variaban sustancialmente y faltaba el 25% del juego completo de datos. El enfoque de estimacin de ecuaciones, usado con frecuencia para analizar datos del Censo de Aves Reproductivas, se comport de manera similar en un grupo de datos, pero present un marcado sesgo en el otro, en el que los conteos eran altamente variables. Las ventajas del modelo lineal son su simplicidad, flexibilidad y que se auto-evalua. Un programa de computador de fcil uso para realizar los clculos est disponible a travs del primer autor. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100039|We examined the effects of the introduced gypsy moth (
10.2307/1368197|From 1986 to 1990 we studied the vocalizations of 10 mated pairs of Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) during the pre-incubation stage. We heard four different vocalizations during nest-building, copulatory, and other pre-laying activities. There was a marked asymmetry in vocalizations between the sexes during the pre-incubation period. Compared to males, female Cooper's Hawks (1) had a larger repertoire of calls, (2) called more frequently, and (3) called during a wider array of activities. We suggest that the various calls signal presence, identity, location, dominance, and non-aggressive motivation. We attribute some of the intersexual differences in pre-incubation vocalizations to the pronounced degree of reversed sexual size dimorphism in this species.
10.2307/1369156|For many shorebirds and passerines, stopovers in areas of concentrated resources increase survival during migration. For raptors, physical factors have generally been considered to be the chief influence on migratory behavior, and few studies have collected quantitative data on the use of resting and foraging habitat during migration. Our object was to survey three different habitats along a 30-km section of the Cape May peninsula. We measured abundance, flight altitude, and flight direction of eight species of migrating raptors to evaluate the influence of habitat and physical factors, including wind speed, wind direction, and location, on migratory behavior. Physical factors such as wind speed and direction were weakly related to bird density and altitude. Although interactions among physical factors were significant, they were not consistent with predictions based on bird mass or wing-aspect ratio. Habitat type was significantly associated with most species' altitude and density. Birds generally occurred in higher densities and at lower altitudes above habitats similar to those used in breeding or wintering seasons. We suggest that the strong habitat association is due to the need for suitable foraging sites. Many migratory raptors are able to prey upon migratory birds, insects, and fish that also concentrate at the end of the Cape May peninsula or in waters offshore. Most of the raptors observed in Cape May are immature and inexperienced, and the concentration of similarly immature and inexperienced prey may prove to be a critical factor in successful migration along the Atlantic Coast.
10.1525/cond.2013.110062|Along with breeding and migration, molt is one of the most energetically expensive components of a birds annual cycle. Auklets (tribe Aethiini) are apparently unique among the Alcidae in that flight-feather molt and breeding overlap. We compared the degree of overlap of primary molt with breeding in the Least Auklet (
10.2307/1368636| I assessed factors influencing the reproductive success of Red-necked Grebes (Podiceps grisegena) in Turtle Mountain Provincial Park, Manitoba, during 1980 and 1981. Nesting losses were high as 78.9% of 697 eggs in 179 regularly observed nests failed to hatch. An additional 4.4% disappeared during the hatching process. Similar success rates among 137 eggs in 29 infrequently observed clutches indicated that observer presence did not adversely affect nesting success. Losses due to waves (2%) and intraspecific territoriality (6%) were minimal. Predators, particularly raccoons (Procyon lotor), accounted for half of the losses. Organochlorine residues contributed to many of the remaining losses. Average DDE levels (74.3 ppm, lipid weight) in 12 eggs were comparable to those reported in other recent studies, but average PCB levels (194.8 ppm) were unusually high. Average residue levels of 1 to 8 ppm were recorded for mirex, dieldrin, hexachlorobenzene, oxychlordane, heptachlor epoxide, and DDD. The average Ratcliffe Index (1.72) for 29 eggs collected during this study was significantly less than Ratcliffe Indices for 112 Red-necked Grebe eggs collected in North America prior to 1947 (x = 1.84) or for 186 eggs collected in central Alberta in the early 1970s (x = 1.86). Other indications of thin-shelled eggs included the frequent disappearance of single eggs between nest checks (9%) and cracked eggs noted in several active nests. The estimated rate of egg inviability (25%) exceeded the 5% rate considered normal for most grebes. Egg inviability contributed to at least 23% of 191 eggs in 58 successful clutches being deserted after partial clutch hatching. A high incidence of renesting, 83.5% of 79 failed pairs, resulted in 51% of 114 breeding pairs hatching at least one young. An average of 2.5 young hatched per successful pair. This was reduced to 1.9 young per successful pair or 0.9 young per breeding pair at fledging. Fledging success was lower than recorded in most other Red-necked Grebe studies. Organochlorines, recent increases in unnatural predators, and human recreational activities have probably contributed to reduced productivity and population declines among Red-necked Grebe populations throughout North America. 
1370736| Using a commercially available corticosterone I
10.2307/1368239|The foraging roles during brood rearing of males and females of the sexually dimorphic Western Grebe (Aechmophorus occidentalis) were examined during a 2-year study in southeastern British Columbia. The larger males fed larger fish to the young than females. Females foraged more when young were small and could eat only small fish, whereas males increased their foraging effort when the young were larger. In 1982 when the primary prey, year-class-one yellow perch (Perca flavescens), were scarce, both males and females fed smaller fish, primarily young-of-the year perch, to the brood. As well, parents fed pumpkinseed (Lepomis gibbosus) to the chicks in 1982, whereas none were eaten in 1983. Parents foraged longer in 1982 than in 1983, and caught more but smaller fish. Such behavioral flexibility by parents may be important in buffering offspring from the inimical effects of environmental variation in resource yield.
40306211|We examined the utility of the maximum Euclidean distance (MED) method, which was developed for the Common Goldeneye (
10.1525/cond.2010.090248|We describe a new enantiornithine bird,
10.1525/cond.2013.130013|Vegetation characteristics affect avian reproductive success for a variety of reasons, including predators, nesting sites, song perches, and food availability. We investigated the relationship between habitat composition and prey availability and the effect these variables have on reproductive success in the Golden-cheeked Warbler (
10.1525/cond.2013.120014|The Mountain Plover (
4500997| Sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene (930 base pairs) were used to examine patterns of variation within and between Eastern (Megascops asio) and Western (M. kennicottii) Screech-Owls, and to assess taxonomic affinity of Flammulated Owls (Otus flammeolus) and Whiskered Screech-Owls (M. trichopsis). Analyses support monophyly of the New World Megascops, a sister-group relationship between O. flammeolus and New World forms of Megascops, rather than with Old World Otus, and a closer relationship between the mostly North American M. trichopsis and South American Megascops than between M. trichopsis and North American Megascops. Megascops asio and M. kennicottii formed two distinct monophyletic clades, supporting species-level designations as suggested by morphology and song. Evidence for distinctive subspecies of eastern and western forms of screech-owls was less compelling. In the M. asio group, M. a. mccallii was the only subspecies with a unique haplotype; other subspecies within M. asio were phylogenetically indistinguishable. Subspecies within M. kennicottii were partitioned into three geographic groups, and differences are probably the result of barriers to gene flow (e.g., mountains above 2300 m), which are more pronounced throughout the distribution of M. kennicottii than in the distribution of M. asio. /// Se utilizaron secuencias del gen mitocondrial citocromo b (930 pares de bases) para examinar los patrones de variacin entre y dentro de las especies Megascops asio y M. kennicottii, y para determinar las afinidades taxonmicas de stas con las especies Otus flammeolus y M. trichopsis. Los anlisis apoyan la condicin monofiltica de Megascops del Nuevo Mundo, una relacin de grupos hermanos entre O. flammeolus y las formas del Nuevo Mundo de Megascops, ms que con Otus del Viejo Mundo, y una relacin ms cercana entre la especie M. trichopsis principalmente de Norteamrica y los Megascops de Sudamrica, que entre M. trichopsis y los Megascops de Norteamrica. Megascops asio y M. kennicottii formaron dos clados monofilticos diferentes, apoyando la designacin a nivel de especie sugerida por la morfologa y canto de stos. La evidencie para la designacin de subespecies bien caracterizadas entre las formas de Megascops asio y M. kennicottii fue mucho menos concluyente. En el grupo de M. asio, M. a. mccallii fue la nica especie con un haplotipo nico; las dems subespecies dentro de M. asio no fueron distinguibles filogenticamente. Las subespecies dentro de M. kennicottii se encontraron divididas en tres grupos geogrficos, lo que es probablemente el resultado de la presencia de barreras para el flujo gnico (e.g., montaas sobre 2300 m), las cuales son ms pronunciadas a lo largo de la distribucin de M. kennicottii que en la distribucin de M. asio. 
4123192| Hierarchical structure in bird-habitat associations can arise from hierarchical structure in environmental variables and from the scale-dependent responses of birds to habitat. Hierarchical structure in environmental variables is expected to result from interactions between variables that differ in grain size (spatial resolution) and frequency, and should occur commonly. Birds cannot accurately sample habitat characteristics at all spatial scales simultaneously, and the habitat chosen for a given purpose may differ depending on whether a bird samples from high above the ground (which is best for sampling coarse-grained variables) or from ground level (which is best for sampling finegrained variables). Additionally, birds may exhibit an absolute response to a habitat variable, if it is unsuitable beyond some threshold level, or a relative response, if all available habitat is suitable but some is preferred. Models that can represent hierarchical structure in habitat, as well as hierarchical, scale-dependent responses by birds, should provide researchers the best chance of understanding avian habitat associations. /// La estructura jerrquica en las asociaciones de las aves con el hbitat puede derivarse de la estructura jerrquica de las variables ambientales y de las respuestas dependientes de la escala de las aves hacia el hbitat. Se espera que la estructura jerrquica de las variables ambientales sea el resultado de las interacciones entre las variables que difieren en tamao de grano (resolucin espacial) y en frecuencia, lo cual debe ocurrir frecuentemente. Las aves no pueden muestrear de modo preciso las caractersticas del hbitat a todas las escalas espaciales simultneamente, y el hbitat seleccionado para un propsito determinado puede diferir dependiendo de si el ave muestrea desde muy alto (lo cual es mejor para evaluar variables definidas por tamaos de grano grande)  desde el suelo (lo cual es mejor para evaluar variables definidas por tamaos de grano pequeo). Adicionalmente, las aves pueden mostrar una respuesta absoluta a una variable del hbitat, si esta no es adecuada ms all de un cierto lmite,  una respuesta relativa, si todo el hbitat disponible es adecuado pero ciertas partes son preferidas. Los modelos que pueden representar la estructura jerrquica del hbitat, as como tambin jerarquas en las respuestas de las aves que dependen de la escala, deberan brindar a los investigadores la mejor oportunidad para entender las asociaciones de las aves con el hbitat. 
10.2307/1370309|Vegetation structure and floristic composition strongly influence the structure of bird communities. To assess the influence of vegetation and other environmental characteristics on songbirds, we quantified nest-site characteristics and reproductive success of a riparian songbird community in Arizona. Although we found interspecific variation in characteristics associated with nest sites, we identified two suites of species that chose sites with similar characteristics. These "nest groups" were explained largely by nest height and characteristics of nest trees. Overall, nest success was low for songbirds in this community, and averaged 23%. The most common cause of nest failure was predation (81%), although brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) was highest at nests of Bell's Vireos (Vireo bellii) (29%). No vegetation or environmental features were associated with the likelihood of cowbird parasitism for any species; nest success for Bell's Vireos was negatively associated with the amount of netleaf hackberry (Celtis reticulata) in the understory. Arizona sycamore (Platanus wrightii) and netleaf hackberry trees contained 41% and 17% of all nests, respectively, and therefore provide critically important nesting substrates for birds in this rare yet diverse vegetation community.
10.1525/cond.2011.100022|Invasive plants represent a serious threat to native biodiversity worldwide through direct competition with native species and indirect effects resulting in ecosystem-level changes. In the western U.S., the sagebrush ecosystem has been seriously altered by the invasion of cheatgrass (
10.2307/1367338|Groups of photorefractory male Black-headed Buntings (Emberiza melanocephala), previously maintained on long daylengths (15L:9D), were exposed to photoperiods in which a 6-h light period was coupled with dark periods of 6, 18, 30, 42, or 54 h; a sixth control group was kept on 15L:9D. Cycles with lengths of 24 (6L:18D) and 48 h (6L:42D) terminated photorefractoriness, but cycles of 12 (6L:6D), 36 (6L:30D), and 60 h (6L:54D) did not; refractoriness persisted in the birds on 15L:9D. The results demonstrate that the termination and maintenance of the refractory period in Black-headed Buntings, a palearctic migratory passerine, are mediated by an endogenous circadian system of photoperiodic time measurement similar to that involved in the initiation and maintenance of gonadal growth, as is the case for several nearctic migratory species.
10.1525/cond.2013.120055|Henslows Sparrows (
10.2307/1367368|The ecology of the Savanna Hawk (Buteogallus meridionalis) was studied in the palm-savannas of Venezuela in 1978-1980. Pairs produced only one egg per clutch, no more than one young per calendar year, and had eggs or young in nests from February to December, coinciding largely with the wet season. In comparison to North American Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), Savanna Hawks had significantly fewer young per pair per year, lower nest success (47.1% vs. 82.5%), mainly due to lower hatching success (64.1% vs. 84.4%) and a lower proportion of pairs laying eggs (73.3% vs. 88.0%). Survival of young Savanna Hawks from hatching to near fledging was 70.4%, and the adult survival rate, 71.1%; these values are approximately equal to those for Red-tailed Hawks. The brood size was artificially doubled from one to two at 10 Savanna Hawk nests, but the adults could find only enough food to feed and raise one chick in most cases. Food appeared to be both the ultimate and proximate factor controlling the timing of breeding. The Savanna Hawk has evolved interrelated habits that counter its low fecundity: (1) the capability of renesting after the initial eggs or young have perished; (2) a post-fledging dependency period of four to seven months to help insure survival of the single young; and (3) permanent or longlived pair-bonds. The ability to renest is enhanced by hunting versatility. Longlived pair bonds may improve intra-pair activities thereby enhancing the reproductive success of experienced breeders.
10.2307/1368986|We monitored numbers of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) in Washington from fall 1980 through spring 1992 at Willapa Bay, and from fall 1986 through spring 1993 in the Dungeness area. We estimated brant use by converting the counts into use days. Coincidentally we also monitored variations in the extent of eelgrass (Zostera marina) beds by remote sensing techniques. At Willapa, brant use was positively correlated with the total extent of eelgrass beds and negatively correlated with the extent of oyster beds that were located within eelgrass beds, and where eelgrass had been removed by mechanical means. A 52% decline in brant use was associated with a 22% decline in eelgrass. At Dungeness there was a significant negative trend in spring-staging brant use. Overall a 63% decline in brant use coincided with a 31% decline in eelgrass. The Dungeness eelgrass beds may have declined because of natural factors. In both areas, brant use during the spring-staging period was more related to eelgrass extent than brant use during the winter months. These results suggest that Black Brant use in coastal Washington is limited by eelgrass availability. Immatures averaged 10.4% of the population at Willapa and 9.9% at Dungeness and are amongst the lowest reported. A shortage of eelgrass during the critical spring-staging period may have led to reduced endogenous reserves and associated low reproductive success of Black Brant that staged in coastal Washington. The shortage of eelgrass may have contributed to the observed southward shift to Mexico by wintering brant.
40072451|We used radio-telemetry to examine fine-scale movement patterns of Wilson's Warblers (
10.2307/1369963| We injected transponders subcutaneously to mark single Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) adults and all chicks of a colony at Wilhelmshaven with the aim of establishing a completely marked colony. We present details on the equipment and methods and report preliminary results. Microtagged terns can be identified for life, not only at their nest when breeding, but also at resting places by fixed antennas at distances of < 11 cm. Thus, nonbreeders can be identified as well. We also weighed terns remotely to obtain information on their body condition. Body mass data as well as identification codes were electronically stored. Preliminary data indicated that adult survival was  87% and subadult survival until age two was  20%. 
10.2307/1368816|Hourly variation in bird activity can influence census results but has not been well studied in tropical habitats. I examined hourly variation in numbers of birds detected during 10 min point counts in a tropical wet forest site in Costa Rica. Counts started one-half hour before and continued for 4.5 hr after sunrise. Counts were conducted along three routes (20 points each on two routes; 11 points on one route) in primary forest during early (January), middle (March), and late (April) dry season of 1991, prior to the main breeding season (May-June) for most species. Total numbers of individuals and species detected per point declined significantly from early to late morning. Birds of forest understory declined markedly during the first hour; detections of canopy birds, by contrast, tended to increase from the first to second or third hour, before declining. Hourly variation was more pronounced, overall, later in the dry season. Individual species differed in patterns of detection during the morning. Results indicate that point counts in this forest should be restricted to the first three hours of the morning.
10.1525/cond.2013.120137|The basic assumption in the morphology of avian migrants is that longer, more pointed and concave wings are well adapted for long-distance migratory flights. We investigated how wingtip morphology of the Common Snipe was associated with aspects of its migration, such as amount of accumulated fat, refueling rates, length of stay at the stopover site, and timing of post-juvenile molt. Our study took place at the Jeziorsko reservoir, central Poland, where over 400 first-year Common Snipe (
40072334|During 2002-2003, we studied the breeding ecology of the Altamira Oriole (Icterus gularis), a permanent resident that builds pendulous nests in remnant tracts of Tamaulipan brushland in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, Texas. We found 76 active oriole nests, seven of which were reused for second broods, for a total of 83 nesting attempts. Nearly 20% of the breeding individuals in our sample were subadults (second-year orioles). Using a microvideo camera, we were able to estimate incubation and nestling periods of 12.5 and 15.5 days, respectively. Fifty-nine percent of nests fledged at least one young, with successful nests averaging 2.3 fledglings. Failed nests were all intact, indicating that predators entered through the small opening in the top of the nest. Six nests fledged Bronzed Cowbirds (Molothrus aeneus), although two of these nests produced orioles as well. Vegetation analysis suggested that orioles preferred the tallest trees in the study sites in which to place their nests. A greater number of fallen logs was also a predictor of nest sites, which agrees with previous studies suggesting that orioles prefer open woodlands and edges. Formerly vast, dense forests in the Lower Rio Grande Valley have degraded into open woodlands, perhaps benefiting Altamira Orioles during the last 50 years. However, because of the oriole's preference for tall trees, continued degradation of forested tracts may not be beneficial to this species /// Durante 2002 y 2003, estudiamos la ecologa reproductiva de Icterus gularis, un residente permanente que construye nidos colgantes en los sectores remanentes de matorrales de Tamaulipas en la cuenca baja del Ro Grande, en el estado de Texas. Hallamos 76 nidos activos, siete de los cuales fueron reutilizados por una segunda camada, para un total de 83 intentos de nidificacin. Casi el 20% de los individuos reproductores en nuestra muestra fueron subadultos (individuos del segundo ao). Usando una cmara de vdeo en miniatura, pudimos estimar el perodo de incubatin en 12.5 das y el perodo de crecimiento de los polluelos en 15.5 das. El 59% de los nidos criaron por lo menos un polluelo volantn y los nidos exitosos criaron en promedio 2.3 polluelos volantones. Todos los nidos que fracasaron estuvieron intactos, lo que podra indicar que los depredados entraron al nido por la abertura pequea en la parte superior del nido. Seis nidos criaron ejemplares de Molothrus aeneus, aunque dos de estos nidos tambin criaron ejemplares de I. gularis. El anlisis de la vegetatin sugiere que, en los sitios de estudio, I. gularis prefiri los rboles ms altos para construir sus nidos colgantes. Un mayor nmero de troncos caidos cerca del nido predijo tambin la ubicacin de los sitios de nidificacin, lo que coincide con estudios anteriores que sugieren que I. gularis prefiere bordes y reas arboladas abiertas. Los bosques, antes extensos y densos, de la cuenca baja del Ro Grande, han sido degradados transformndose en reas arboladas abiertas, quizs beneficiando a I. gularis durante los ltimos 50 aos. Sin embargo, debido a la preferencia de I. gularis por los rboles altos, la degradcin continua de los bosques puede no ser beneficiosa para esta especie.
40306187|Many studies have demonstrated the deleterious effects of introduced predators on resident populations of island birds, but few have quantified their effect on the survival and space-use behavior of migratory species. We used radio telemetry to investigate the winter survival and roosting patterns of Bicknell's Thrush (
4123194| Grassland birds are among the most imperiled groups of birds in North America. Unfortunately, little is known about the location of regional concentrations of these birds, thus regional or statewide conservation efforts may be inappropriately applied, reducing their effectiveness. We identified environmental covariates associated with the abundance of five grassland birds in the upper midwestern United States (Bobolink [Dolichonyx oryzivorus], Grasshopper Sparrow [Ammodramus savannarum], Henslow's Sparrow [A. henslowii], Sedge Wren [Cistothorus platensis], and Upland Sandpiper [Bartramia longicauda]) with a hierarchical spatial count model fitted with Markov chain Monte Carlo methods. Markov chain Monte Carlo methods are well suited to this task because they are able to incorporate effects associated with autocorrelated counts and nuisance effects associated with years and observers, and the resulting models can be used to map predicted abundance at a landscape scale. Environmental covariates were derived from five suites of variables: landscape composition, landscape configuration, terrain heterogeneity and physiognomy, climate, and human influence. The final models largely conformed to our a priori expectations. Bobolinks and Henslow's Sparrows were strongly sensitive to grassland patch area. All of the species except Henslow's Sparrows exhibited substantial negative relations with forest composition, often at multiple spatial scales. Climate was found to be important for all species, and was the most important factor influencing abundance of Grasshopper Sparrows. After mapping predicted abundance, we found no obvious correspondence in the regional patterns of the five species. Thus, no clearly defined areas exist within the upper midwestern United States where management plans can be developed for a whole suite of grassland birds. Instead, a larger, region-wide initiative setting different goals for different species is recommended. /// Las aves de pastizales forman uno de los grupos ms amenazados de aves en Norte Amrica. Desafortunadamente, se conoce poco acerca de la ubicacin de las concentraciones regionales de estas aves, por lo que los esfuerzos regionales o estatales de conservacin podran estar siendo aplicados inadecuadamente, reduciendo su efectividad. En este estudio empleamos un modelo espacial jerrquico basado en conteos y ajustado mediante mtodos de cadenas de Markov Monte Carlo para identificar las covariables ambientales asociadas con la abundancia de cinco especies de aves de pastizales (Dolichonyx oryzivorus, Ammodramus savannarum, A. henslowii, Cistothorus platensis y Bartramia longicauda) en la parte alta del medio oeste de los Estados Unidos. Los mtodos de cadenas de Markov Monte Carlo son adecuados para este propsito pues tienen la habilidad de incorporar efectos asociados con conteos autocorrelacionados y efectos no deseados asociados con los aos y los observadores. Adems, los modelos resultantes pueden emplearse para mapear predicciones sobre la abundancia a la escala de paisaje. Las covariables ambientales fueron derivadas a partir de cinco grupos de variables: composicin del paisaje, configuracin del paisaje, heterogeneidad y fisonoma del terreno, clima e influencia humana. Los modelos finales se ajustaron estrechamente a nuestras expectativas planteadas a priori. Las especies D. oryzivorus y A. henslowii fueron bastante sensibles al rea de los parches de pastizal. Todas las especies excepto A. henslowii presentaron relaciones negativas significativas con la composicin del bosque, a menudo a varias escalas espaciales. El clima result ser importante para todas las especies y fue el factor que ms fuertemente influenci la abundancia de A. savannarum. Luego de mapear las abundancias predichas, no encontramos correspondencia en los patrones regionales de las cinco especies. Por lo tanto, no existen reas claramente definidas en la parte alta del medio oeste de los Estados Unidos en donde puedan desarrollarse planes de manejo para todo un conjunto de aves de pastizales. En cambio, se recomienda emprender una iniciativa mayor a nivel regional en la que se proponga alcanzar diferentes metas para las distintas especies. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090055|Swainson's Warbler (
10.2307/1369560|The acceptability of a nest to more than one species and the convergence of species on a nest niche is demonstrated through nest usurpation. I compiled examples of nest usurpation from the literature to examine patterns regarding the species and nest sites that tend to be usurped, those species likely to be usurpers, and the habitats in which usurpation occurs. Cavities and enclosed nests are more likely to be usurped than cup nests. Species that excavate or build these types of nests, like the Picidae and the Furnariidae, are likely to be the hosts of usurpers. Particular groups are prone to usurping nests, including introduced species like the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) and European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris). Cavity usurpations were more likely to be observed in temperate than tropical/subtropical zones, and about equally likely to be observed in closed and open habitats, while enclosed nest usurpations were observed more frequently in open than closed habitats, and more often in tropical/subtropical than temperate zones. Usurpation of all nest types is more likely to occur in tropical/subtropical zones than expected, based on the number of studies in the literature conducted in these zones. Usurpation of all nest types is less likely to occur in open, and more likely to occur in moderately open habitats than expected, based on the number of studies in the literature conducted in these habitats. Instances of cavity usurpation, recorded primarily in temperate zones, across a variety of habitats, do not contribute to these general patterns. Nest-site convergence through nest usurpation may be more likely to occur in moderately open tropical habitats because of: 1) the availability of enclosed nests, 2) the limited structural heterogeneity of the vegetation, which limits the possibility of nest-niche partitioning, and 3) the high diversity of potential nest competitors and predators. In such environments, interspecific nesting associations may be a more effective generalized nest defense strategy than using a nest site that is difficult to find.
10.1525/cond.2013.110179|Guilds of species that share ecological similarities or recent ancestors are often the basis of studies concerning habitat partitioning. An interesting result of many of these studies is that means of partitioning in one area of sympatry may be different from those in disjunct areas of overlap. Here, we quantified the differences in habitat preference of two forest thrushes in the southern Appalachian Mountains. The Hermit Thrush (
40072412|The Pacific island of Rota is part of the Mariana archipelago, and is located approximately 60 km north of the island of Guam. Two Rota endemics, the Mariana Crow (
10.2307/1368955|Female Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) incubated eggs longer and fed chicks more often than males, whereas males spent more time maintaining and defending the nesting burrow. Although time together was greatest during the pre-laying period, pair members were apart most of the time, suggesting limited mate guarding. Males attempt extra-pair copulations, but because copulations occurred on the water where females can dive to escape, copulations were never forced and may have been successful only between mates. These data suggest that the paired female's ability and willingness to prevent mating with additional males may be important in the evolution of mate guarding. Sex differences in time budgets and male mating attempts were consistent with suggestions that even with shared parental care in monogamous species, females invest more in direct care of the young (parental effort), while males invest more in territorial defense and attempted extra matings (mating effort).
1370583| We determined the effects of a leg-harness transmitter on fecal glucocorticoid levels of wild male Dickcissels (Spiza americana) in captivity. During the postbreeding season of 2001, we captured 10 male Dickcissels in central Missouri and housed them in individual pens of an outdoor aviary. We radio-tagged five birds; the other five were captured and handled, but were not radio-tagged. We collected fecal samples every other day prior to attachment (31 July-21 August) and after attachment (24 August-20 September). Body condition and morphology were similar between control and transmitter-equipped birds. We observed a significant interaction between transmitter attachment and time since attachment. Compared to baseline levels, fecal glucocorticoid metabolites were significantly lower in control (6.1  13.7 ng g<sup>-1</sup>) than transmitter-equipped (102.3  13.7 ng g<sup>-1</sup>) birds during the first 24 hr after attachment. Although transmitter-equipped birds showed elevated fecal glucocorticoid levels, the response was acute and returned to baseline levels within 48 hr. /// Determinamos los efectos de poner un transmisor con arns de pata en los niveles de glucocorticoides fecales de machos silvestres de Spiza americana en cautiverio. Durante la temporada post-reproductiva de 2001, capturamos 10 individuos de S. americana en la parte central de Missouri y hospedamos estas aves en jaulas individuales que formaban parte de un aviario al aire libre. Pusimos radio-transmisores en slo cinco de estos pjaros, los otros cinco slo fueron capturados y manipulados. Colectamos muestras fecales en das alternados antes (31 julio-21 agosto) y despus (24 agosto-20 septiembre) de poner los transmisores. La condicin corporal y morfologa fueron similares entre individuos con transmisor y individuos control. Observamos una interaccin significativa entre poner los transmisores y el tiempo desde que fueron puestos. Comparados con niveles iniciales, hubo diferencias significativas en los metabolitos de los glucocorticoides fecales entre los pjaros control (6.1  13.7 ng g<sup>-1</sup>) y con transmisores (102.3  13.7 ng g<sup>-1</sup>) durante las primeras 24 hr despues de ponerlos. Aunque los pjaros con transmisores mostraron niveles elevados de glucocorticoides fecales, la respuesta aguda regres a niveles iniciales en menos de 48 hr. 
40072453|Male secondary sexual characters can provide females with information regarding the fertilizing capacity of a male's sperm. In some fishes and birds, intense nuptial coloration is correlated with male fertilizing capacity, but no mechanistic link between coloration and sperm quality has been established. One plausible mechanism is that carotenoid pigments, which color skin and feathers in many animals, are present in seminal fluid and serve as antioxidant protectors of sperm. We used high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to analyze sperm samples from four species of Australian fairy-wren (
10.2307/1368910|Observations were made and playback experiments were performed in central Kentucky in an attempt to determine the function(s) of singing by female Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis). Singing by female cardinals was uncommon and was noted primarily during the period after males had established territories and before nesting had begun (early March to mid-May). When singing, females were generally joined by singing mates. Experiments revealed that females rarely sang in response to playback of male or female songs. Such evidence suggests that singing by female Northern Cardinals is important in pair bonding and, perhaps, in reproductive synchronization.
10.2307/1368732| The thermal and respiratory physiology of the Spinifex Pigeon (Geophaps plumifera) is generally similar to that expected for a 90-g nonpasserine bird. The body temperature is 40.5 to 41.8C except during thermal stress. The thermoneutral zone extends from about 35 to 45C. The basal metabolic rate (0.85 ml O
40072384|I investigated survival, recruitment, and dispersal in the Hawai'i 'Elepaio (
3247758| We studied the impacts of low density, exurban housing developments on Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) breeding in small forest fragments in two regions of rural southern Ontario. In both regions, Wood Thrushes breeding in woodlots with embedded houses (housing penetrating the forest border) experienced significantly higher rates of parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) than Wood Thrushes breeding in woodlots with adjacent houses (houses within 100 m of the forest edge), or undeveloped woodlots (no houses within 100 m of the forest edge). Wood Thrushes breeding in Peterborough area woodlots with embedded or adjacent houses experienced significantly increased rates of nest predation compared to Wood Thrushes breeding in undeveloped woodlots. This increased nest predation resulted in significant reductions in seasonal productivity in developed woodlots. No increase in nest predation was experienced by Wood Thrushes nesting in developed woodlots in the Ottawa region. The effects of housing developments appear to be region-specific and may depend on other factors influencing the overall abundance of cowbirds. /// Estudiamos los impactos de la construccin en baja densidad de viviendas peri-urbanas sobre individuos de Hylocichla mustelina que se encontraron criando en fragmentos pequeos de bosque en dos regiones rurales del sur de Ontario. En ambas regiones, los individuos de H. mustelina que se reprodujeron en bosques donde haba casas inmersas (que penetraban el borde del bosque) experimentaron tasas de parasitismo por Molothrus ater significativamente mayores que los individuos criando en bosques con casas adyacentes (dispuestas a menos de 100 m del borde del bosque), o en bosques no alterados por la presencia de casas (a ms de 100 m del borde del bosque). Los individuos de H. mustelina que se encontraron criando en reas boscosas de Peterborough, donde las casas estaban adentro o adyacentes al bosque, experimentaron incrementos significativos en las tasas de depredacin de nidos comparados con individuos que criaron en bosques no alterados. Este incremento en la depredacin de nidos llev a reducciones significativas en la productividad estacional en los bosques con viviendas. No registramos un incremento en la depredacin de nidos de H. mustelina en bosques con viviendas en la regin de Ottawa. Los efectos de la construccin de viviendas parecen estar relacionados de modo especfico con la regin y podran depender de otros factores que influencian la abundancia de M. ater. 
10.2307/1368180|Incubation attendance by Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) was determined by daily nest monitoring. The incidence of natural egg neglect was highest during the first third of the incubation period (incubation length of 38 days when parents were continuously present) and lowest between 12 and 25 days after laying. The latter corresponds to the period of most rapid embryonic growth rate. The pattern of auklet embryo metabolism is similar to that of other precocial species with prolonged incubation periods, with two differences: unpipped auklet embryos show their most rapid rise in metabolic rate relatively earlier in the incubation period. Auklet embryos have an unusually long plateau (10 days) in metabolic rate before beginning pipping. A rapid increase in metabolism is coincident with the five- to seven-day hatching process. Embryos surviving chilling had lower metabolic rates (after rewarming) than continuously incubated eggs of the same chronological age. The reduction of metabolic rate and resulting retarded development may account for the prolonged duration of incubation observed for both naturally and experimentally neglected auklet eggs.
10.2307/1369649|We measured the costs of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism incurred by Field Sparrows (Spizella pusilla) and Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea). We predicted that the frequent occurrence of nest desertion as a response to cowbird parasitism in Field Sparrows would be reflected by a higher cost of parasitism for that species. We also compared growth and survival of cowbird nestlings between hosts, predicting that they would do poorly at Field Sparrow nests because the latter appear to be avoided by cowbirds. Both species experienced reduced body mass gain in parasitized broods, but only Indigo Bunting suffered reduced tarsus growth. Both species experienced reductions in clutch size, hatching success, and nestling survival due to parasitism, but these losses did not differ among the two hosts. Multiple parasitism did not affect hatching success or nestling survival more than single parasitism for Indigo Buntings. Once accepted, cowbird offspring fared equally well in nests of both species, but almost half of all cowbird eggs laid in Field Sparrow nests were lost through nest abandonment. As parasitism costs to both species appear to be substantial, the rarity of nest desertion in Indigo Buntings may be due to other factors. Infrequent parasitism of Field Sparrows is consistent with host avoidance by cowbirds but other explanations should be explored.
10.2307/1369172|We used at-sea censuses to quantify pelagic behavior, relationships between density and habitat variables, and to estimate population size of four taxa of procellariids in the eastern tropical Pacific: subspecies of Puffinus auricularis (Townsend's Shearwater, P. a auricularis, and Newell's Shearwater, P. a. newelli) and subspecies of Pterodroma phaeopygia (Galapagos Dark-rumped Petrel, Pt. p. phaeopygia, and Hawaiian Dark-rumped Petrel, Pt. p. sandwichensis). All are considered threatened or endangered with extinction. Birds commuting from colonies ranged 650 km (P. a auricularis) to 1,300 km (P. a. newelli and Pt. p. sandwichensis). P. a. auricularis foraged at upwelling fronts in the Costa Rica Current over the continental slope of Mexico, while P. a. newelli preferred ocean fronts in the Equatorial Counter Current. Unlike the shearwaters, petrel densities correlated most strongly with distance to the colony and wind speed, although the two petrels each foraged in distinctly different current systems. Foraging behavior of the shearwaters was energy demanding, but they frequented highly productive feeding areas and rested often. The petrels appeared to forage more opportunistically and conserved energy by flying more efficiently. Foraging behavior was consistent with wing morphology of each group. Pelagic population estimates (adults and subadults grouped) were 46,000 P. a. auricularis, confidence interval (CI) = 18,000 to 89,000; 84,000 P. a. newelli, CI = 57,000 to 115,000; 19,000 Pt. p. sandwichensis, CI = 11,000 to 34,000; and 88,000 Pt. p. phaeopygia, CI = 54,000 to 130,000. On the basis of breeder to non-breeder ratios in these and closely related species, we estimated breeding populations of 10,600, 18,000-19,000, 3,750-4,500, and 20,000 pairs, respectively. Calculation of minimal and maximum estimates indicated breeding populations larger than previously thought for P. a. auricularis, P. a. newelli, and Pt. p. sandwichensis, but similar for Pt. p. phaeopygia.
10.2307/1369648|The extent and spatial pattern of song-type sharing among neighboring males in one subspecies of Song Sparrow, Melospiza melodia cooperi, were examined in two San Diego County populations. Repertoire size averaged 9.6 song types per male (range 7 to 14). Song-type sharing was greatest between neighbors and declined with distance between territories. Adjacent neighbors shared an average of 22% of their song types. Variation in the amount of sharing between adjacent territory owners was high, ranging from 0% to 86% repertoire overlap. Results are consistent with the expected pattern produced by age-restricted learners that attempt to establish territories near tutors. The probability of a male surviving and remaining on his territory through the breeding and nonbreeding season increased as the fraction of song types shared with adjacent neighbors increased. The amount of song-type sharing may therefore be an indicator of a male's competitive ability to obtain a preferred territory near his tutors, or it may determine a male's effectiveness in using shared and unshared song types to communicate aggressive intentions.
10.2307/1369185| Parasitic Jaegers (Stercorarius parasiticus) are thought to rely exclusively on kleptoparasitism of seabirds to obtain their food while on migration. We investigated this dependence of fall migrating birds at a stopover located on the shore of the St. Lawrence River, Qubec. We found that in addition to kleptoparasitism, jaegers also preyed upon invertebrates (Gammarus spp.), ducks, and shorebirds. Small Calidris sandpipers were chased more often than expected according to their availability whereas Black-bellied Plovers (Pluvialis squatarola) were chased less often. The capture rate was independent of the type of shorebird chased. Capture rate was not influenced by the number of jaegers (one to five) participating in a chase. The number of jaegers, however, significantly affected the per capita hunting yield through prey defense against gulls; pair members obtained the highest yield. Predation of shorebirds was mainly performed by territorial jaegers which restrained other jaegers from the main hunting area. Kleptoparasitic interactions were mostly aimed at Common Terns (Sterna hirundo), which were chased more often than expected considering their availability, whereas Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) and Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) were chased less often. Terns were more likely to drop food than kittiwakes. The success rate at inducing a tern to drop a fish increased with jaegers' group size (one to seven), whereas the per capita feeding yield decreased. No such trend was observed when jaegers chased kittiwakes. Occurrence of predation and kleptoparasitic events was influenced by tide and time of day. 
10.2307/1368616|Song variation was studied in Gambel's White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii), breeding in tundra and boreal forest habitats near Churchill, Manitoba. No significant differences were found among habitats in song characteristics of Z. l. gambelii. Songs of Churchill birds had the same sequence of elements (i.e., whistle, warble, buzz, and trill) as Alaskan populations, with some variations in element form. The absence of dialects in migratory populations of White-crowned Sparrows supports predictions of the Ranging Hypothesis.
10.2307/1370223|Variation in microscopic characters of plumulaceous barbs of six species of Charadrius was studied to quantify characters and test differences among taxa. Pluvialis squatarola was used for intergeneric comparisons. Intraspecific variation in feathers from the sternopectoral tract of C. vociferus was examined to define character parameters and to determine within-vane variation and vane symmetry. A significant difference was observed among the barbs of four regions within each vane of the same feather, but barbs from opposing vanes were not significantly different from one another. Interspecific variation then was studied using discriminant function analysis. Pluvialis separated from all species of Charadrius. Two subgroups were apparent within Charadrius: semipalmatus, vociferus and montanus separated from wilsonia, alexandrinus and melodus.
10.2307/1368195| Acorn Woodpeckers live in extremely stable kin groups. Nonetheless, only 59.9% of birds caught in roosting aggregations gave distress calls or fear screams. Distress calling was highly repeatable among individuals and apparently heritable. However, the incidence of distress calling did not vary seasonally or according to age, sex, or status. Also, with two marginally significant exceptions, distress calls did not vary consistently with group characteristics or with the composition of roosting aggregations. Screams did not attract conspecifics, but sometimes attracted large mammalian predators. These results fail to support Rohwer's (1975) "calling for help" hypothesis and instead are consistent with Hgstedt's (1983) "predator attraction" hypothesis that distress calls function to attract secondary predators that will distract or dispute the original predator, thereby inadvertently allowing the caller to escape. 
10.2307/1367253|A model for grouse and ptarmigan relating the digestibility of their winter foods to their body weights and gut lengths is presented. The observed digestibility of a food depends partly on the "digestive abilities" of the birds eating it, partly on the food's intrinsic digestibility, and partly on daily intakes. Digestive abilities of the birds vary as much intraspecifically as interspecifically.
10.2307/1367392|We sampled the songs of 18 populations of montane Whitecrowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) in order to define their dialect groups, if any, and to explore vocal affinities with other western subspecies of Z. leucophrys. We found a clear-cut regional differentiation of song primarily on the basis of syllabic morphology and secondarily on the sequence of elements in the song. The birds of the Sierra Nevada and the San Bernardino Mountains of California constitute a fairly homogeneous dialect group related to another distinct group in the Warner Mountains, California, which are separated from the Sierra Nevada to the north by habitat unsuited to breeding oriantha. Those in two nearby but isolated desert ranges share a unique song type resembling that of Z. l. gambelii. Oriantha in the Wallowa Mountains, Oregon, to the northeast of the Steens Mountains, are allied with the dialect region of the northern Rocky Mountains. Syllabic morphology and the sequence of song elements also suggest certain vocal affinities of oriantha with other western subspecies of Z. leucophrys. For instance, the songs of oriantha in the Sierra Nevada, Warner Mountains, and San Bernardino Mountains have elements in common with those of nuttalli in central California and pugetensis north of the Columbia River. The songs of oriantha at Hart Mountain and in the Steens Mountains are very similar to those of gambelii in Alaska and the western Canadian Rockies. The songs of oriantha in the San Bernardino Mountains (a population founded after 1907) are identical with those of the central Sierra Nevada, and thus trace the origin of the founding group. We postulate that these and other data are consistent with Rand's interpretation of the subspecific differentiation of these sparrows in Pleistocene refugia.
10.2307/1368204|Examination of beached corpses of 244 Sooty Shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) from the southwestern Cape, South Africa, showed that simple descendent primary molt occurs from December to June, with most records being in the months of February and March. Based on percentage feather mass grown, primary molt takes a mean of 159 days for completion, with mean estimated starting and completion dates of 2 January and 10 June. Because the completion of breeding extends from late March to early May, the birds studied cannot have bred successfully in the previous austral summer and were probably prebreeders. Unlike the situation in the North Pacific Ocean, Sooty Shearwaters in the North Atlantic Ocean do not undergo primary molt. The hypothesis that Sooty Shearwaters of breeding age migrate preferentially into the North Pacific, whereas young birds first molt in the South Atlantic Ocean before migrating into the North Atlantic, needs to be tested by extensive banding of birds at the breeding localities.
10.1525/cond.2010.090039|The Neotropical Region has experienced large habitat transformations as a result of intensified agriculture. These changes have affected the populations of many species of birds in the Espinal ecoregion of Argentina. However, relationships between birds and agriculture in the neotropics are poorly known. We assessed the effects of crops and field margins in an area of agriculture typical for the Espinal ecoregion on the structure of the bird community, and we assessed the value of this habitat for species of conservation concern. Birds and vegetation were sampled in and along the margins of fields of soybean (the most widespread crop) and alfalfa. Twenty-five of the 41 species recordedincluding all the species of conservation concernwere found almost exclusively in field margins; only five species occurred almost exclusively in within the fields. All other species were found in both margins and fields. Density, richness, and diversity were much greater on the margins than in the fields. Bird density in soy fields was lower than in alfalfa. Bird richness and diversity in the two crops, however, did not differ. Density in field margins increased with the cover and height of trees and shrubs. Most of the field-margin species were woodland-border species, but the species of conservation concern were all associated with grassy field margins. Because further declines in the populations of these threatened species are expected, their conservation in agricultural areas would benefit from a broad policy of habitat-conservation plans for field margins such as those practiced in North America and Europe.
10.2307/1368382|Wing shape among Dark-eyed Juncos, Junco hyemalis, (as described by principal components analysis of eight wing measurements) varied significantly with capture date during the fall migration in southwestern Pennsylvania. We assessed the relationship between this variation and the differential timing of migration among and within age/sex classes in a sample of 463 juncos. Differential timing of migration among morphologically distinct age/sex classes accounted for most of the temporal variation in wing shape. Adult juncos tended to migrate earlier than immatures and females tended to precede males. Significant variation remained, however, even after accounting for differential timing of age/sex classes. Specifically, wing shape varied with capture date among adult males and among immature males. Although some components of wing shape were correlated with body mass in juncos, body mass did not vary with capture date. Temporal variation in wing shape among Dark-eyed Juncos caught during fall migration seems to be the complex result of differential timing of migration both among and within age/sex classes. Variation in the distance migrated and/or timing of prebasic molt may contribute to these differences in migratory timing.
10.2307/1367448|Experiments were conducted to evaluate the effect of protein, metabolizable energy, and sulfur amino acid content of five diets upon growth and development of captive Florida Sandhill Crane (Grus canadensis pratensis) and Greater Sandhill Crane (G. c. tabida) chicks raised under controlled conditions. A high protein (32%) diet resulted in faster growth than that obtained when a lower protein (24%) ration was supplied. Florida Sandhill Crane chicks fed a diet containing 2,160 kcal/kg grew significantly slower than chicks fed a ration containing 2,830 kcal/kg. Reducing the sulfur amino acid content of a ration containing 24% protein from 0.88% to 0.73% significantly slowed the growth of young cranes. A 17% incidence of leg disorders and a 25% incidence of wing abnormalities occurred between 7 and 28 days of age among Greater Sandhill Cranes fed a high protein diet. Florida Sandhill Cranes grew slower than Greater Sandhill Cranes irrespective of the type of ration they were provided and did not develop leg or wing abnormalities. Abnormalities invariably developed only in the most rapidly growing Greater Sandhill Cranes. Diets that promoted slower growth reduced the incidence of abnormalities. A ration formulated to contain a low (0.73%) sulfur amino acid level appeared to be the most suitable for slowing growth rates of captive-reared Sandhill Cranes and reducing the risk of abnormal wing or leg development.
10.2307/1369758|Foraging rates and maneuvers were examined in breeding female Red-faced Warblers (Cardellina rubrifrons) among egg-laying, incubation, and nestling stages. All measures varied among nesting stages, with prey attack rate and search speed significantly increasing from egg-laying to incubation through the nestling stage. During egg-laying and incubation, birds gleaned stationary prey from a fixed perch, but shifted to hover-sallying for stationary prey during the nestling period. These dynamic behavioral patterns may reflect responses to variable time constraints and energetic costs associated with different stages of the nesting cycle.
10.1525/cond.2010.090118|Brood-parasitic cowbirds (
10.2307/1369958|The behavior of Black Swifts was studied in southern California from 1990 to 1992. Four types of aerial interactions were distinguished: (a) group chase, (b) pair chase, (c) pair contact, and (d) touch and grasp. The latter two interactions can be intraspecific or interspecific. Aerial copulation was not observed. Nestlings, from age 18 days onward, and adults gave hostile or deterrence displays by wing-raising. Begging by nestlings was silent but aggressive toward the adult. Silent begging may be an antipredator strategy for a species that produces a single chick per season. Nestlings have a far more conspicuous white facial marking than adults; this may function as a target signal to guide food delivery in the dimly lit nesting conditions and as an aid for the adult to find the nest when arriving late at night. Adults roosted on the nest for the first half of the nestling period and then most roosted on the cave walls. During incubation and early brooding, an adult always remained at the nest, and food transfer between adults was observed during this period.
10.2307/1370277|Artificial nests frequently are used to assess levels and patterns of nest predation, but how well these nests measure rates of predation or trends in predation rates at real nests is unclear. We compared predation rates between 58 active Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) nests paired with 58 artificial nests designed to resemble Wood Thrush nests. Paired nests were available to the same predator community both spatially and temporally. Rates of nest predation were significantly lower for active Wood Thrush nests (33%) than for artificial nests (64%). Rates of parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) also differed between the two groups. Twenty-six percent of active nests and none of the artificial nests were parasitized by cowbirds. During 1993 and 1994, we conducted three artificial nest trials on six study sites per year. Rates of predation were highest in small woodlots and declined with increasing forest patch size consistent with the trend reported for active nests on the same sites. Within sites, rates of predation varied among trials with the amount of variation highest on sites with high predation rates. Our results suggest that although artificial nests should not be used to measure actual rates of nest predation or parasitism, they may be valuable for detecting trends in rates of predation. However, because there are many potential biases associated with the use of artificial nests that may make interpretation of trend data difficult, we recommend using artificial nests primarily in pilot studies or in conjunction with active nests.
10.2307/1370303|Silvicultural practices following clearcutting in boreal forest may encourage the creation of monospecific, single-aged stands having less vegetation heterogeneity and diversity than original stands. We conducted point counts in central Saskatchewan, Canada, 1993-1995, in pure and mixedwood stands dominated by black spruce (Picea mariana), jackpine (Pinus banksiana), trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides), or white spruce (Picea glauca). Mixedwood stands supported more individuals and more species than pure stands. Higher abundance in mixedwood stands relative to pure stands was consistent among nesting guilds and migration strategies. Rarefaction revealed similar patterns, although pure trembling aspen stands were predicted to support more species than aspen-dominated mixedwood stands. Increased avian diversity in mixedwood stands was not solely the result of the mixing of bird species associated with coniferous or deciduous forest types. Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina), Pine Siskin (Carduelis pinus), White-winged Crossbill (Loxia leucoptera), Red-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta canadensis), Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), and Tennessee Warbler (Vermivora peregrina) were more abundant in mixedwood stands than pure stands. Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens), Magnolia Warbler (D. magnolia), and Blackburnian Warbler (D. fusca) were abundant in stands dominated by white spruce but were absent from jackpine or black spruce. Other species such as American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) and Chestnut-sided Warbler (D. pensylvanica) relied exclusively on pure trembling aspen, particularly stands with dense shrub cover. Several bird species in the boreal forest will be adversely affected by forestry practices that target mature to old aspen and white spruce mixedwoods and promote reduction in mixedwood compositions of regenerating stands.
10.2307/1368384|The Wrentit (Chamaea fasciata) has been reported to raise only one brood per year. Nesting data on a marked known-age population of Wrentits in central coastal California revealed that 20% of the breeding pairs during the 4 years 1982-1985 attempted a second brood after successfully fledging young from an earlier brood. The probability of a pair attempting a double brood significantly decreased the later the first clutch was completed. No second broods were attempted if the first clutch was completed later than 5 May (14% of breeding pairs) or if the first attempt failed (41%). The remaining pairs (24%) attempted only one brood although they appeared to have the opportunity to attempt two broods. Adults attempting a second brood reduced the amount of postfledging care given to the young of the previous brood. Double-brooding individuals tended to be older, have better nest survivorship, and fledged significantly more young per season than single-brooding individuals. Survival of the adults to the next breeding season was independent of the number of broods attempted. Young males had significantly lower nest success than older males and young females began nesting significantly later than older females, which may explain the lower incidence of double brooding in young birds.
10.2307/1368481|Insectivorous bird flocks were observed in all types of forested habitats during the nonbreeding season in western Mexico. The species composition of flocks changed markedly and predictably among five categories of habitat type. The average number of species per flock in lowland habitats was 4.7, while a mean of 18.6 species participated in highland flocks, ranking the latter among the most species-rich flocks in the world. The mean proportion of the local insectivorous species that participated in mixed-species flocks was significantly greater in the highlands (61.3%) than in the lowlands (24.6%). About half of the flock participants in both undisturbed lowland and highland habitats were north temperate migrants, ranking west Mexican flocks among the most migrant-rich in the world as well. In highland flocks, the maximum number of individuals per attendant species was generally two to three, but there were often six to twelve individuals belonging to each of several nuclear species. The lowland deciduous forest flocks seemed to lack nuclear species.
10.2307/1367823|The nesting ecology of Western Grebes (Aechmophorus occidentalis) was studied at Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge, Utah, in 1973 and 1974. Western Grebes nested on dry land, emergent vegetation, and in open-water areas in colonies and single nests. They selected sites near open water (approximately 30 cm in depth). At least one young hatched in 21% of the nests. Avian predation and abandonment of nests caused the largest losses. Mated pairs produced an average of 1.7 young.
10.2307/3247721|We assessed the flocking behavior of birds on St. John and St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands, with systematic surveys along trails in moist forests. Winter residents (species breeding in North America and that winter in the Virgin Islands), all of which were warblers, comprised 91% of the individuals found in 28 flocks but only 49% of solitary individuals. The average flock size was 4.0 individuals of 3.1 species, and did not differ between St. John and St. Thomas even though the average forest tract on St. John (1,000 ha) was much larger than on St. Thomas (62 ha). Northern Parula (Parula americana) and Black-and-white Warbler (Mniotilta varia), the most common species in flocks, occurred in 76% and 79% of the flocks, respectively. Northern Parula flocked significantly more frequently on St. Thomas than on St. John, but no other species showed a difference in flocking behavior between the two islands. Each flock typically included one individual of each species.
40072368|Obligate brood parasites should synchronize parasitism with host laying to maximize egg hatchability and chick survival. While the generalist Shiny (
40306169|In some seabirds sexually dimorphic in size, males and females segregate at sea or diverge in other aspects of foraging behavior. We examined factors influencing foraging strategies of Cory's Shearwater and compared the sexes' flight morphology and activity patterns. Trip duration, incubation-shift length, total mass gain, and rate of mass gain at sea of birds from our two study colonies differed. The colonies are situated in regions of contrasting oceanographic conditions: Selvagem Grande, a remote subtropical oceanic island, and Berlengas, an island on the Portuguese continental shelf. Although the wing loading and wing span of males and females breeding at Selvagem Grande differed significantly, sex did not consistently influence activity patterns of Cory's Shearwaters foraging at sea during the incubation period. Moreover, both sexes breeding at Selvagem Grande foraged in areas with similar sea-surface temperatures. Our study suggests that sexual differences in size and shape may be poor predictors of differentiation in the ways male and female pelagic seabirds use the marine environment.
10.2307/1369642|We studied vigilance while sleeping in wintering Gadwalls (Anas strepera) in the Camargue (southern France) during the 1992-1993 and 1994-1995 winters. Vigilance while sleeping was reduced at the beginning and at the end of the winter. During mid-winter, birds in sleeping posture showed the highest level of vigilance, with longer peeks and shorter interpeek intervals. There was no effect of sex on the intensity of vigilant sleep, nor on changes in the pattern of vigilant sleep across the winter period. We discuss the results in relation to the behavioral ecology and energetic constraints of wintering Gadwalls in the Camargue. We suggest that the variation in sleep, measured by eye-closure, and vigilance, measured by eye-opening, in relation to winter period is a result of a trade-off between two opposite requirements: to save energy by sleeping and to monitor the environment by being vigilant.
4122506| T-cell mediated immune response (CMI) has been widely studied in relation to individual and fitness components in birds. However, few studies have simultaneously examined individual and social factors and habitat-mediated variance in the immunity of chicks and adults from the same population and in the same breeding season. We investigated ecological and physiological variance in CMI of male and female nestlings and adults in a breeding population of Cory's Shearwaters (Calonectris diomedea) in the Mediterranean Sea. Explanatory variables included individual traits (body condition, carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios, plasma total proteins, triglycerides, uric acid, osmolarity, -hydroxy-butyrate, erythrocyte mean corpuscular diameter, hematocrit, and hemoglobin) and burrow traits (temperature, isolation, and physical structure). During incubation, immune response of adult males was significantly greater than that of females. Nestlings exhibited a lower immune response than adults. Ecological and physiological factors affecting immune response differed between adults and nestlings. General linear models showed that immune response in adult males was positively associated with burrow isolation, suggesting that males breeding at higher densities suffer immune system suppression. In contrast, immune response in chicks was positively associated with body condition and plasma triglyceride levels. Therefore, adult immune response appears to be associated with social stress, whereas a trade-off between immune function and fasting capability may exist for nestlings. Our results, and those from previous studies, provide support for an asymmetrical influence of ecological and physiological factors on the health of different age and sex groups within a population, and for the importance of simultaneously considering individual and population characteristics in intraspecific studies of immune response. /// La respuesta inmune mediada por linfocitos T (CMI) ha sido ampliamente estudiada en aves en relacin a la variabilidad individual y los componentes de la eficacia biologica. Sin embargo, son pocos los estudios que han examinado simultneamente la variacin en inmunidad debida a factores individuates, sociales o relacionados con el tipo de hbitat, diferenciando entre pollos y adultos de la misma poblacin y durante el mismo periodo reproductor. Hemos investigado la varianza ecolgica y fisiolgica en la CMI de adultos y pollos de ambos sexos en una poblacin reproductora de Calonectris diomedea en el mar Mediterrneo. Entre las variables explicativas se incluyeron atributos individuales (condicin fsica, niveles de istopos estables de nitrgeno y carbono, protenas totales, triglicridos, cido rico, osmolaridad y -hidroxybutirato plasmticos, dimetro corpuscular medio eritrocitario, hematocrito y hemoglobina), as como atributos de las huras (temperatura, aislamiento y estructura fsica). Durante la incubacin, la respuesta inmune de los adultos fue significativamente mayor en machos que en hembras. Los polios mostraron una menor respuesta inmune que los adultos. Los factores ecolgicos y fisiolgicos que afectaron a la respuesta inmune difirieron entre adultos y pollos. Los modelos lineales generalizados mostraron que la respuesta inmune en machos adultos estuvo positivamente asociada con el grado de aislamiento de la hura, lo que sugiere que los machos que cran en altas densidades de conespecficos sufren una depresin de su sistema inmunitario. En cambio, la respuesta inmune de los polios estuvo positivamente asociada con su condicin fsica y los niveles de triglicridos en sangre. As, la respuesta inmune de los adultos pareci estar parcialmente asociada con el estrs social, mientras que en los pollos puede existir un compromiso entre la funcin inmune y la capacidad de ayuno. Estos resultados y la comparacin con los de estudios previos, sugieren la existencia de una asimetra en la influencia de los factores ecolgicos y fisiolgicos sobre la salud de las diferentes clases de edad y sexo en una poblacin, as como la importancia de considerar simultneamente caractersticas individuates y poblacionales en los estudios de respuesta inmune a nivel intraespecfico. 
10.2307/1367991|In the scrub habitat along the central California coast, Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) are sympatric with White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys). Songs of male White-crowned Sparrows exhibit dialects and it was previously thought that these might be initiated by a founder effect. This hypothesis could be tested weakly by looking for concordant dialect systems among several songbird species in the same region. Given the known pattern of song variation in White-crowned Sparrows, I asked if vocal variation in Song Sparrows matched that of White-crowned Sparrows. Seven Song Sparrows were recorded at each of four sites located within the boundaries of three dialect areas of White-crowned Sparrows. Repertoire size of the Song Sparrows ranged from 6-18 songs (median 10). The 22 kinds of trills and 50 kinds of notes most commonly sung by Song Sparrows were examined for similarities among individuals and samples. Vocal sharing was not concordant with the dialects of White-crowned Sparrows. Only one or two types of notes or trills varied geographically in accordance with dialect variation in White-crowned Sparrows. Nor was there strong evidence for dialects in Song Sparrows that were discordant with those of White-crowned Sparrows. The results did not support the colonization hypothesis for the origin of dialects.
10.2307/1370239|Northern Shrikes (Lanius excubitor) are predatory songbirds in which both sexes sing much of the year. I experimentally tested the hypothesis that winter singing by Northern Shrikes serves the purpose of attracting small passerines to be captured as prey. I broadcast Northern Shrike song for 5 min while recording the number of small passerines that approached the tape player, time taken for approach to occur, nearest approach, and mean number of call notes given by each small passerine observed. A blank tape and the song of American Robin (Turdus migratorius) were controls. Treatment effect was significant for number of passerines observed, time taken for approach, and nearest approach, but not for the number of call notes given by each passerine. More small passerines were observed during the Northern Shrike song and these songbirds responded more quickly and approached more closely than during the control and robin treatments. These results support the hypothesis that Northern Shrikes acoustically lure prey.
10.2307/1370014|Dispersal in birds can be estimated in several ways, including the use of banding data and the indirect use of genetic data. This study uses both of these to estimate dispersal and genetic population structure in the European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) in North America. Banding data imply that natal dispersal is quite high, and this finding is supported by the observed rapid colonization of North America. Genetic data, based on allozyme allele frequencies from populations in Virginia, Vermont, Colorado, and California, are consistent with a species with large demes and high rates of dispersal.
10.2307/1368918|The hypothesis that food was limiting the population of the endangered Hawaiian Crow (Corvus hawaiiensis) was investigated by observing its foraging habits. This crow was an omnivore, feeding on a wide variety of items including fruits, invertebrates, flower nectar, mammals, plant parts, and passerine eggs and nestlings. It was also an opportunistic feeder, shifting to readily available resources. The crow was adept at finding passerine nests, using this high protein diet of nestlings and eggs during the passerine breeding season. Oha kepau (Clermontia spp.) and olapa (Cheirodendron trigynum) comprised the bulk of the fruits taken. Arachnida and Isopoda were the predominant invertebrates found in droppings. Crows used the upper half of the canopy of mature trees, especially ohia (Metrosideros collina) and koa (Acacia koa), for their daily activities. Although the sample size was small, in the study area food seemed to be reasonably plentiful, and the crows were adaptable. Therefore, other factors probably are restricting the population. Efforts to maintain present habitat of the Hawaiian Crow need to be increased, with emphasis on ensuring a temporally continuous source of food.
40306181|Invasive species are often implicated in population declines of native species because of predation. The red imported fire ant (
10.2307/1369419|We employed a "natural experiment" to evaluate the hypothesis that a major physical feature of high-latitude marine habitat, the percentage of the sea covered by pack ice, affects species composition among Antarctic seabirds. Our experiment entailed replicate transects through markedly altered physical habitat in the Scotia-Weddell Confluence: a series of storms caused the pack ice to advance and retreat rapidly and repeatedly over a 200-km-wide area. Regardless of where their habitat moved, pack-ice and open-water species occurred at significantly higher densities in the ice and open-water habitats, respectively. There were no time lags in the response of species to habitat alteration. In addition, pack-ice and open-water species had identical diets regardless of where their preferred habitat was located. These results supported the hypothesis and showed that physical rather than biological variables affect species composition among pelagic assemblages of Antarctic seabirds. Results supported the conclusion that a lack of appropriate adaptations constrain open-water species to reside away from the pack ice and that unremarkable prey availability fails to attract pack-ice species to open waters.
4122537| Crown-burned pine forests are an important breeding habitat for many cavity-nesting birds, and can serve as a source habitat for some woodpecker species. However, it is unclear if this function continues with postburn succession as predators recolonize burned habitats and snag density declines. Lewis's Woodpeckers (Melanerpes lewis) are considered "burn specialists" and are a species of conservation concern. We monitored Lewis's Woodpeckers nesting in ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests to determine the source or sink function of old-burn habitats in the Black Hills of South Dakota (study units burned in 1988 and 1991); concurrently, we examined avian and mammalian predator communities within burned and unburned areas. Between 2002 and 2005 we found 55 Lewis's Woodpecker nests, 51 of which were successful. Using adult and juvenile mortality rates for other melanerpine species taken from the literature, we determined that the old-burn habitats we sampled were acting as sources for Lewis's Woodpeckers. Point counts and tracking tube surveys suggested that both avian and mammalian predators had successfully recolonized these old-burn habitats, as both groups were common in old burns and in unburned forests. The unusually high nesting success of Lewis's Woodpeckers in the Black Hills is likely due to the absence of some common nest predators. While the high success rates might continue, we suggest that the overall contribution of young to the region from these burned sites will decline as suitable habitat components (such as snags) decline with the continuation of postfire succession. /// Los bosques de conferas cuyas copas de los rboles han sido quemadas son un hbitat importante para muchas especies de aves que anidan en cavidades y tambin pueden servir como un hbitat fuente para algunas especies de carpinteros. Sin embargo, no est claro si esta funcin contina con la sucesin post-quema cuando los depredadores comienzan a recolonizar el hbitat quemado y la densidad de rboles muertos en pi disminuye. El carpintero Melanerpes lewis es considerado especialista de hbitats quemados y es una especie en estado de conservacin vulnerable. Monitoreamos poblaciones de M. lewis que nidifican en pinos de la especie Pinus ponderosa en las montaas Black Hills en Dakota de Sur para determinar la funcin de fuente o sumidero de habitats quemados en el pasado (reas de estudio quemadas en 1988 y 1991), y para examinar las comunidades de depredadores (aves y mamferos) en las reas quemadas. Entre los aos 2002 y 2005 encontramos 55 nidos de M. lewis, 51 de los cuales fueron exitosos. Utilizando tasas de mortalidad de adultos y juveniles de otras especies del grupo melanerpine provenientes de la literatura, determinamos que los hbitats quemados en el pasado actuaron como hbitat fuente para M. lewis. Conteos en puntos y muestreos utilizando tubos de rastreo sugirieron que tanto los depredadores aviares como mamferos haban colonizado exitosamente estos hbitats quemados, ya que ambos grupos fueron abundantes en bosques quemados y no quemados. El xito de nidificacin inusualmente alto de M. lewis en nuestra rea de estudio se debe probablemente a la ausencia de algunos depredadores de nido comunes. Si bien las tasas de xito de nidificacin altas pueden continuar, sugerimos que la contribucin regional de juveniles desde estas reas quemadas disminuir conforme los componentes apropiados del hbitat (como los rboles muertos en pie) disminuyan con la progresin del proceso de sucesin post-quema. 
10.2307/1369461|During contests in Western Gulls, Larus occidentalis, we examined patterns of aggression in relation to sex, age class, and territorial status. Data were collected on agonistic contests during parts of three reproductive seasons on Southeast Farallon Island. This colony has dense nesting territories and appears to be near saturation, making breeding space a limiting and valuable resource. Established, territory-holding male gulls were able to defeat nearly all opponents. The exceptions were a few unestablished adult males early in the reproductive period that appeared to be equal, or superior to, established males in fighting ability and persistence. Established females were able to defend their territories against territory-holding neighbors, immature gulls, and adult female intruders, but often were forced to retreat by unestablished male intruders. Both immature and unestablished adult intruders more readily challenged an established female than an established male. The value of breeding territories, the primary contested resource, appeared to increase throughout the reproductive period as established birds became increasingly inclined to escalate encounters after eggs were laid, and even more inclined to escalate after chicks appeared. In contrast, unestablished adults became less common and, when present, less inclined to escalate as the season progressed.
10.2307/1368947|The Common Grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) includes two phenotypically differentiated forms, the Purple Grackle (Q. q. quiscula), which breeds along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States, and the Bronzed Grackle (Q. q. versicolor), which occurs over the rest of eastern North America. These grackles meet and hybridize in a zone that stretches from northeastern to the extreme south central United States. We used 20 restriction endonucleases to survey the level and pattern of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation within and among 35 individuals taken from eight sites. To establish the phylogenetic position of Q. quiscula, we also studied the Greater Antillean Grackle (Q. niger), the supposed sister taxon of Q. quiscula, the Boat-tailed Grackle (Q. major), and the Great-tailed Grackle (Q. mexicanus). A relatively high number (29) of clones was detected in Q. quiscula, of which 23 occurred in single individuals. Using results of simulations by Avise et al. (1988), we found times to common ancestry of the 31 clones that are much lower than predicted by neutral theory; however, it is likely that long-term effective population sizes of grackles are much lower than current population size, which potentially explains the discrepancy. Sixty-six percent of the birds were genetically most similar to an individual in another population sample, suggesting that gene flow is high. Inspection of the distribution of individual fragment profiles, composite haplotypes (clones) and a maximum parsimony phylogenetic tree of clones reveals no evidence of geographic variation. Thus, the mtDNA gene tree is paraphyletic with respect to the "plumage" tree of Q. quiscula. The mtDNA data do not reflect the historical event that lead to the origin of either Purple or Bronzed grackles. The low diversity among clones (P = 0.28%) suggests a recent common ancestry of clones and recent colonization of North America, which we suggest explains the lack of geographic variation; plumage evolution must therefore have occurred rapidly, likely enhanced by sexual selection. The separation of quiscula and niger occurred 1-2 MY ago, but it is not clear that these species are sister taxa, whereas it is likely that major and mexicanus are.
10.2307/1368805|In Slaty-backed Gulls, Larus schistisagus, some males prey on seabird chicks and deliver these prey to their own broods. Females rarely prey on seabird chicks. Effects of this individual diet variation on reproductive success in relation to parental care behavior were studied on Teuri Island, Hokkaido. Pairs delivering more seabird chicks to their broods raised more fledglings. Their chicks grew faster than those of pairs delivering mostly fish, possibly because energy value of food-loads with seabird chicks was greater than those with fish or marine invertebrates. Timing of breeding, territory size and egg volume also affected reproductive success. The diet variation was not, however, related to these factors. Diet overlap between mates did not affect division of parental care between mates nor reproductive success directly. Males tending to prey on seabird chicks remained more on territory, probably because their food was easily accessible and they foraged more efficiently. This may explain why their mates attended less than other females without decreasing reproductive success.
10.2307/1368483|We directly measured the eggshell thickness of the three brood parasitic Molothrus cowbirds, 17 other icterids, and 13 additional passerines. By correcting these shell thickness measurements for variation attributable to interspecific differences in egg volume, we show that the Molothrus cowbirds lay eggs with shells that are 30% thicker than expected for their size. Our samples of nonparasitic icterids and of other passerines do not differ significantly in shell thickness values corrected for differences in egg volume. We evaluate two hypotheses for the evolution of unusually thick-shelled eggs in cowbirds. The first, an old idea proposed for parasitic cuckoos, is that thick shells resist damage to the parasite's egg at laying. From indirect tests we could find little or no evidence that the thin-shelled eggs of the hosts of cowbirds were damaged by impact when cowbird eggs were laid in their nests; thus, we tentatively conclude that resistance to laying damage has not been critical in favoring the evolution of thick shells in cowbird eggs. As an alternative hypothesis we propose that thick shells have evolved in cowbird eggs to resist puncture ejections by hosts that are too small to grasp whole cowbird eggs for ejection. We show that a puncture specialist, the Marsh Wren (Cistothorus palustris), has greater difficulty puncturing cowbird eggs than the thinner-shelled eggs of various other passerines. Implications of our hypothesis concerning resistance to puncture ejections are discussed.
3247792| We describe the main reproductive characteristics (laying date, egg size, hatchling mass, and breeding success), chick growth, and patterns of provisioning in Lesser Noddies (Anous tenuirostris) on Aride Island, Seychelles, 1995-2002. The bulk of the population laid eggs between late May and late June in most years. Both hatching and fledging success varied significantly between years, with fledging success (2-92%) more variable than hatching success (28-91%). Productivity of less than 0.10 chicks per breeding pair occurred in 25% of the years. In 2001, egg volume did not differ significantly between hatched and unhatched eggs. Chick mass at hatching was significantly correlated with an egg volume index, but there were no correlations between egg size and either hatching date or linear growth rate. Around 40% of the Lesser Noddy chicks were fed at dusk. Chicks aged 0-5 and 6-10 days received significantly less food than older chicks. There was evidence of daily and stochastic variation in the foraging success of individual birds. Comparing similar studies, chicks of Lesser Noddies and Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) appeared more resistant to fluctuating food supplies than those of Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii), indicating that, in tropical seas, slow growth and foraging farther offshore are more advantageous than faster growth and inshore feeding. /// Neste estudo descrevemos as principais caractersticas da biologia reprodutiva (datas de postura, tamanho dos ovos, peso dos filhotes ao nascerem e sucesso reprodutivo), crescimento e padres de alimentao dos filhotes em Tinhosa-de-barrete, Anous tenuirostris, na ilha de Aride, Seychelles, 1995-2002. Na maioria dos anos a postura ocorreu entre o rim de Maio e o fim de Junho. O sucesso de ecloso e o sucesso de sobrevivncia das crias variaram significativamente entre anos, apresentando o sucesso de sobrevivncia (2-92%) uma maior variao do que o sucesso de ecloso (28-91%). Uma produtividade inferior a 0,10 crias por casal reprodutor ocorreu em 25% dos anos. Em 2001, o volume dos ovos que eclodiram no diferiu significativamente do volume dos ovos que no eclodiram. O peso dos filhotes ao nascerem apresentou uma correlao significativa com o ndice de volume dos ovos, mas no se obtiveram correlaes entre o tamanho dos ovos e, a data de ecloso e a taxa de crescimento linear dos filhotes. Cerca de 40% dos filhotes de Tinhosa-de-barrete foram alimentados ao anoitecer. Os filhotes com idades entre 0-5 e 6-10 dias receberam significativamente menos alimento do que os filhotes mais velhos. Foram observadas variaes dirias e estocsticas no sucesso de alimentao dos indivduos. A comparao do presente estudo com estudos semelhantes, sugere que as crias de A. tenuirostris e de Sterna fuscata sejam mais resistentes a flutuaes na disponibilidade de alimento do que as crias de Sterna dougallii. Isto indica que, em mares tropicais, uma menor taxa de crescimento e uma alimentao em zonas pelgicas so estratgias mais vantajosas do que uma taxa de crescimento rpida e alimentao em zonas costeiras. 
10.2307/1369325|We analyzed carcass composition of female Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) in Alaska to assess the importance of nutrient reserves for formation of first clutches (n = 85) and renests (n = 39). Habitat (tundra vs. boreal forest), hen age (yearling vs. adult), and year (1990 vs. 1991) did not affect nutrient reserve use. During formation of first clutches, Northern Pintail hens relied on lipid reserves more than any other duck species that has been studied. For much of the nesting season, lipid reserves were used to meet costs beyond those incurred by clutch formation. Date of initiation of rapid follicle growth was related to lipid reserve dynamics; lipid reserves at initiation and the rate of lipid use both declined through the season. Protein reserves declined slightly with commitment of protein to the clutch and with date of initiation of rapid follicle growth. Use of mineral reserves for first nests was negligible. Renesting females did not use nutrient reserves. Lipid reserve levels were positively related to the amount of lipid reserves needed to complete the clutch and clutch sizes predicted from a lipid dynamics model were consistent with known clutch sizes. Similar relationships did not exist for protein. We suggest that lipid reserve levels affect timing of nesting and proximately limit clutch size of Northern Pintails.
4500973| An analysis of the elevational distributions of Southeast Asian birds over a 28-year period provides evidence for a potential upward shift for 94 common resident species. These species might have shifted their lower, upper, or both lower and upper boundaries toward a higher elevation in response to climate warming. These upward shifts occurred regardless of habitat specificity, further implicating climate warming, in addition to habitat loss, as a potentially important factor affecting the already imperiled biotas of Southeast Asia. /// Un anlisis de la distribucin altitudinal de las aves del sudeste asitico a lo largo de un perodo de 28 aos evidencia un desplazamiento potencial hacia arriba de 94 especies residentes comunes. Estas especies podran haber desplazado sus lmites inferiores, superiores o ambos haca elevaciones mayores en respuesta al calentamiento climtico. Estos desplazamientos hacia arriba se dieron independientemente de la especificidad de hbitat, implicando ms an al calentamiento climtico, adems de la prdida de hbitat, como un factor potencialmente importante que afecta a las ya deterioradas biotas del sur de Asia. 
40072385|We used mark-recapture and information-theoretic model selection methodologies to estimate survival and recapture probabilities for the federally endangered Black-capped Vireo (
1369682|We studied the reproductive biology of Sabine's Gulls (Xema sabini) breeding on Southampton Island, in the eastern Canadian Arctic, from May to August in 1998 and 1999, and compared our results to information collected from the same region in 1980. Breeding phenology was 10 days earlier in 1998 than in these other years, and reflects an earlier onset of snowmelt in that year. Nests were dispersed, with a density of 7.6 to 8.7 nests per km
1370114| We studied nutrient reserve dynamics of female Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) to identify sources of intraspecific variation in strategies of nutrient acquisition for meeting the high nutritional and energetic costs of egg formation. We collected data from interior Alaska and combined these with data for Lesser Scaup from midcontinent breeding areas (Afton and Ankney 1991), allowing a rangewide analysis for the species. We found little evidence that nutrient reserve use differed between Alaskan and midcontinent Lesser Scaup, except that subarctic birds used a small amount of protein reserves when forming eggs, whereas midcontinent birds did not. Mineral reserves contributed relatively little to the clutch, but endogenous lipid accounted for approximately two-thirds of the lipid in the clutch. Levels of endogenous lipid and protein at initiation of clutch formation declined with date of initiation. Also, absolute amounts of lipid and protein reserves used declined through the season, corresponding to smaller clutch sizes. Our data are consistent with a seasonally variable threshold of lipid reserves for initiation of clutch formation and considerable reliance on lipid reserves, suggestive of lipid control of productivity via effects on clutch size and initiation dates. However, our data cannot refute the hypothesis that clutch size or initiation dates are set by other factors that in turn dictate the amount of lipid reserves that are stored and used. Despite uncertainty regarding the role of nutrient limitations on productivity, maintenance of adequate food resources on winter, migration, and breeding areas should be a management concern, given the high costs of clutch formation by Lesser Scaup, evidence of recent population declines, and potential links between nutrition and productivity. /// Estudiamos la dinmica en la reserva nutricional de hembras de Aythya affinis para identificar fuentes de variacin intraespecfica en las estrategias de adquisicin de nutrientes. Estos nutrientes permiten afrontar los altos costos nutricionales y energticos que demanda la produccin de huevos. Colectamos datos en el interior de Alaska y los combinamos con informacin sobre A. affinis para reas de cra del centro del continente (Afton y Ankney 1991), permitiendo un anlisis para una extensa rea de distribucin de la especie. Encontramos escasa evidencia sobre variaciones en el uso de nutrientes de reserva entre A. affinis de Alaska y del centro del continente. Como excepcin, las aves subrticas usaron una pequea cantidad de las reservas proteicas cuando produjeron los huevos, en contraposicin con las aves del centro del continente que no las usaron. Las reservas minerales contribuyeron relativemente poco a la formacin de huevos, pero los lpidos endgenos representaron casi dos-tercios de los lpidos presentes en los huevos. Los niveles de lpidos endgenos y de protenas al comienzo de la produccin de huevos disminuyeron en relacin con la fecha de inicio. Adems, las cantidades absolutas de reserva de lpidos y protenas usadas disminuyeron a lo largo de la estacin, correspondindose con nidadas ms pequeas. Nuestros datos son consistentes con la existencia de un umbral estacional variable en las reservas de lpidos que determina el inicio de la formacin de huevos, y con la seguridad relativa que ofrecen las reservas de lpidos. Estos resultados sugieren que los lpidos controlan la productividad de las aves a travs de efectos sobre el tamao de la nidada y la fecha de inicio. Sin embargo, nuestros datos no pueden refutar la hiptesis que el tamao de la nidada o la fecha de inicio estn determinados por otros factores que a su vez determinen la cantidad de reservas de lpidos que son almacenadas y usadas. A pesar de las dudas sobre el rol que juega la limitacin de nutrientes sobre la productividad, las estrategias de manejo deberan considerar el mantenimiento de reservas alimenticias adecuadas en reas de invernada, migracin y reproduccin. Esto se justifica dado el alto costo que representa para A. affinis la produccin de huevos, la evidencia sobre recientes disminuciones poblacionales, y los vnculos potenciales entre nutricin y productividad. 
10.2307/1368442|We examined "copying" of foraging locations among the members of mixed-species foraging flocks of deciduous woodland birds. We used 10 captive flocks, each consisting of a male and a female Downy Woodpecker (Picoides pubescens), a male and a female White-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta carolinensis), three Tufted Titmice (Parus bicolor), and two Carolina Chickadees (P. carolinensis). Low-ranking individuals were less likely than dominants to take even a single mealworm (Tenebrio sp.) from a cryptic food supply, but when they did take at least one mealworm they tended to do so more quickly than dominants. Subordinates were quicker to follow a conspecific than a dominant heterospecific in extracting a mealworm from the cryptic supply. We examined how two types of learning, local enhancement and social facilitation, might enhance food finding among these four species. Compared to higher-ranking individuals, subordinates were more likely to generalize to a similar foraging site (social facilitation) than to go to the exact site of a food find (local enhancement). Our results also suggest that the intraspecifically subordinate chickadees and titmice may be at an advantage in mixed-species rather than single-species flocks because dominant heterospecifics may interfere with their foraging less than may dominant conspecifics.
10.2307/1368433|I studied nest-site selection by House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) in a residential area of Guelph, Ontario. House Finches preferentially selected spruce trees (Picea sp.) and Euonymus sp. vines for nesting, and avoided deciduous trees. Most nests abutted the nest tree's trunk and were located between 50% and 70% of the distance up the nest tree. House Finches may select sites which minimize the probability of predation and/or wind damage.
10.2307/1367247|Populations of migrant warblers were correlated with populations of lepidopterous larvae in spring in a heavily forested area of southern Illinois. The birds appeared to feed entirely on these larvae, mostly taken from oaks. Estimates of gross calorie intake indicated a positive energy balance for warblers in an area with larval biomass of 0.70 g per m
40072321|Oak savannas were historically common but are currently rare in the Midwestern United States. We assessed possible associations of bird species with savannas and other threatened habitats in the region by relating fire frequency and vegetation characteristics to seasonal densities of 72 bird species distributed across an open-forest gradient in northwestern Indiana. About one-third of the species did not exhibit statistically significant relationships with any combination of seven vegetation characteristics that included vegetation cover in five vertical strata, dead tree density, and tree height. For 40% of the remaining species, models best predicting species density incorporated tree density. Therefore, management based solely on manipulating tree density may not be an adequate strategy for managing bird populations along this open-forest gradient. Few species exhibited sharp peaks in predicted density under habitat conditions expected in restored savannas, suggesting that few savanna specialists occur among Midwestern bird species. When fire frequency, measured over fifteen years, was added to vegetation characteristics as a predictor of species density, it was incorporated into models for about one-quarter of species, suggesting that fire may modify habitat characteristics in ways that are important for birds but not captured by the structural habitat variables measured. Among those species, similar numbers had peaks in predicted density at low, intermediate, or high fire frequency. For species suggested by previous studies to have a preference for oak savannas along the open-forest gradient, estimated density was maximized at an average fire return interval of about one fire every three years. /// Las sabanas de roble fueron histricamente comunes en el Medio Oeste de Estados Unidos pero actualmente son raras en esta regin. Evaluamos las posibles asociaciones de especies de aves con sabanas y otros ambientes amenazados en esta regin, relacionando la frecuencia de fuego y las caractersticas de la vegetacin con las densidades estacionales de 72 especies de aves distribuidas a lo largo de un gradiente de bosque abierto en el noroeste de Indiana. Cerca de un tercio de las especies no exhibieron relaciones estadsticamente significativas con ninguna de las combinaciones de siete caractersticas de la vegetacin, que incluyeron la cobertura de la vegetacin en cinco estratos verticales, la densidad de rboles muertos y la altura de los rboles. Para el 40% de las especies remanentes, los modelos que mejor predijeron la densidad de especies incorporaron la densidad de rboles. Por lo tanto, el manejo basado exclusivamente en la manipulatin de la densidad de rboles no sera una estrategia adecuada para el manejo de las poblaciones de aves a lo largo de este gradiente de bosque abierto. Pocas especies exhibieron picos marcados en las predicciones de densidad bajo las condiciones de hbitat esperadas en las sabanas restauradas, sugiriendo que son pocas las especies de aves especialistas de sabana que existen en el Medio Oeste. La frecuencia de fuego, medida durante ms de quince aos, sumada a las caractersticas de la vegetacin como variable que predice la densidad de especies, fue incorporada en los modelos para alrededor de un cuarto de las especies. Esto sugiere que el fuego puede modificar caractersticas del hbitat que son importantes para las aves, pero estas modificaciones no estuvieron reflejadas por las variables de estructura del hbitat medidas en este estudio. Entre las especies especialistas de sabana, un nmero similar de especies present picos de densidad predicha a frecuencias de fuego baja, intermedia y alta. Segn estudios anteriores, para las especies que prefieren sabanas de roble a lo largo de un gradiente de bosque abierto, la densidad estimada fue mxima a un intervalo promedio de retorno de fuego de aproximadamente un fuego cada tres aos.
10.1525/cond.2013.120124|The
4096504| That western and eastern songbird migration routes are distinct ecological systems has been proposed for over 100 years. Nonetheless, this distinction has not been widely recognized nor have there been any comparative studies that quantitatively evaluate the differences and similarities between western and eastern songbird migration systems. We drew from previously published research on wood warblers to highlight patterns in stopover ecology that suggest fundamental differences between western and eastern migrants. In particular, we compared biogeography, evolutionary relationships, and stopover ecology of wood warblers from western and eastern North America and found: (1) multiple lines of evidence that indicate western wood warblers are geographically isolated from eastern con-specifics or congeners throughout the annual cycle, (2) eastern and western wood warbler taxa are distinct evolutionary units, (3) migrant wood warblers captured in the Southwest tended to carry lower fat loads and be comprised of more after-hatch-year birds than is typical of eastern migrants, (4) frugivory is unknown in wood warblers endemic to the Northwest or Southwest and (5) relative to other regions and seasons, riparian vegetation is heavily used by western wood warblers in the spring. We think that further examination and synthesis of these differences would yield a more mechanistic understanding of Nearctic-Neotropical avian migration. On this basis, we elaborate our view that (1) an improved understanding of western songbird migration ought to be a high priority for science, conservation, and education, and (2) large-scale coordinated research efforts would be the most effective strategy for advancing our knowledge of passerine migration in the West. /// Por ms de 100 aos se ha propuesto que las rutas de migracin de aves paseriformes del este y del oeste son sistemas ecolgicos diferentes. Sin embargo, esta distincin no ha sido reconocida ampliamente, ni se han realizado estudios comparativos que evalen cuantitativamente las diferencias y similitudes entre los sistemas de migracin del este y del oeste. Revisamos estudios previamente publicados sobre aves de bosque de la familia Parulidae (Reinitas) para destacar los patrones ecolgicos de las paradas migratorias que sugieran diferencias fundamentals entre las aves paseriformes migratorias el este y del oeste. Particularmente, comparamos la biogeografa, las relaciones evolutivas y la ecologa de las paradas migratorias de las Reinitas del este y del oeste de Norteamrica y encontramos: (1) mltiples lneas de evidencia que indican que las Reinitas del oeste se encuentran geogrficamente aisladas de sus coespecficos o cogenricos del este durante todo el ciclo anual, (2) los taxa del este y del oeste son unidades evolutivas independientes, (3) las Reinitas migratorias capturadas en el suroeste tendieron a presentar menores cargas de grasa y una mayor proporcin de aves eclosionadas durante el ao, que lo es tpicamente observado para las aves migratorias del este, (4) la frugivora no se conoce en las Reinitas endmicas del noroeste o sudoeste y (5) en relacin a otras regiones o estaciones, la vegetacin riparia es usada intensamente durante la primavera por las Reinitas del oeste. Creemos que estudios adicionales y una sntesis de estas diferencias podran producir un mejor entendimiento mecan stico de la migracin Nertico-Neotropical de aves. Basados en esto, sugerimos que (1) un mejor entendimiento de la migracin de aves paserinas del oeste debera tener alta prioridad para la ciencia, conservacin y educacin y (2) que los esfuerzos de investigacin coordinados a gran escala seran la estrategia ms efectiva para progresar en nuestro conocimiento sobre la migracin de las aves paserinas en el oeste. 
10.2307/1368114| Internal egg temperatures (T<sub>e</sub>), nest bottom temperatures (T<sub>n</sub>), and shaded air temperatures (T<sub>a</sub>) were measured in Wilson's Plover (Charadrius wilsonia) nests near the Texas coast, and at a Killdeer (C. vociferus) nest in Virginia. During daylight incubation, T<sub>e</sub> in Wilson's Plovers was 36.2  1.3C (mean  SD, range = 31.0-39.7C), and T<sub>e</sub> in Killdeers was 35.2  2.3C (range 29.2-42.5C). Mean T<sub>n</sub> values during daylight incubation were lower (33.5  4.0C, and 23.6  6.0C, respectively). The maximum T<sub>e</sub> in eggs that hatched was 39.9C in Wilson's Plovers and 42.8C in Killdeers. Linear regressions of T<sub>e</sub> and T<sub>n</sub> on T<sub>a</sub> during daylight incubation were significant in both species, with slopes ranging from 0.32 to 0.88C/C. Partial correlations (third- or fourth-order) of T<sub>a</sub> with T<sub>e</sub> and T<sub>n</sub> for daylight data were significant in all cases (range = 0.63-0.85). In some data sets, variables for nest substrate (soil or pavement), parental behavior (on or off the nest), day of incubation, and hour of the day also had significant partial correlations with T<sub>e</sub> or T<sub>n</sub>. Cooling and warming rates of uncovered eggs in nests (C change in T<sub>e</sub>/min) varied inversely with (T<sub>e</sub>-T<sub>a</sub> in both species, and hourly cooling rates were 4.4C/Chr in Wilson's Plovers, and 5.9C/Chr in Killdeers, both higher than rates predicted for eggs in an environmental chamber. Behavioral regulation of T<sub>e</sub> was achieved by varying attentiveness, shading the eggs, sitting on the eggs when T<sub>e</sub> was over 38C, or belly soaking. Four pairs of Wilson's Plovers nesting on pavement used belly soaking 24 times during 750 hr of observation, when T<sub>n</sub> was 41.8  1.6C (Range = 38.9C-44.2C). Belly soaking appeared to be rare because nests on soil were not hot enough to require it, and because most nests were far from water. 
1370553| We monitored 142 Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapillus) nests at Fort Hood, Texas, from 1998 to 2001 using time-lapse infrared videocameras to identify nest predators. We recorded 59 predator visits (where at least some of the nest contents were removed or destroyed), resulting in 48 depredated nests. Snakes and fire ants (Solenopsis spp.) were the leading predators, accounting for 18 (38%) and 15 (31%), respectively, of all depredated nests. We also identified a variety of avian (19% of depredated nests) and mammalian predators (11% of depredated nests). Despite intensive Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) removal at Fort Hood, we recorded nine predator visits by females of this species, but only one resulted in nest failure. Although predator visits occurred at all hours, most (58%) took place at night. The daily predation rate was higher during the nestling stage than during incubation, partly due to the apparent inability of fire ants to prey upon vireo eggs. We monitored 435 nests without video; field assistants checked the contents of these every 4-5 days. The daily survival rate of these nests was not higher than the rate of nests monitored with video, evidence that video monitoring does not increase nest predation relative to monitoring by human visits to nests. /// De 1998 al 2001 monitoreamos 142 nidos de Vireo atricapillus en Fort Hood, Texas. Utilizamos cmaras de video de luz infrarroja para identificar a los depredadores de los nidos. Logramos grabar 59 visitas de depredacin (donde al menos parte del contenido de los nidos fue removido o destruido); en stas, 48 nidos fueron depredados. Los principales depredadores de los nidos de V. atricapillus fueron las serpientes y las hormigas de fuego (Solenopsis sp.). Del total de nidos depredados, 18 (38%) fueron depredados por serpientes y 15 (31%) por hormigas. Tambin identificamos otros depredadores como algunas especies de aves (19% de los nidos depredados) y mamferos (11% de los nidos depredados). A pesar de la campaa intensiva de erradicacin de Molothrus ater en Fort Hood, registramos 9 visitas de depredacin por parte de hembras de esta especie, pero slo una de estas visitas result en el fracaso del nido. Aunque las visitas de depredacin se dieron en cualquier momento, la mayora (58%) ocurri durante la noche. La tasa diaria de depredacin fue ms alta durante la etapa de crianza que durante la etapa de incubacin, en parte debido a la aparente inhabilidad de las hormigas de fuego para depredar los huevos de Vireo atricapillus. Durante nuestra investigacin, monitoreamos 435 nidos sin cmara de video; los asistentes de campo revisaron el contenido de estos nidos cada 4  5 das. La tasa de sobrevivencia diaria de estos nidos no fue ms alta que la de los nidos monitoreados con cmaras, mostrando que el monitoreo con stas no incrementa la depredacin de nidos con relacin al monitoreo por visitas personales a los nidos. 
10.2307/1369241|The Giant Cowbird (Scaphidura oryzivora) is a brood parasite of several icterid hosts in Central and South America. Cowbird eggs can visually resemble those of their hosts. Evidence of egg mimicry requires quantification of the degree of similarity of host and parasite eggs. It is also unclear if nests found with more than one cowbird egg were parasitized by more than one female cowbird. We used electrophoresis of egg proteins and egg morphometric analyses to discriminate among the eggs of two host species (Cacicus cela and Zarhynchus wagleri) and those of the parasite, and to document the number of females that laid in a single host nest. Electromorphs of transferrin differed between the hosts ("a" alleles only) and the parasite ("b" and "c" alleles only), and thus serve as a species-specific marker. Multivariate assessment of egg measurements and markings indicate significant and non-overlapping differences in morphology between eggs of the three species as well. Electromorph and color morph differences showed that two or more female cowbirds definitely laid in six of 10 nests containing two or more cowbird eggs. In the other four nests, paired cowbird eggs could not be differentiated by color or electromorph and may have been laid by the same female.
4500995| The Henslow's Sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii), a species of conservation concern, winters primarily in longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) forest ecosystems in the southeastern U.S. These pine savannas have been reduced to 5% of their former range, with remaining patches requiring active management with fire to maintain characteristic structure and plant diversity. Wintering Henslow's Sparrow abundance tracks growing-season fires; bird abundance peaks in the winter following burning, then declines in subsequent winters. Fire also determines dominant plant species, suggesting that Henslow's Sparrows may respond to abundance of preferred seeds. To determine diet preferences of Henslow's Sparrows, we tested seeds from eight species of native plants from southeastern Louisiana pine savannas, including species common in the first winter after burning ('fire grasses') and species that increase in abundance in the second and subsequent winters after burning. Seed consumption by individual birds differed considerably, suggesting that Henslow's Sparrows forage on a variety of resources in the highly diverse savannas. Henslow's Sparrows preferred fire grasses, especially Muhlenbergia expansa (cutover muhly). They also preferred Dichanthelium angustifolium (needleleaf rosette grass), a species more common in the second year after burning, but consumed relatively little of the sedges Rhynchospora plumosa (plumed beaksedge) and R. gracilenta (slender beaksedge), species common in the second winter after fire. Birds consumed almost none of the ubiquitous grass Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem). These results suggest that preferred seeds may include those that are most common in the first winter after burning, but that some suitable seeds are available for at least another winter. /// Ammodramus henslowii es una especie con problemas de conservacin, que inverna principalmente en ecosistemas boscosos dominados por pinos (Pinus palustris) en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos. El rea cubierta por las sabanas dominadas por pinos ha sido reducida al 5% de su cobertura original, y sus fragmentos necesitan ser manejados con quemas controladas para poder mantener su estructura caracterstica y diversidad vegetal. La abundancia de Ammodramus henslowii est asociada con los fuegos estacionales; su pico de abundancia ocurre durante el primer invierno despus del fuego, declinando en los inviernos siguientes. El fuego tambin determina las especies de plantas dominantes, hecho que sugiere que Ammodramus henslowii responde a la abundancia de sus semillas preferidas. Para poder determinar las preferencias en la dieta de Ammodramus henslowii, evaluamos semillas de ocho especies de plantas nativas de las sabanas de pinos del sudeste de Louisiana, incluyendo especies comunes durante el primer invierno despus del fuego (pastos adaptados al fuego) y especies que aumentan en abundancia durante los inviernos siguientes. El consumo de semillas por individuo vari considerablemente, sugiriendo que Ammodramus henslowii se alimenta de una variedad de recursos en estas sabanas altamente diversas. Ammodramus henslowii prefiere pastos adaptados al fuego, en especial Muhlenbergia expansa. Tambin prefiere Dichanthelium angustifolium, una especie ms abundante durante el segundo ao despus del fuego, pero consume relativamente poco Rhynchospora plumosa y R. gracilenta, que son comunes durante el segundo invierno despus del fuego. Las aves prcticamente no consumieron Schizachyrium scoparium, que es omnipresente en este ecosistema. Estos resultados sugieren que las semillas preferidas por esta especie incluyen las semillas que son ms comunes durante el primer invierno despus del fuego, pero tambin algunas semillas disponibles por lo menos durante el invierno siguiente. 
10.2307/1369645|I measured annual reproductive success for a resident population of cooperatively breeding Western American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos hesperis) over 6 years, and examined the relationship between it and several ecological and social variables. Most nests (57%) failed to fledge any young, due largely to predation. Success in fledging young was associated with three interrelated variables: (1) the presence of helpers, (2) early nesting, and (3) consistent differences between pairs. Assisted pairs began incubation earlier, some pairs consistently nested early, and the proportion of years that pairs were successful was related to the proportion of years in which they had help. Although both help and incubation date were related to nesting success independent of each other, the effect of help became nonsignificant after controlling for differences between pairs. The slight increase in fledging success possibly attributable to helpers may have been the result of consistently successful pairs succeeding, with help, in otherwise poor years. Postfledging survival was related in part to the size of individuals; larger nestlings tended to have a greater chance of fledging, and once fledged, to have a greater chance of surviving the following 2-week period. Larger nestlings survived to one year of age significantly more often than smaller nestlings.
10.1525/cond.2012.100231|In species that defend all-purpose breeding territories, territory size is usually inversely related to food abundance, but it is unclear whether this relationship results from reduced need to defend a large territory if food is abundant or from greater competitive pressure from conspecifics. Although studies of both breeding and winter territories suggest that competitive pressure is the proximate determinant of territory size, with food abundance acting indirectly by increasing the density of competitors, results are often equivocal because competitor density and food abundance tend to be positively correlated. In the Tree Swallow (
90008444|Bird populations are influenced by many environmental factors at both large and small scales. Our study evaluated the influences of regional climate and land-use variables on the Northern Harrier (
10.2307/1369434|The White-eyed Vireo (Vireo griseus) and the Mangrove Vireo (V. pallens) are two of the most common species of insectivorous bird on the Yucatan Peninsula. Mangrove Vireo pairs maintain year-long territories primarily in scrub, whereas individual White-eyed Vireos defend territories in a broad range of terrestrial habitats. The two species show a strong reciprocal distribution along a successional gradient from regenerating pasture and old field to mature dry forest. Within second growth scrub, White-eyed Vireos are primarily associated with patches of trees. Despite minor morphological differences typical of migrant-resident comparisons, we found no significant differences in the rates of different locomotory movement, in the relative proportion of attack type used, nor in foraging substrate. The major foraging differences were a lower reduced attack rate and greater use of fruit (primarily Bursera simaruba) in the White-eyed Vireo. Playback experiments failed to draw significant interspecific responses to song playback and elicited weak responses to conspecific and heterospecific chatter calls. Simultaneous call-in experiments and opportunistic observations failed to provide evidence of interspecific aggression. White-eyed Vireos, however, consistently chased Mangrove Vireos out of fruiting Bursera. We hypothesize that the extensive use of Bursera fruit allows White-eyed Vireos to over-winter in mature forest on the Yucatan Peninsula, a habitat that apparently cannot support breeding by vireos in the White-eyed Vireo complex.
1370613| We assessed the effect of body size and bill length on the acoustic properties of the rattle calls of 15 corvid species. First, we correlated body traits and the acoustic properties of rattles, regardless of the evolutionary history of the study species. Then we repeated the analysis, taking into account phylogeny and thus excluding its effect on morphological and acoustic characters. When the potential effects of phylogeny were ruled out, the second frequency peak was negatively correlated to body size. The carrying frequency also decreased with decreasing body size, but the relationship was weaker than that resulting from a phylogeny-free analysis. This pattern is consistent with the demonstrated body-size-frequency allometry in the vocalizations of many birds. Bill length also influenced rattle spectral properties. We emphasize that patterns and processes elucidated with comparative studies can be biased if species relatedness is not considered. /// Evaluamos el efecto del tamao corporal y la longitud del pico sobre las propiedades acsticas de los llamados de matraqueo de 15 especies de crvidos. Primero, correlacionamos los caracteres corporales con las propiedades acsticas del matraqueo independientemente de la historia evolutiva de las especies estudiadas. Luego, repetimos el anlisis tomando en cuenta la filogenia, excluyendo su efecto sobre los caracteres morfolgicos y acsticos. Cuando los potenciales efectos filogenticos fueron removidos, el segundo pico en la frecuencia se correlacion negativamente con el tamao corporal. La frecuencia principal tambin decreci con la disminucin del tamao corporal, pero esta relacin fue ms dbil que la resultante de un anlisis sin considerar la filogenia. Este patrn es consistente con la alometra entre el tamao corporal y la frecuencia de las vocalizaciones de muchas aves. La longitud del pico tambin influy sobre las propiedades espectrales del matraqueo. Enfatizamos que los patrones y procesos elucidados a travs de estudios comparativos pueden encontrarse sesgados si no se consideran las relaciones entre las especies. 
10.2307/1369063|Of a population of 33 pairs of Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) inhabiting north-central Oregon, 9 and 10 pairs lost portions of their breeding territories to later-arriving Swainson's Hawks (B. swainsoni) in 1977 and 1978, respectively. The loss was accompanied by aggressive Swainson's Hawk behavior and vigorous Red-tailed Hawk defense. Analysis of the habitat relinquished by Red-tailed Hawks showed perch availability to be an important resource in the habitat relations of these species. Red-tailed Hawks abandoned areas with perches at moderate densities (0.3-0.6 perch/ha) more often than expected by chance while preferentially retaining areas with greater perch densities. The habitat lost by Red-tailed Hawks is associated with high reproductive performance.
10.2307/1369035|Systematic relationships among North American grouse and ptarmigans (Tetraoninae) are not well defined because traditional classifications were based on morphological and behavioral characters with limited taxonomic utility. Restriction enzyme analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was used to generate a phylogeny for North American tetraonines that was then utilized to test previous phylogenetic hypotheses for the group and to examine the origin and evolution of complex reproductive behaviors and morphological features characteristic of grouse and ptarmigan species. Nucleotide sequence divergence among congeneric species derived from mtDNA restriction fragment patterns varied extensively, ranging from 0.28% in prairie grouse (Tympanuchus) to 4.06% among ptarmigans (Lagopus) and 10.15% between Blue Grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) and Spruce Grouse (D. canadensis). Using the Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) as an outgroup, the molecular phylogeny partitioned species into three primary groups: (1) Tympanuchus; (2) Lagopus, Dendragapus obscurus, and Tetrao urogallus (the European Capercaillie); and (3) the Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus), Dendragapus canadensis, and Sage Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). Prairie grouse were genetically distinct from other grouse species, but a polyphyletic distribution of haplotypes and limited mtDNA differentiation within Tympanuchus suggest that divergence among the prairie grouse occurred very recently. Within Lagopus, the Willow (L. lagopus) and Rock (L. mutus) Ptarmigans were more closely related to each other than either was to the White-tailed Ptarmigan (L. leucurus). Dendragapus canadensis grouped with Bonasa umbellus; whereas D. obscurus was allied with Lagopus and Tetrao. Thus, the genus Dendragapus as currently constructed is polyphyletic (i.e., D. canadensis and D. obscurus have had separate evolutionary histories) and the morphological similarities between the two species may be attributable to convergent adaptation to coniferous forest. We inferred from the molecular phylogeny that the complex reproductive systems in tetraonines have arisen independently and that corresponding morphological and behavioral specializations may reflect parallel evolutionary trends.
10.2307/1367565|Winter band recovery distributions of North American Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) suggested that males and females exhibit comparable degrees of fidelity to general wintering areas. Of birds banded during the winter, the proportion of males was found to be higher in northern than in southern areas. Winter band recovery distributions of birds banded in particular areas during the summer were found to differ significantly between sexes, with females being recovered farther south. Factors that may have affected the evolution of sex-specific wintering distributions include: (1) possible reproductive benefits derived by males who winter in the north and thus reach northerly breeding areas early; (2) sexual dimorphism in body size, which may render the smaller females especially susceptible to periods of inclement weather and food shortages; and (3) interactions between sexes in which males may control food supply when food is scarce. Two lines of evidence from field data on Canvasbacks in the Chesapeake Bay suggest the existence of competition between males and females. First, Canvasbacks trapped during winter in smaller bodies of water tended to have higher proportions of females and weigh less than birds trapped in large open bodies of water. Second, analysis of aerial photographs of wintering rafts of Canvasbacks showed patterns of intersexual segregation, with females being found more frequently on peripheral areas of rafts.
10.2307/1370326|We studied the relationship between family associations of immature Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) and their reproductive success as 2-year-olds and survival to three years. A higher proportion of immature Canada Geese associated with family members survived to breeding age and were more successful in reproducing in their first potential year of sexual maturity (age 2) than were geese that were not in family associations. These results illustrate the benefits of prolonged parental care outweighing costs to parents and the probable influence of family association on future successful breeding. Many reproductive failures of vertebrates with complex social organization may be related to experience during maturation.
10.2307/1368619|Computer simulations and Western Kingbird (Tyrannus verticalis) nest orientation data were used to compare the properties and assumptions of four goodness-of-fit tests. The results and relative abilities of each test to detect different patterns of nest orientation were evaluated. The computer simulations showed that each method was powerful in detecting unimodal patterns. However, Rayleigh's Z and Watson's U<sup>2</sup> lacked the robustness for detecting bimodal patterns demonstrated by Rao's U. Computer simulations demonstrated a lack of robustness and low power in detecting directional avoidance patterns, but also demonstrated that each method performed with low Type I error and high power when analyzing data with no pattern. Nest orientation of Western Kingbirds exhibited a high degree of variation between years, but appeared to be generally polymodal with modes in the north, south and east. The detection of a significant pattern of nest orientation was dependent on the analytical method used. Chi-square analysis showed significant departures from a uniform distribution in each of four years and all years combined. Rayleigh's Z indicated significant nest orientation only in 1986. Watson's U<sup>2</sup> and Rao's spacing test both indicated significant nest orientation for all years combined, and years 1985 (Rao's spacing test only) and 1986. Rao's spacing test has distinct advantages in the analysis of nest orientation and other circular data over other commonly used goodness-of-fit tests, especially if the data are polymodal. Rao's spacing test accounts for many of the statistical implications a researcher must consider when analyzing nest orientation data. It is more flexible; able to handle more types of circular data with fewer limiting assumptions; can detect polymodality; and is more powerful with small sample sizes. In addition, the nest orientation of Western Kingbirds and other species is probably affected by multiple factors such as microclimate, predation and habitat structure which make the use of Rao's spacing test indespensible in determining the nature of the pattern of nest orientation of Western Kingbirds.
40072455|Seabirds may be particularly vulnerable to neonatal food restriction because their nestling periods tend to be long and parents may not increase foraging effort during times of prey shortage. We performed a captive study of Rhinoceros Auklet
10.2307/1368451|In Blue-eyed and King shags (Phalacrocorax atriceps and P. albiventer), the first prebasic molt of the primaries begins at P1 and proceeds distally. Continual stepwise molt of the primaries begins with commencement of PB2 after replacement of P5 to P8 by the first prebasic molt. Adults had from one to four concurrent distally moving waves of molt in primaries. In secondaries of these species, the first prebasic molt begins peripherally at S1 and S15 and proceeds centrally. The second prebasic molt then begins peripherally before the central secondaries are replaced by PB1. Secondaries of adults are molted by up to six concurrent waves that originate peripherally; I term this bidirectional stepwise molt of secondaries. Stepwise molt tends to be asymmetrical both in adults and subadults. Subadults of these species have more molting feathers per wave in primaries and secondaries than do adults, but the age classes do not differ in number of molting feathers per wing. Molt of remiges in subadults initially resembles the condition in the Procellariiformes, the nearest outgroup, while the stepwise molt of adults is synapomorphic for Pelecaniformes.
4500962| Reproduction is physiologically stressful for many animals. Female birds often lose body mass after their young hatch, which has been commonly attributed either to an energetic deficit incurred while breeding (the energetic stress hypothesis) or to an adaptive reduction in wing-loading to save energy during flight (the wing-loading hypothesis). We tested these two hypotheses for an open-cup nesting passerine, the Black-throated Blue Warbler (Dendroica caerulescens), using a food-supplementation experiment. We found that females provided with extra food lost less body mass between the incubation and nestling periods than did control females and that mass loss varied seasonally, with females in both treatments that nested earlier in the season losing more mass. We conclude that greater mass loss in control females supports the energetic stress hypothesis in Black-throated Blue Warblers. /// La reproduccin es un evento fisiolgicamente estresante para muchos animales. En muchas ocasiones las aves hembra pierden peso corporal luego de que sus pichones eclosionan, lo que ha sido comnmente atribuido a un dficit energtico producido durante la incubacin (hiptesis del estrs energtico) o a una reduccin adaptativa de la carga alar para ahorrar energa durante el vuelo (hiptesis de la carga alar). Probamos estas dos hiptesis con un ave paseriforme que nidifica en nidos en forma de taza abierta (Dendroica caerulescens), por medio de un experimento de adicin de alimento. Encontramos que las hembras que recibieron alimento adicional perdieron menos peso corporal entre los periodos de incubacin y de polluelos en el nido que las hembras control, y que la prdida de peso vari estacionalmente. En ambos tratamientos las hembras que comenzaron a nidificar antes perdieron una mayor cantidad de peso corporal. Concluimos que una mayor prdida de peso corporal en las hembras control apoya la hiptesis de estrs energtico en Dendroica caerulescens. 
10.2307/3247726|We studied the feeding and aggressive behavior of adult and juvenile American Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) at a coastal salina in Venezuela. Most birds fed in large flocks in early morning, roosted at mid-day, and resumed feeding in late afternoon-early evening. Flamingos rarely flew, except when disturbed. Adults in our study stepped at the same rates while feeding as did Chilean Flamingos (P. chilensis) feeding in the Chilean and Bolivian Andes. Paired observations of birds within mixed-age flocks revealed that adults stepped more during feeding bouts, but less between bouts, and spent more time overall with their bills in the water filter-feeding, than did juveniles. We calculate that the food-intake rate of juveniles was, at most, 82% that of adults. Both adults and juveniles walk-fed and stamp-fed. Juveniles, but not adults, were twice as likely to be supplanted when stamp-feeding than when walk-feeding. Juveniles were more often involved in aggression, especially as recipients, than were adults. Aggressive encounters significantly affected the amount of time flamingos spent filter feeding.
1370375| We evaluated long-term (50-year) change in a bird community of an extensively forested region of the southern Appalachian mountains in North Carolina and Tennessee. A species accumulation curve for a 1996-1998 survey identified a core of 50 breeding species in upper elevations of the Unicoi Mountains. Since a 1944-1946 survey, dominant species have remained identical, no species have disappeared, and mean ranked abundance of both short and long-distance migrants has not changed. Permanent residents, however, had decreased in rank by the late 1990s. Three "new" disturbance-dependent species, American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos), Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea), and Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia), expanded into interior forest along a recently constructed parkway. Largest apparent increases in ranked abundance of individual species occurred in eight Neotropical migrants that rely upon mature, forest-interior habitat, whereas largest apparent declines in ranked abundance occurred in land-use generalists, cavity nesters, and three other Neotropical migrants. Modifications to land-use were reasonable explanations for changes in most species. Little change in community structure, greater representation of many Neotropical migrants, and virtual absence of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) suggest that this large, continuous forest retained and probably regained functional integrity for forest birds during the latter half of the twentieth century. /// Evaluamos cambios a largo plazo (50 aos) en la comunidad de aves de una extensa regin boscosa del sector sur de las Montaas Apalaches en Carolina del Norte y Tennessee. Una curva acumulativa de especies basada en monitoreos realizados entre 1996-1998 identific un ncleo de 50 especies criando en las elevaciones superiores de las Montaas Unicoi. A partir de un monitoreo hecho entre 1944-1946, determinamos que las especies dominantes han sido las mismas, ninguna especie ha desaparecido, y el rango de las abundancia promedio de migrantes de corta y larga distancia no ha cambiado. El rango de los residentes permanentes, sin embargo, disminuy a fines de los '90. Tres "nuevas" especies (Corvus brachyrhynchos, Passerina cyanea, y Melospiza melodia) que dependen de ambientes disturbados se expandieron hacia el interior del bosque a lo largo de una carretera recientemente construida. Los mayores incrementos en el rango de abundancia se observaron en ocho especies de migrantes neotropicales que dependen de ambientes de interior de bosque maduro, mientras que los mayores decrementos en rangos de abundancia se registraron en especies de hbitos generalistas, en especies que nidifican en cavidades, y en otros tres migrantes neotropicales. Las modificaciones en el uso del hbitat explican razonablemente bien los cambios en la mayora de las especies. Durante la ltima mitad del siglo 20, la extensin y continuidad del bosque mantuvieron y probablemente recuperaron la integridad funcional de la comunidad de aves, como lo sugieren los cambios menores en la estructura de la comunidad, la mayor representacin de migrantes neotropicales, y la casi total ausencia de Molothrus ater. 
10.2307/1368403|Research was conducted to determine the food habits of Hawaiian Crow (Corvus hawaiiensis) nestlings, variety of food items ingested relative to their age, and the nutritional composition of ingested fruits. Knowledge of the fruits' nutritive value and the nestlings' diet allowed us to determine what plants best meet nutritional needs of adult and nestling crows for restocking purposes. Our evaluation of fecal droppings suggested that nestlings were fed a variety of items similar to those ingested by adults. The types and proportions of food materials found in droppings changed with age. Crow nestlings' consumption of olapa (Cheirodendron trigynum) and oha-kepau (Clermontia spp.) fruits, passerine nestlings, and a variety of arthropods made up the highest percentage of food items found in droppings. Food items eaten by Hawaiian Crow nestlings generally had a high water content but varied greatly in nutrient density. Crude protein ranged from 1.81% in the hoawa (Pittosporum hosmeri) seed shell to 16.32% in the aiea (Nothocestrum longifolium) fruit. Fat content, gross energy content, fiber fractions, total digestible nutrients, digestible energy, metabolizable energy, and mineral levels varied greatly among fruit types. In general, the higher the fat content, the higher the energy density, and the lower the fiber fraction.
4122534| The provisioning of offspring is limited by resource abundance and is therefore likely to vary with habitat quality and the ability of parents to obtain food. Provisioning effort may also vary because males choose different life-history strategies depending on their rank and environment. Socially dominant males have higher costs of self-maintenance compared with subordinates, yet this is likely compensated for by their priority access to resources. It is unclear, however, whether this translates into benefits for females through male provisioning effort, and how this might vary with habitat suitability. We assessed patterns of body condition, blood hematocrit levels, and provisioning effort of dominant and subordinate male Black-capped Chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) breeding in two habitats known to differ in quality. Within ranks, males were similar in size and condition across habitats. Dominant males were not structurally larger than subordinates, but they were in better condition than subordinates in both habitats. There was an additive effect of habitat and dominance rank on hematocrit level; dominant males had higher hematocrit levels than subordinates regardless of habitat, and all males breeding in poor habitat had elevated hematocrits. A habitat-rank interaction revealed a greater disparity in provisioning rates among dominant and subordinate males in poor habitats. These results suggest that dominant males may be particularly good mates when resources are scarce. /// El aprovisionamiento de los pichones est limitado por la abundancia de los recursos, por lo que es probable que ste vare con la calidad del hbitat y con la habilidad de los progenitores para obtener el alimento. El esfuerzo de aprovisionamiento tambin puede variar porque los machos pueden elegir diferentes estrategias de historia de vida y priorizar la inversin en diferentes componentes de las historias de vida, dependiendo de su ambiente. Los machos socialmente dominantes tienen mayores costos de auto mantenimiento que los subordinados, aunque esto probablemente se compensa con el acceso prioritario a los recursos. Sin embargo, no est claro si esto se traduce en beneficios para las hembras a travs del esfuerzo de provisin de los machos, ni cmo esto podra variar con la calidad del hbitat. Evaluamos los patrones de la condicin corporal, los niveles de hematocrito en la sangre y el esfuerzo de aprovisionamiento de los machos dominantes y subordinados de Poecile atricapillus que estaban criando en dos ambientes que diferan en su calidad. Dentro de los rangos, los machos fueron similares en tamao y condicin a travs de los ambientes. Los machos dominantes no fueron estructuralmente mas grandes que los subordinados, pero estuvieron en mejores condiciones que los subordinados en ambos ambientes. Hubo un efecto aditivo del hbitat y el rango de dominancia en los niveles de hematocrito; los machos dominantes presentaron niveles de hematocrito mayores que los subordinados, independientemente del hbitat, y todos los machos que criaron en ambientes pobres tuvieron niveles elevados de hematocrito. Una interaccin entre el hbitat y el rango revel una disparidad mayor en las tasas de aprovisionamiento entre los machos dominantes y subordinados en los ambientes pobres. Estos resultados sugieren que los machos dominantes pueden ser parejas particularmente buenas cuando los recursos son escasos. 
10.2307/1368112|A method sometimes used to study avian intraspecific brood parasitism is to visually examine a clutch of eggs and infer parasitic egg laying if an egg of odd appearance is present in the clutch. Yet the degree to which individual females always lay eggs that look alike has seldom been evaluated quantitatively. We measured variation in egg appearance within and between 33 clutches of Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) and 35 clutches of Cliff Swallows (H. pyrrhonota) in southwestern Nebraska. Variables measured were egg length, breadth, shape, total amount of spotting, and degree of spotting in four separate sections of the egg. For both species within-clutch variance was significantly less than between-clutch variance for all variables except upper right and lower right spotting, when a sample size of 26-30 nests was used. Significant differences tended not to occur when small numbers of randomly selected nests (five to seven) were examined. Within-clutch variance for nests known to contain parasitic eggs did not differ from within-clutch variance for nonparasitized nests. Differences in egg appearance probably cannot be used safely to infer brood parasitism in Barn and Cliff swallows. Researchers should quantify within- vs. between-clutch variation in egg appearance before assuming that an individual of a given species always lays eggs that look more alike than do eggs from different individuals.
4151019| Recent studies have shown that Warbling Vireos (Vireo gilvus) are declining in California and that these trends are due to low reproductive success. Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) has been implicated in the low productivity. I explored two hypotheses related to population dynamics of Warbling Vireos along an elevational gradient: (1) potential source populations exist at high elevations where cowbirds are rare, and (2) potential source populations occur in the center of the elevational distribution with less productive populations at upper and lower elevations. From 1985 through 2002 I studied the abundance and productivity of Warbling Vireos over an elevational gradient in the southern Sierra Nevada. Warbling Vireos were most abundant in mid elevation mixed conifer sites, less abundant in lower elevation ponderosa pine sites and upper elevation true fir sites, and rare in upper elevation lodgepole pine sites. Likewise, daily survival rates of nests were highest at mid elevations (1800m) and gradually decreased at both higher and lower elevations. Compared to other populations studied in California, nest success in mixed conifer habitat was high (60, n = 58). Although rates of brood parasitism were high enough to be of concern in low-elevation ponderosa pine forests, cowbird parasitism was not observed in midto upper-elevation forests. Warbling Vireos were most productive where they were most abundant. The hypothesis that potential source populations exist at upper elevations did not appear to hold at the upper bounds of the elevational distribution. The results of this study provide support for the hypothesis that potential source populations occur in the center of the elevational distribution, with less productive populations at both lower and higher elevations. /// Estudios recientes han demostrado que las poblaciones de Vireo gilvus de California estn declinando, y que estas tendencias se deben a un bajo xito reproductivo. El parasitismo de cra por parte de Molothrus ater se ha considerado como una causa de la baja productividad. En este estudio, explor dos hiptesis relacionadas con la dinmica poblacional de V. gilvus a lo largo de un gradiente altitudinal: (1) en las elevaciones altas, donde M ater es raro, existen poblaciones que sirven potencialmente como fuentes; y (2) las poblaciones que sirven potencialmente como fuentes se encuentran en el centro de la distribucin altitudinal y las poblaciones menos productivas a elevaciones mayores y menores. Estudi la abundancia y productividad de V. gilvus en un gradiente altitudinal en Ia parte sur de la Sierra Nevada entre 1985 y 2002. Esta especie fue ms abundante a elevaciones medias en bosques mixtos de conferas, menos abundante a elevaciones menores en bosques de Pinus ponderosa y a elevaciones mayores en sitios dominados por rboles del gnero Abies, y rara en sitios a elevaciones altas dominadas por Pinus contorta. Igualmente, las tasas diarias de supervivencia de los nidos fueron mximas a elevaciones medias ( 1800 m) y disminuyeron gradualmente hacia elevaciones mayores y menores. En comparacin con otras poblaciones estudiadas en California, el xito reproductivo en ambientes mixtos de conferas fue alto (60%, n = 58). Aunque las tasas de parasitismo de nidos por parte de M. ater fueron lo suficientemente altas como para ser motivo de preocupacin en los bosques de pino ponderosa a elevaciones bajas, no se observ parasitismo en bosques ubicados a elevaciones medias y altas. La productividad de V. gilvus fue maxima en las localidades donde la especie fue ms abundante. La hiptesis de que podran existir potenciales poblaciones fuente a elevaciones mayores no pareci ser correcta en el lImite superior de la distribucin altitudinal. Los resultados de este estudio apoyan la hiptesis de que las poblaciones con potencial de servir como fuentes se encuentran en el centro de la distribucin altitudinal, y las poblaciones menos productivas a elevaciones mayores y menores. 
40072388|Brain-size reduction in domesticated forms of mammals in comparison to their wild ancestors is well documented in numerous species. Although it does not involve intentional artificial selection for traits such as meat production, captive breeding also causes a reduction in brain size in some mammalian species. In birds, domestication results in a reduction in brain size as well, but whether captive breeding causes a similar effect is unknown. Given the increasing number of avian captive breeding programs, it is important to assess whether captive breeding affects the behavior and morphology of a species. Here we investigated whether relative and absolute brain volume differs between wild and captive-bred stocks of 21 species of waterfowl (Anseriformes). Absolute brain volume of captive-bred specimens was lower than in wild specimens for most (16 of 21) of the species examined, and the decrease varied from 1% to 33% (mean: 4.7%). Similarly, all but one species showed relative brain-volume decrease that varied between 2% and 30% (mean: 7.7%). Overall, these reductions in absolute and relative brain volume are smaller than that caused by domestication in ducks (
10.2307/1368610|We analyzed nutrient reserves (lipid, protein, mineral) and organs of Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) breeding in southwestern Manitoba. Our analysis provided weak support for the hypothesis that paired males are physically superior to those pairing later or not at all. Protein reserves of paired males were larger than those of unpaired males, whereas fat and mineral reserves were similar in size between pair-status groups. Except for a marked decline in lipid reserves, body components and organs of paired males changed little while on breeding areas before laying by their mates. Nutrient reserves of males also did not change relative to the nutrient commitment to reproduction by their mates. Females accumulated protein and mineral reserves and at least maintained lipid reserves while on breeding areas before laying. Lipid reserves of females declined, on average, 0.5 g for every 1 g of lipid deposited in eggs. Mineral reserves declined, on average, 0.1 g for every 1 g of egg shell produced. Declines in nutrient reserves of incubating females could account for 12% of their energy requirements during that period. Lipid-reserve dynamics of females were consistent with predictions of the lipid-limitation hypothesis, but contradicted those of the protein-limitation and migrational-uncertainty hypotheses. Food availability on breeding areas may limit lipid storage by females, and serve as an important proximate factor affecting clutch size of Lesser Scaup.
10.2307/1368979|Three hundred and forty adult European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were caught in nest boxes at a colony in southern Germany. Half were made anosmic by bilateral olfactory nerve section; the others were sham-operated and served as controls. The birds were displaced over distances of 30, 60, 120 or 240 km, respectively, either towards east or west. Over 30 and 60 km, both controls and anosmic starlings returned at a rate of 40-50%. Over the longer distances, the return rate of controls remained the same (120 km) or decreased only slightly (240 km), whereas the percentage of anosmic homers was drastically and significantly reduced. The findings are analogous to corresponding results obtained with homing pigeons and strongly suggest that starlings also require perception of olfactory signals for orientation to home over longer distances. Returning to the nest site in the following spring was also significantly lowered by anosmia, suggesting that olfactory navigation is involved in the seasonal migrations.
10.2307/1368348|Male Northern Mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) have exceptionally large vocal repertoires. The manner of presenting this extensive repertoire, as described using five measures, varied with reproductive stage, among situations, and among individuals. All three versatility measures peaked during courtship, declined significantly during incubation, and then slowly increased during nestling and fledgling stages. A fourth measure, bout length, increased as the season progressed, being shortest during courtship and longest during the fledgling stage. A final measure, recurrence interval (number of intervening bouts between two bouts of a particular song type) was shorter during the nestling and fledgling stages than during courtship. Recurrence interval was shortest during patrolling and countersinging with neighboring males. Over 25% of the song types occurred only once in the sampling of singing behavior of four males each over 2 years. Mockingbirds sang these rare song types most commonly during prefemale and courtship stages, thereby increasing the recurrence interval and versatility during these stages. The patterns just described resulted in the greatest number of song types being sung per unit of time during courtship and provide circumstantial support for the hypothesis that song functions intersexually in mockingbirds. The ability to alter the manner of presentation may provide mockingbirds with the flexibility to emphasize particular functions at certain times and other functions at other times. Males with the highest versatility measures and lowest bout length tended to be the first to acquire mates and begin to nest. However, the importance of versatility in attracting females remains speculative and requires further experimental testing because these results were from only four males. Songs sung at night were presented in a manner most similar to the period before a female arrived on a male's territory. Interestingly, under natural lighting conditions, only unmated males sang extensively at night.
10.2307/1368350|Patterns of colony attendance in Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) were studied over 5 years on the Semidi Islands, western Gulf of Alaska. A census period of 50 days, extending from first egg laying through final hatching, was appropriate because counts made then were subject to the least amount of daily variation. Five counts during that period were sufficient to detect a 25% change in numbers between years; counts made on all 50 days of the census period would detect a 5 to 7% change. There was little evidence for seasonal trends or serial correlation of counts during the census period, but attendance was negatively correlated with wind speed. Half of an apparent 17% increase in population between 1980 and 1981 was due to birds spending more time at their nest sites in the latter year, thereby increasing the mean of attendance counts. Despite such difficulties in the interpretation of attendance counts, birds were considered to be better counting units for population monitoring than nests, because nest densities were subject to large annual fluctuations in breeding effort.
10.2307/1370489|We measured body temperatures in three species of Brazilian hummingbirds, the Versicolored Emerald (Amazilia versicolor; body mass 4.1 g), the Black Jacobin (Melanotrochilus fuscus; body mass 7.7 g) and the Swallow-tailed Hummingbird (Eupetomena macroura; body mass 8.6 g), during overnight exposure to natural conditions of photoperiod and ambient temperatures. All three species entered torpor. In both A. versicolor and E. macroura, individuals entered torpor even if they had access to feeders up to the time of sunset. In contrast, M. fuscus was less prone to enter torpor and did so mainly if it had been fasting for more than two hours before sunset. Furthermore, M. fuscus often spent the whole night in torpor, whereas the two other species entered torpor for a variable, often short, period of the night. We observed more than one torpor bout during a single night in all three species. We suggest that multiple nocturnal torpors result from interruption of the normal torpor pattern by some (unknown) external stimuli. Any interrupted torpor was always followed by a new entry into torpor, supporting the view that there is a body mass threshold below which the hummingbirds must enter torpor. Our data also indicate that these hummingbird species might use torpor even if they are not energetically stressed.
4500966| As late as the 1940s the Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla) was the most abundant sandpiper breeding at Churchill, Manitoba. By the 1960s it had undergone a sharp decline, and by the mid-1990s the local population consisted of 11 pairs in a single colony. Nesting was last documented in 2001. Declines had also become evident at several other breeding sites along the Hudson Bay coast of Manitoba and Ontario, as well as in the number of migrants detected on the Atlantic coast of Canada and the northern United States. Information on the biology of the Churchill population in 1993-2004 largely agreed with that gathered at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, in the 1980s: reproductive success was good and new birds continued to join the colony; however, the number of breeding attempts by individuals was low and decreasing. As there is no evidence that the decline was related to local factors (e.g., altered habitats, climate change), it is probably attributable to mortality in the nonbreeding season, which leaves fewer birds available to return north. Whether causality can be fully resolved is problematic. Monitoring migrants can reveal population trends and studies on the breeding grounds can help frame hypotheses, but both approaches are time-consuming and provide only partial answers. In such cases, restoration of declining species may be best served by fostering habitat conservation throughout a species' range. /// Hasta los aos 40 Calidris pusilla fue el chorlo ms abundante que criaba en Churchill, Manitoba. Para los aos 60, esta especie ya haba sufrido una marcada disminucin y para la mitad de los 90 la poblacin local estaba integrada por 11 parejas que se encontraban en una nica colonia. La nidificacin fue documentada por ltima vez en el 2001. La disminucin se haba vuelto evidente tambin en varios otros sitios de cra a lo largo de la costa de la Baha Hudson de Manitoba y Ontario, y en el nmero de migrantes detectados en la costa atlntica de Canad y el norte de Estados Unidos. La informacin sobre la biologa de las poblaciones de Churchill obtenida entre 1993 y 2004 coincidi en gran medida con la obtenida en la Baha La Prouse, Manitoba, en los aos 80: el xito reproductivo fue bueno y nuevas aves siguieron integrndose a la colonia. Sin embrago, el nmero de intentos reproductivos de los individuos fue bajo y decreciente. Como no hay evidencia de que la disminucin se relacion con factores locales (e.g., alteracin del hbitat, cambio climtico), se puede atribuir probablemente a la mortalidad en la estacin no reproductiva, lo que conduce a que menos individuos regresan al norte; sin embrago, identificar de modo concluyente las causas es problemtico. El monitoreo de las aves migratorias puede revelar las tendencias poblacionales y los estudios en las reas reproductivas pueden ayudar a proponer hiptesis, pero ambos enfoques requieren mucho tiempo y slo brindan respuestas parciales. En estos casos, la restauracin de especies en declive podra beneficiarse en mayor medida impulsando la conservacin del hbitat a lo largo de la totalidad de sus rangos de distribucin. 
4123201| We compared the song structure of 19 species of forest grosbeaks and saltators based on the songs of 271 individuals recorded from Argentina to Canada, and analyzed their ecological correlates. On each spectrogram we measured eight temporal, frequency, and structural features of the song. Both a principal components analysis and a univariate analysis showed consistent differences in song structure between open and closed habitats. These differences were also found in an independent contrasts analysis, in which phylogenetic relationships between the species of the group were taken into account. In particular, the songs of species living in open habitats had wider bandwidths and higher maximum frequencies than those of species living in more closed habitats. In addition, the songs of open-habitat species had more notes, which were of shorter duration. These findings are compatible with predictions derived from the Acoustic Adaptation Hypothesis, according to which bird song structure is adapted to the habitat in which the signal is used. /// Se compar la estructura del canto de 19 especies de cardinalinos y se analizaron sus correlatos ecolgicos. El estudio se bas en los cantos de 271 individuos grabados entre la Argentina y Canad. En cada espectrograma se midieron ocho variables, incluyendo temporales, de frecuencia y estructurales. Tanto un anlisis de componentes principales como el anlisis univariado mostraron diferencias consistentes en la estructura del canto entre los ambientes cerrados y abiertos. Estas diferencias tambin se encontraron al realizar un anlisis de contrastes independientes, en el cual se tuvieron en cuenta las relaciones filogenticas entre las especies del grupo. En particular, los cantos de las especies de ambientes abiertos tuvieron un mayor ancho de banda y una mayor frecuencia mxima que los de especies de ambientes cerrados. Los cantos de las especies de ambientes abiertos tuvieron por otro lado un mayor nmero de notas, las cuales fueron adems ms cortas. Estos resultados son compatibles con la Hiptesis de Adaptacin Acstica, que postula que la estructura del canto de las aves est adaptada al ambiente en el cual la seal es utilizada. 
10.2307/1368104|Point counts and mist-net surveys were employed to study the winter distribution of nearctic migratory landbirds in Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. Overwintering migrants comprised 42 regularly occurring species, and accounted for 30-58% (mean = 41%) of the individual birds encountered in surveys of a wide range of natural and disturbed habitats. Some migratory species were encountered most frequently in pastures, agricultural fields, or brushy second growth, but the main habitat for many migrants was tropical forest. Migratory and resident species showed similar degrees of specialization with respect to the successional maturity of their habitats, but residents were more likely to specialize on particular types of mature forest. After mist-net capture data were standardized by rarefaction, there were no statistically significant differences in the ratio of migrants to permanent residents in habitats that ranged from pasture, through brushy old fields, to mature semievergreen forest. For any given number of captures, species richness of both migrants and residents was substantially higher in mist-net samples from pastures and brushy old fields than in those from mature semievergreen forest. With few exceptions, nearctic migratory species that breed in mature temperate-zone forest occurred both in forest and in brushy second growth during winter, although some species were substantially less frequent in the latter habitat. In contrast, overwintering migrants that breed in edge or field habitats tended to avoid tropical forest in the Yucatan.
10.2307/1370147| The morphology of the reproductive organs of both male and female Reed Buntings (Emberiza schoeniclus) are described in relation to the high level of sperm competition exhibited by the species as a result of extra-pair copulation behavior. In males, the volume of the cloacal protuberance in relation to body weight was 26.7 mm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, which is relatively large for a socially monogamous passerine. The weight of the testes was 23% greater than that expected for a bird of comparable size, and the spermatozoa were among the longest recorded for any avian species (mean length = 291 m). The morphology of the female tract also showed adaptations associated with a high level of sperm competition: the sperm storage tubules were extremely long (mean length = 865 m). 
10.1525/cond.2011.100182|Areas where divergent taxa come into secondary contact are important in identifying the reproductive barriers that may have evolved between them. Here we investigate whether song variation plays a role in maintaining a recently described hybrid zone between MacGillivray's (
10.2307/1369561|Plant tannins are known to impede vertebrate protein digestion. The severity of their impact on vertebrates, particularly birds, may be a function of the relative presence of lipids and proteins (or individual amino acids) in the diet. We examined the effects on six captive Western Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma californica) of dietary lipids and proteins in artificial diets that varied in tannin activity. Tannin variation in the artificial diets was within the range of concentrations in Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) acorns, an important winter food. Jays lost mass on low-protein diets and lost the most mass on low-protein, high-tannin diets. A significant protein-tannin interaction existed such that tannin effects were eliminated in high-protein diets. No significant changes in weight were associated with any lipid treatments.
10.2307/1368108|A total of 405 and 12 hr was spent observing adult and immature Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber), respectively, in Yucatan, Mexico, from April through August 1987. Feeding (28.7-46.4%), preening (14.8-29.7%), and resting (8.8-19.3%) were the major activities of adults during each month. Incubation, nest building, and other activities associated with reproduction were highest during the nesting period of May and June. Immatures spent most of their time feeding (57.2-68.5%) and <1% of their time in activities associated with breeding. Adult activity varied somewhat among habitat types, with feeding being an important activity in man-made ponds associated with commercial salt operations. Conservation measures at this time should seek to maintain the integrity of the salinity regime within the estuary.
1370343| Ancient Murrelets (Synthliboramphus antiquus) are subarctic seabirds that breed on islands from British Columbia through Alaska to China. In this study, we used sequence variation in the mitochondrial control region and cytochrome b gene to estimate the extent of genetic differentiation and gene flow among populations both within British Columbia and across the North Pacific. Results suggest that genetic differentiation is low and female-mediated gene flow is high among colonies within British Columbia, in agreement with banding studies. Surprisingly, genetic differentiation appears to be low and gene flow high between British Columbia and Asia. The effective female population size appears to be stable, but the species may have undergone a range expansion. These results suggest that Ancient Murrelets from throughout the North Pacific may represent a single management unit for conservation. /// Synthliboramphus antiquus es una especie de ave marina subrtica que se reproduce en islas desde British Columbia a travs de Alaska hasta China. En este estudio estimamos el grado de diferenciacin gentica y de flujo gnico entre poblaciones localizadas dentro de British Columbia y a travs del Pacfico Norte. Nos basamos en la variacin en secuencias de la regin control y el gen citocromo b del ADN mitocondrial. Los resultados sugieren baja diferenciacin gentica y alto flujo gnico mediado por las hembras entre las colonias de British Columbia, lo que es consistente con estudios de aves anilladas. Sorprendentemente, la diferenciacin gentica parece ser baja y el flujo gnico alto entre British Columbia y Asia. El tamao efectivo de la poblacin de hembras parece estar estable, pero la especie podra haber expandido su rango de distribucin. Estos resultados sugieren que los S. antiquus de todo el Pacfico Norte pueden representar una sola unidad de manejo en trminos de conservacin. 
10.2307/1369945|Variation in clutch size, egg size and clutch completion dates was studied in a population of Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) over 5 summers in Churchill, Manitoba. Clutch size variation was greatest in 1992, a year of unusually low summer temperatures, with almost 25% of clutches containing less than four eggs. More eggs were left unhatched in the nest in 1992 than in any other year. Clutch completion dates were negatively correlated with the average temperature during the pre-laying period. Synchrony of nesting was greatest in 1994, the warmest year. Egg volume and mass were not reduced as a result of the cold summer, and the variation in egg volume and mass attributable to differences among females was similar and significant in all years. Repeatabilities of all egg measurements were high. Egg volume was moderately correlated with female body mass but not with female wing length nor female condition (mass/wing length), a result consistent with that found in other shorebirds. Egg size did not vary consistently with laying order, suggesting strong selection for uniformity in egg size within a clutch.
10.2307/1368400| We studied the validity of predictive equations for total body fat in shorebirds based on external morphology and body mass with data from Sanderlings (Calidris alba) collected in New Jersey, Texas, Panam, and Per. Equations derived at any one of these locations are not valid when applied to the other locations because changes in body mass involve both changes in fat and lean mass and because structural differences exist between these populations. We recommend that equations to predict total body fat in shorebirds derived at one location should not be applied to a different geographic area. 
10.2307/1368530|Nest-site selection was studied in Evening Grosbeaks (Coccothraustes vespertinus) living in two areas (Eldora and Wild Basin) of the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. One hundred and twenty-nine original variables were reduced to compare nesting (NS; n = 49) and nonnesting control (NNS; n = 10) sites using multivariate and univariate statistics. Overall, four of the five variables best discriminating between NS and NNS were measures of habitat density (deciduous stem intersect, deciduous canopy cover) or shrub dispersion (large clumps, irregular matrix). Although there were distinct differences between the two NS with respect to shrub dispersion, canopy cover, and the relative proportion of major vegetation, NS were more open than NNS within the same area. In both Eldora and Wild Basin, grosbeaks showed a preference for ponderosa pines (Pinus ponderosa) in which to build high camouflaged nests, close to the main tree trunk, predominantly with southern or northern exposures. We suggest that these nest locations provide (1) high visibility for detection of potential predators, (2) the opportunity for grosbeaks to see their nests from a distance, (3) easy access for departure and arrival, (4) aid in thermoregulation, and (5) protection from wind and rain and increased nest stability.
4096538| We reconstructed the phylogeny and estimated mitochondrial DNA diversity to assess levels of divergence and population structure in the Black-spotted Barbet complex. This complex consists of three Amazonian taxa: Capito niger, C. auratus, and C. brunneipectus. Sequence divergence between these taxa is relatively high and all are monophyletic, which is consistent with the classification of these taxa as distinct species. Within C. auratus, a relatively deep split in the gene tree yields two reciprocally monophyletic groups separated by the Amazon, Solimes, and Ucayali Rivers. Apparently, these rivers serve as an effective barrier to mtDNA gene flow between these populations of C. auratus. Carotenoid plumage coloration did not contain phylogenetic information for this group and several subspecies of C. auratus named on the basis of such coloration were not monophyletic based on mtDNA comparisons. However, mtDNA variation suggests that C. auratus contains at least two evolutionarily significant units which might indicate two geographically separate species-level taxa. /// Reconstruimos la filogenia y estimamos la diversidad de ADN mitocondrial del complejo de Capito niger para evaluar los niveles de divergencia y la estructura poblacional. Este complejo consiste en tres taxa amaznicos: Capito niger, C. auratus y C. brunneipectus. La divergencia en las secuencias entre estos taxa es relativamente alta y todos son monofilticos, lo cual concuerda con la clasificacin de estos taxa como especies distintas. Dentro de C. auratus, el rbol gnico tiene una divisin relativamente profunda en dos grupos recprocamente monofilticos que estn separados por los ros Amazonas, Solimes y Ucayali. Aparentemente, estos ros sirven como una barrera eficaz que impiden el flujo gentico de ADN mitocondrial entre estas poblaciones de C. auratus. La coloracin carotenoide del plumaje no provey informacin filogentica para este grupo, y varias subespecies de C. auratus nombradas con base en este tipo de coloracin no fueron monofil ticas segn comparaciones de ADN mitocondrial. Sin embargo, la variacin de ADN mitocondrial sugiere que C. auratus contiene por lo menos dos unidades evolutivas, las cuales podran ser dos especies geogrficamente separadas. 
10.2307/1367596|The influence of plot size on the results of a Winter Bird-Population Study was explored by dividing a 58.3-ha (144-acre) area of apparently homogeneous mature pine habitat into nine 6.5-ha subplots. Bird density and species richness were estimated for the nine subplots. To simulate progressively larger sample areas, all possible combinations of the subplot survey results were made. Variation in estimates of the density and species richness in the 6.5-ha subplots was large and it decreased as plot size increased. Most of the variation in the distribution of birds among subplots was related to variation in the habitat. In addition to the effects of plot size on census results, the choice of an appropriate size involves consideration of factors such as grid size, sampling speed and time available for censusing. The optimal size in this open pine habitat was between 20 and 25 ha. Plots of this size can be surveyed easily in the early morning hours and would provide estimates of approximately 80% of the species seen on a plot three times as large. In the present study, plots of 6.5 ha provided estimates of only 40% (range 16% to 60%) of the species observed on 58.3 ha. Rarefaction, a statistical technique, is applied here as a method of comparing species richness among plots of different size. If one standardizes the number of individuals to the lowest number in a set of plots to be compared, rarefaction can be used to determine the number of species expected in a sample of that size.
10.2307/1367439|In studying the Great Grebe (Podiceps major) in Chile, I identified 14 displays and 8 adult vocalizations. The courtship displays were performed throughout the year, indicating maintenance of the pair bond after nesting ends, and suggesting that the grebes form long-term pairs. Breeding was not confined to any season; pair bond maintenance may be an adaptation that permits reproduction whenever environmental conditions are favorable. The "mutual" courtship displays--displays performed only by two grebes--were performed in significantly more ceremonies than were certain courtship displays performed by individuals. Shaking the closed wings during the rearing display was associated with copulation. The number of eggs on a nest platform was positively correlated with the degree to which the grebe covered the eggs with vegetation before leaving the nest. Both adults cared for the young, in some cases until the young were fully grown.
10.1525/cond.2011.100192|The causes and consequences of coloniality in seabirds, and larids in particular, have received extensive study. Here, we use the Herring Gull (
40072392|Changes in capelin (
10.2307/1367130|Transects and point counts were compared as methods for measuring species richness, relative abundance, and density of birds in oak-pine woodlands of central California. Efficiency of the two methods for measuring species richness or giving total counts varied with study design and season. We recommend point counts over transects for most studies in which results of these methods are suitable. Frequency is a measure of relative abundance that should be used only with due caution for its limitations. Density estimates are probably superior to total counts for indexing relative abundance, but they are limited because: (1) the small sample sizes attained in most studies permit density estimation for only a small percentage of the species detected; and (2) available evidence challenges assumptions that density estimates by transects or point counts are acceptably accurate.
10.2307/1368766|Rates of CO<sub>2</sub> production by breeding Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) (mean mass, 386 g) were measured by using doubly-labeled water. Kittiwakes alternated days on and off the nest, while they brooded their nestlings. Field metabolic rates (FMR) in nonforaging birds averaged 2.43 ml CO<sub>2</sub>/g hr, or 596 kJ/day. This is 1.9 times the basal metabolic rate (BMR), measured in the laboratory to be 1.31 ml CO<sub>2</sub>/g hr, or 314 kJ/day. FMRs in foraging birds averaged 4.04 ml CO<sub>2</sub>/g hr, or 992 kJ/day which is 3.2 times BMR. The rate of food consumption by an adult kittiwake, calculated on the basis of the chemical composition and digestibility of capelin (Mallotus villosus, the most important dietary item at Hopen Island) was 315 g of fresh matter per bird every other day. A colony of 3,000 breeding pairs of kittiwakes at Hopen Island, using the fishing grounds around the island, would consume about 1,245 kg of fresh fish per day, and add about 76 kg (dry matter) of guano to the marine ecosystem during the chick-rearing period.
1370115| During winter, adult Tufted Titmice (Baeolophus bicolor) share their territories with both offspring and immigrant young. For such situations in social permanent-resident birds, the prolonged brood care hypothesis (Ekman and Rosander 1992) states that adults should be more tolerant of their own young than of unrelated immature birds, allowing their offspring better access to limited resources. We tested two predictions from this hypothesis using the Tufted Titmouse: (1) offspring should be in better nutritional condition than immigrants; (2) territorial adults should be more aggressive toward immigrant immature birds than toward their own offspring. We estimated relatedness using DNA fingerprinting. To assess nutritional condition, we used a fatness index and ptilochronology. We found no difference between the condition of retained and immigrant young. We tested the second prediction by recording aggressiveness among the individually marked members of social groups. Supporting the second prediction, territorial adults were significantly more aggressive toward unrelated than related immature birds. /// Durante el invierno, los individuos adultos de Baeolophus bicolor comparten sus territorios con su descendencia y con jvenes inmigrantes. Dada esta situacin en aves sociales que son residentes permanentes, la hiptesis de cuidado prolongado de la nidada (Ekman y Rosander 1992) establece que los adultos deberan ser ms tolerantes con sus propios hijos que con aves inmaduras no relacionadas, permitindole a su descendencia mejor acceso a recursos limitados. Evaluamos dos predicciones de esta hiptesis usando a B. bicolor: (1) los hijos deberan presentar una mejor condicin nutricional que los inmigrantes; (2) los adultos territoriales deberan ser ms agresivos con las aves inmaduras inmigrantes que con su propia descendencia. Estimamos el grado de parentezco utilizando huellas dactilares genticas. Empleamos un ndice de grasitud y ptilocronologa para establecer la condicin nutricional. No encontramos diferencias entre las condiciones de los jvenes retenidos e inmigrantes. Evaluamos la segunda prediccin registrando la agresividad entre miembros individualmente marcados de los grupos sociales. Los adultos territoriales fueron significativamente ms agresivos con aves no relacionadas que con inmaduros relacionados, apoyando la segunda prediccin. 
10.2307/1368948|Two nests of the Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) were found in old-growth (300 + years) Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) trees in Big Basin Redwoods State Park, Santa Cruz County, California. These were the third and fourth known North American tree nests, and the first to be found by searching from the ground without the use of radio-telemetry. Ground-search techniques for finding nests are presented. Both nests were in the incubation stage when found. Each was observed from a distance for 15 days and 34 days, respectively. Incubation shifts lasted 24 hr with the adults exchanging duties at dawn. Flight behavior near the nest is described. Corvid predation caused both nests to fail, and may be a problem where murrelets nest in areas of high human usage. After nest failure, each tree was climbed. Both nests were located in the inner canopy, mid-crown portion of the trees. Nest branches were large, moss-covered, horizontal branches that were well shaded. One nest was a previously undescribed type of constructed nest made up of small Douglas-fir twigs and foliose lichens. The other nest was a natural depression in a moss-covered limb. Eggshell fragments were similar to previously described eggs. Nest site characteristics are compared to characteristics of the other known Marbled Murrelet tree nests.
10.2307/1368428|The White-chinned Petrel (Procellaria aequinoctialis) and Sooty Shearwater (Puffinus griseus) are two of the most abundant pelagic seabirds in the southern Benguela region, off the west coast of South Africa. Stomach samples collected at 3-month intervals during 2 years revealed that White-chinned Petrels fed on trawler offal throughout the year, whereas Sooty Shearwater diets varied temporally between three species of pelagic school-fish. Crustaceans were minor prey of both species, and squids were eaten only by White-chinned Petrels. Trawlers influenced the distribution of White-chinned Petrels more than that of Sooty Shearwaters. Dietary differences between the two seabirds result from morphological adaptations related to different foraging methods employed by the birds.
10.2307/1367473|Short-billed Marsh Wrens (Cistothorus platensis) examined experimentally offered nests of Red-winged Blackbirds, Yellow-headed Blackbirds, Long-billed Marsh Wrens, and conspecifics. They also pecked eggs of Zebra Finches, Long-billed Marsh Wrens, Red-winged Blackbirds, and Cinnamon Teal, and once a male wren also pecked nestling Red-winged Blackbirds. Marsh wrens broke all small eggs, but the largest (teal) eggs survived the wrens' attacks. Results suggested that Short-billed Marsh Wrens attack eggs regardless of their size and color, but can destroy only small eggs. These wrens probably have a significant impact on nesting success of other small sympatric birds, including conspecifics. By destroying nests, Short-billed Marsh Wrens probably exclude other birds from the vicinity of their activity centers and thereby reduce interference from them.
10.1525/cond.2012.110007|The Least Tern (
4151032| Conspecific brood parasitism occurs in many songbird species but has not been reported in Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia). In three separate study areas where breeding Song Sparrows experience heavy nest predation pressure and Brownheaded Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism, we observed six instances in which newly laid eggs were attributable to female Song Sparrows other than the nest owners. We also recorded the ejection of a sparrow egg from each of two videotaped nests. In a fourth study area without cowbird parasitism, genetic analysis of parentage revealed no conspecific brood parasitism. Given that egg ejection can accompany conspecific parasitism in Song Sparrows, we suggest that daily nest checks are insufficient to document the frequency of this tactic in some species in the absence of egg marking, videotaping, or genetic analyses. Since standard nest monitoring techniques may fail to detect conspecific brood parasitism, this behavior could be more prevalent than currently thought. /// El parasitismo coespecifico de cra ocurre en muchas especies de aves canoras, pero no ha sido reportado en Melospiza melodia. En tres reas de estudio separadas, donde M. melodia est expuesta a una fuerte presin de prdatin y parasitismo por Molothrus ater, observamos seis instancias en las que los huevos recin puestos fueron atribuibles a otras hembras de M. meloda en vez que a la propia hembra del nido. Tambin registramos la eyeccin del nido de un huevo de M. meloda en cada uno de los dos nidos grabados en video. En un cuarto sitio de estudio sin parasitismo por parte de M. ater, un anlisis gentico de paternidad revel la ausencia de parasitismo coespecifico de cra. Dado que la eyeccin de huevos puede acompaar al parasitismo coespecifico en M. melodia, sugerimos que el seguimiento diario de nidos es insuficiente para documentar la frecuencia de esta tctica en algunas especies si no se realiza la marcacin de huevos, grabaciones en video o anlisis genticos. Puesto que las tcnicas estndar de monitoreo pueden fallar en detectar el parasitismo de cra coespecifico, este comportamiento podra ser ms frecuente de lo que se piensa en la actualidad. 
10.2307/1366893|The incubation period (30.3 days) of the Gray-backed Tern (Sterna lunata) is longer than would be expected from the mass of the freshly-laid egg. Measured values for the water loss from unpipped eggs, the water-vapor conductance and the functional pore area of the shell, and the number of pores in the shell are all lower than predictions based solely on fresh-egg mass, but are more closely approximated by equations incorporating incubation period as well as the egg's mass. The total water loss from the egg represents 14.7% of its mass when freshly laid. The interval between the first star-fracture of the shell and the hatching of the chick is 13.5% of the total incubation period, but accounts for 30.8% of the egg's total water loss.
10.2307/1370007| We studied incubation behavior of Spectacled Eiders (Somateria fischeri) on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta in 1996. We trapped 19 females on their nests and weighed them in early incubation and again at hatch. Average daily weight loss for incubating females was 16.6  1.0 g day<sup>-1</sup>, which resulted in a cumulative loss of 26% of body weight throughout incubation. Nest attendance was monitored for a portion of the incubation period using temperature sensing artificial eggs. Incubation constancy averaged 90  1%. Average recess length was 37.1  0.9 min, and nests cooled an average of 4.2  0.1C during recesses. Recess frequency averaged 2.5  0.1 recesses day<sup>-1</sup>, and most recesses (70%) occurred between 10:00 and 22:00. Incubation constancy varied among females, but was not related to changes in body weight or incubation period. There was no influence of ambient temperature on incubation recess length, however most recesses were taken during the warmest part of the day. We found considerable variation among females in patterns of daily incubation constancy, nest cooling, recess frequency, and recess length. It is not clear from our results what factors constrain incubation behavior of Spectacled Eiders, but we suggest that individual females respond to a complex suite of variables. 
10.2307/1369436|We determined the frequency of extra-pair paternity and intraspecific brood parasitism in European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) by performing multilocus DNA fingerprinting on 22 complete families from a population in southern Sweden. Among 92 nestlings, we did not detect any successful intraspecific brood parasitism. This confirms observational data that successful intraspecific brood parasitism is rare in this population. We detected eight extra-pair young. Except for one case, where all (two) nestlings were fathered by another male than the one attending the nest, no more than one nestling in each nest was fathered by an extra-pair male. Although the degree of extra-pair paternity was higher in nests of secondary females than in those of primary and monogamous females, this difference was not significant. There was no relationship between a male's paternity with his primary and secondary female during the same season. There was a tendency for males to loose paternity in the broods of secondary females when the fertile periods of his females overlapped considerably. We suggest that the relative ease by which female Starlings can be mate-guarded, the fact that mate-attraction and mate-guarding do not have to be exclusive activities and the high within pair copulation frequency in Starlings may keep the degree of extra-pair paternity low.
10.2307/1367506|The parameters of respiratory gas exchange and growth in White Tern (Gygis alba) eggs were examined during natural incubation. The O
4096490| The historical relationships of ground antbirds and their relatives have long been unresolved. Here, I present a phylogenetic analysis of ground antbird (Formicariidae) relationships based on DNA sequence data from the cytochrome-b and ND2 genes. Results support novel hypotheses of historical relationships, including two revisions of suboscine taxonomy: (1) paraphyly of the Formicariidae with the tentative inclusion of at least some rhinocryptids (Liosceles, Rhinocrypta, and Scytalopus) in the ground antbird lineage, and (2) placement of Pittasoma with Conopophaga in the Conopophagidae. /// Las relaciones histricas entre los Formicariidae y sus parientes ban permanecido sin resolver por mucho tiempo. Aqu presento un an lisis filogentico de las relaciones de los Formicariidae basado en datos de secuencias de ADN de los genes citocromo-b y ND2. Los resultados apoyan nuevas hiptesis sobre las relaciones histricas, incluyendo dos revisiones acerca de la taxonoma de los suboscines: la inclusin tentativa de al menos algunos rinocrptidos (Liosceles, Rhinocrypta y Scytalopus) en Formicariidae, y el emplazamiento de Pittasoma en Conopophagidae. 
10.2307/1368277|Field observations reveal that night-migrating passerines sometimes fly during early morning hours. Functional consideration of daytime flights have overshadowed proximate questions regarding the sensory basis of daytime orientation. I conducted a series of early morning cage-orientation experiments in spring with four species of migrating warblers (Parulinae) on the north coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Whereas birds were poorly oriented on overcast mornings, the headings for three species were oriented in a seasonally appropriate direction when individuals were tested on clear mornings with the horizon glow from the rising sun visible. Moreover, the direction of activity was influenced in a predictable way by manipulating the pattern of skylight polarization. Skylight at sunrise appears to function as a source of directional information for morning flights of migrating warblers. This interpretation is consistent with field observations of the orientation behavior of free-flying migrants, and reinforces speculation that solar-related information is involved in the orientation of ongoing migratory flight, or redetermined orientation following nighttime displacements. In any case, the responsiveness of several species in a cage situation may allow controlled experiments on the question of course correction and redetermined migratory flight.
10.2307/1370200|We examined communal brooding in California Quail Callipepla californica. Most broods are reared by their parents alone, but 23 of 195 (12%) broods combined and were reared communally by all their living parents. A 26% greater fledgling rate of communally reared chicks was not statistically significant. Parents of communal broods lived significantly longer (3.1 years) than parents of single broods (1.9 years) and hatched significantly more young (36.3 vs. 15.7 young) during their lifetimes. Those that raised their first surviving brood communally were significantly (2.8 times) more likely to hatch a brood the following year. Communal brood fathers sentineled significantly less and ate significantly more. We do not know whether parents initiated brood merging, thereby increasing their direct fitness, or the young initiated brood merging, thereby increasing their inclusive fitness. Broods combined only when they were hatched from nearby nests. Communal brood rearing may be constrained by the absence of pre-hatch contact between the parents, or by the limited mobility of young chicks.
1370612| I quantified the foraging ecology of omnivorous Tangara tanagers with three methods commonly used in the study of foraging behavior. The relative importance of two food types, arthropods and fruits, varied largely depending on which method was used for data analyses. Arthropod foraging was more important than fruit foraging when calculated using the duration of foraging. In contrast, fruit foraging was more important when characterized by the food taken at initial observation and the total number of food items taken. This bias was probably caused by the difference in distribution and abundance of these two food types. Although numerous studies have used the frequency of initial observations to quantify bird foraging behavior, this method tends to underestimate the importance of highly rewarding but scarce food types in time budgets and tends to overestimate the same food type in the number of food items in birds' diets. /// Cuantifiqu la ecologa de forrajeo de las tangaras omnvoras del gnero Tangara con tres mtodos comnmente utilizados en el estudio del comportamiento de forrajeo. La importancia relativa de dos tipos de alimento, artrpodos y frutos, vari significativamente dependiendo de qu mtodo se utiliz para analizar los datos. El forrajeo de artrpodos fue ms importante que el forrajeo de frutos cuando calculado utilizando duracin del forrajeo. En contraste, el forrajeo de frutos fue ms importante cuando caracterizado por el tipo de alimento consumido en observacin inicial y el nmero total de alimentos consumidos. Este sesgo fue causado probablemente por la diferencia en distribucin y abundancia de estos dos tipos de alimento. Muchos estudios han utilizado la frecuencia de observaciones iniciales para cuantificar el comportamiento de forrajeo de las aves. Sin embargo, este mtodo tiende a subestimar la importancia de aquellos alimentos, de alta recompensa pero escasos, en trminos del tiempo invertido en su bsqueda. Al mismo tiempo, este mtodo tiende a sobrestimar estos mismos tipos de alimento cuando se considera el nmero de artculos alimenticios en la dieta de las aves. 
10.1525/cond.2011.110009|Estimates of productivity usually ignore survival during the postfledging period, the time between a bird's leaving its nest and departure for migration or movement to an area for wintering. During the first 13 weeks after fledging, young birds are limited in mobility, making them vulnerable to fatality, especially from predation. To help fill this information gap, we examined the period of postfledging dependence of the Willow (
10.2307/1369709| We conducted a capture-recapture study on the population size and trends of the Ashy Storm-petrel (Oceanodroma homochroa) on Southeast Farallon Island (SEFI), California, based upon data collected in 1971, 1972, and 1992. From March through August, birds were lured to fixed-site sampling locations using taped vocalization playback. Using program JOLLY, we estimated population size and evaluated statistical models using goodness-of-fit and Likelihood Ratio tests. On the southwestern slope of Lighthouse Hill, amidst prime breeding habitat, numbers of breeding birds decreased from 1,271  140 (x  SE) in 1972 to 710  117 in 1992, a decline of 44% (approximate 95% CI = 22-66% decline;  = -2.8% per annum); for a variety of reasons, we consider this to be the most reliable indicator of population change. In 1971, on a portion of SEFI relatively disjunct from the sampling area in 1972, 2,131  322 breeding birds were estimated. To produce an overall early 1970s estimate with which to compare to 1992, we summed population estimates from 1971 and 1972. An overall value of 6,461 birds, of which 3,402 (53%) were breeders, was obtained for the early period. In 1992, the overall population in roughly the same area was estimated at 4,284  409 birds, of which 1,990  408 (46%) were presumed breeders. These results, encompassing peripheral as well as more centrally located storm-petrel habitat, indicate an overall population decline of 34% and a comparable decline in breeding birds of 42% over the past two decades. However, oceanographic conditions varied between 1971-1972 and 1992, and reduced food availability in 1992 may have influenced colony attendance and breeding effort. Nonetheless, the apparent population decline over the past 20 years suggests that the species warrants management and/or additional protective status. 
1370339| Movements of 11 female and 1 male adult Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) wintering in coastal Gulf of Mexico, Tamaulipas, Mexico, were monitored with satellite-received transmitters (PTTs), 1997-1998. Median areas for minimum convex polygon winter home ranges at 50% and 90% levels (both years) were 1173 and 8311 ha, respectively. Most birds left wintering grounds in the first week of May. Duration of northward migration averaged 30 days. Distances between capture location and summer settling place were between 4580 and 5844 km; birds traversed 40.4-46.4 degrees of latitude. Birds summered between far western Canada and coastal west Greenland. One was followed to the same summering ground in both years. Autumnal migration routes were through the middle of the continent, and initiated in August and September. Falcons arrived on wintering grounds in September and October, averaging 40 days to make the journey. PTT data and capture locations of birds trapped in more than 1 year suggest fidelity to wintering areas, although perhaps not particular winter home ranges. /// Entre 1997 y 1998, se monitorearon con transmisores de satellite (PTTs) los movimientos de 12 halcones peregrinos adultos (Falco peregrinus; 11 hembras y 1 macho) invernando en la costa del Golfo de Mxico, Tamaulipas, Mxico. Se utilizaron niveles de precisin del 50% y 90% en los polgonos mnimos estimados para describir los hambitos hogareos de invernada (en ambos aos); stos fueron de 1173 y 8311 ha, respectivamente. La mayora de las aves abandonaron las areas de invernada en la primera semana de mayo. La duracin de la migracin hacia el Norte promedi 30 das. Las distancias entre los lugares donde las aves fueron capturadas y donde se establecieron en el verano variaron entre 4580 y 5844 km; as que stas recorrieron entre 40.4 y 46.4 grados de latitud. Los halcones pasaron el verano entre el lejano oeste de Canad y la costa oeste de Groenlandia. Uno de ellos fue seguido en ambos aos hasta la misma rea de veraneo. Las rutas migratorias del otoo tuvieron lugar a travs del centro del continente y se iniciaron en agosto y septiembre. Los halcones peregrinos llegaron a las reas de inviernada en septiembre y octubre, promediando 40 das para hacer el recorrido. Los datos de los PTTs e informacin sobre las ubicaciones de los lugares de captura de las aves atrapadas en ms de un ao sugieren fidelidad a las reas de invierno, pero tal vez no a hambitos hogareos particulares. 
10.1525/cond.2011.090190|We present the first quantitative comparative study between current (20062008) distributions of landbird and those recorded prior to the massive planting of transgenic soy beans in the Pampas of central Argentina (
10.2307/1367989|Feeding behavior of different age classes of Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) was studied in different habitats in Texas and Mexico; feeding methods were compared. Adults generally had higher capture success rates and shorter intervals between obtaining food items than young, while subadults were intermediate in both measures. Where food was most readily available (i.e., garbage dumps and fish offal), differences among age classes were negligible. Age differences increased when intervals between obtaining food increased, reflecting the greater difficulty of the feeding task. Proportionately more young fed in those situations where their interfood intervals and success rates most closely approached those of the adults. Young gulls thus appeared to compensate for their generally lower feeding success by feeding at certain sites.
10.2307/1367309|A brief history of ornithological exploration in northwestern Peru (Depts. of Tumbes, Piura, and Lambayeque) is given, with emphasis on recent work by the authors and other personnel of the Louisiana State University Museum of Zoology. New information on the distribution of 48 species is presented. Two species, Common Nighthawk (Chordeiles minor) and Black-and-white Warbler (Mniotilta varia), are reported in Peru for the first time.
10.2307/1368990|We examined morphological relationships of three Pacific coast populations of Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons). Adult geese were captured and measured at three breeding areas in Alaska and two wintering areas in California, 1980-1991. A two-step discriminant function analysis examined morphological differences among the three populations. Stepwise discriminant function procedures created the simplest measurement models. Each sex was analyzed separately since multivariate analysis of variance indicated that males were significantly larger than females for all three populations. Tule Greater White-fronted Geese (A. a. gambelli) were significantly larger than Pacific Greater White-fronted Geese (A. a. frontalis), hereafter Pacific Geese. The first step of discriminant function analysis created models to differentiate Tule Geese from the Pacific Geese. Bivariate stepwise discriminant function models consisting of only two measurements correctly classified 92% of males (bill height, bill width) and 96% of females (bill height, culmen) of these subspecies. The second step of discriminant function analysis compared a small population of Pacific Geese from the Bristol Bay Lowlands (BBL) of southwestern Alaska with the large population of Pacific Geese that breed on the Yukon-Kuskokwim River Delta (YKD) of westcentral Alaska. We developed models with three (culmen, diagonal tarsus, midtoe) and five (culmen, diagonal tarsus, midtoe, total tarsus, bill height) measurements from stepwise discriminant function analyses to correctly classify 72% of males and 74% of females of these populations. Thus, morphology of Tule Geese differed highly significantly from Pacific Geese, as expected, but differences between populations from the BBL and YKD areas were also significant. Morphometric analyses as these provided supporting evidence for clinal variation in populations of Greater White-fronted Geese. They also underscore a need for further studies of differences among North American populations of Greater White-fronted Geese to resolve classification and to allow formulation of subpopulation/subspecies management strategies.
1370684| Plumage blueness in Blue Grosbeaks (Passerina caerulea) is related to nutritional condition during molt, and bluer males hold larger territories with more food resources. We tested the hypothesis that females use male plumage brightness as a criterion in choosing mates. In a mate-choice aviary, we presented females with a choice between males whose feathers were either brightened with blue marker or dulled with black marker. Treatment resulted in an increase in the plumage intensity (reflectance at peak wavelength) of blue-treated males and a decrease in the intensity of black-treated males within the natural range of variation, while the wavelength of peak reflection (hue) remained unchanged. During mate-choice trials, females consistently preferred particular males, but choice was random with respect to treatment. Thus, the intensity of blue coloration of male Blue Grosbeaks appears not to function as a criterion in female mate choice. /// Estudios previos han demostrado que la coloracin azul del plumaje de Passerina caerulea est relacionada con la condicin nutricional durante la muda y que los machos de coloracin ms azul mantienen territorios ms grandes y con mayores fuentes de alimento. En el presente estudio, examinamos la hiptesis de que las hembras usan el brillo del plumaje como criterio para la seleccin de parejas. En una arena de seleccin de parejas, presentamos a las hembras con la opcin de elegir entre machos de plumaje coloreado artificialmente con marcador azul o machos de plumaje artificialmente coloreado con marcador negro. El tratamiento del plumaje produjo cambios en la intensidad de color de tal forma que incrementamos la intensidad de color en los machos tratados con marcador azul y redujimos la intensidad de aquellos tratados con marcador negro. La longitud de onda del pico de refleccin (tono) no cambi. Durante las pruebas de seleccin de pareja, las hembras mostraron una preferencia consistente por ciertos machos, pero la eleccin fue aleatoria con respecto al tratamiento. Por lo tanto, la intensidad de coloracin azul de P. caerulea no parece servir como criterio selectivo en la eleccin de pareja. 
10.2307/1369532|Black-throated Green Warblers (Dendroica virens) use coniferous vegetation as foraging and perching substrates at coastal sites in Maine and predominantly deciduous vegetation at inland sites in interior New Hampshire, despite the availability of both substrates. I tested the hypothesis that these habitat use patterns result from intrinsic preferences (fixed behavioral choices independent of environmental influence) by quantifying coniferous and deciduous vegetation use by individuals from New Hampshire and Maine in "common-garden" aviary experiments with equal substrate and prey availability. I also determined the strength of these preferences by skewing experimental prey distributions toward the less preferred vegetation type of birds from each region and measuring resulting substrate use. Individuals from coastal sites showed significantly greater preferences for coniferous vegetation as both perching and foraging substrates than did inland birds, which preferred deciduous vegetation. In skewed prey distribution experiments, individuals maintained their regional preferences for perching substrates, but shifted foraging substrates typically after first capturing all prey from the preferred vegetation type. Significant morphological variation (larger maxillar width, tibiotarsi, tarsometatarsi, humeri, and radii in coastal birds) was found among Black-throated Green Warblers from the two regions that corresponded to morphology- habitat associations found in other mixed coniferous and deciduous bird assemblages. These data suggest that intrinsic factors may be influential as a proximate microhabitat selection mechanism in the Black-throated Green Warbler.
10.2307/1368644|We analyzed nest productivity, population size, and temporal aspects of nesting, molting, and premigratory fat deposition in an isolated population of Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) on the eastern slope of Hart Mountain, Oregon, from 1972 to 1986. This population, nesting from 1,800 to 2,300 m, is near the lower altitudinal limit of oriantha's geographic distribution at the latitude of southern Oregon. Hart Mountain is an isolated massif separated by unsuitable habitat from nearby populations of this bird in the Steens Mountains (80 km) and the Warner Mountains (65 km). The sex ratio of adults was probably 1:1. The number of pairs in a defined sample area diminished from 41 in 1974 to 16 in 1979, and to a smaller but unmeasured number by 1982 to 1986. Losses of eggs and nestlings to predators and to snowstorms were comparatively very large, and productivity (0.99 to 1.72 fledged young per pair per year) was inadequate to replace losses of adults. The year-to-year return ratio ("minimum survivorship") of adults was likewise comparatively low, 0.37 in males, 0.31 in females, indicating that mortality was unusually large or that breeding-area fidelity was poor. Analysis of return ratios in relation to population size showed that new oriantha were recruited to the study population from other localities, but not in sufficient numbers to maintain stability. Summer time budgets of oriantha on Hart Mountain were very similar to time budgets of two other populations of these birds in the subalpine zone, suggesting that the Hart Mountain population was not stressed by shortages of time. The postnuptial and postjuvenal molts, in fact, were longer than those of oriantha in a subalpine population. We suggest that we witnessed in 1972 to 1986 the declining phase of repeated cycling of numbers, or of extinction and refounding, that may characterize insular populations or populations at their limits of distribution. On Hart Mountain, heavy losses of progeny to predators and weather were not being compensated by recruitment of adults from nearby sources.
10.2307/1369637|Breeding birds were counted using point counts at 50 treefall gaps and 50 closed-canopy sites within one of the largest tracts of old-growth forest in Europe. Numbers of species and individuals were slightly, but significantly, higher at gaps. Overall bird species composition differed substantially at gaps and non-gaps. Dunnock (Prunella modularis), Blackcap (Sylvia atricapilla), and Chiffchaff (Phylloscopus collybita) were significantly more abundant at gaps. Wood Warbler (Phylloscopus sibilatrix) and Red-breasted Flycatcher (Ficedula parva) were significantly more abundant at non-gaps. Warblers (Sylviidae), ground insectivores, ground nesters, and short-distance migrants were significantly more abundant at gaps, but no species groups were more abundant at non-gaps. Eight species breeding in forest edges and young plantations in eastern Poland were not recorded in natural treefall gaps. The proportion of tropical migrant passerines was considerably higher in closed-canopy stands (0.47) than at gaps (0.29), which contrasts with the situation in most managed European forests where the highest proportions of tropical migrants typically occur in young-growth forests.
10.1525/cond.2011.100174|Measures of reproductive success have long been assumed to be reasonable surrogates of fitness. We examined reproductive success and recruitment at the individual and population levels in Swainson's Hawks breeding in northern California. At the population level, we investigated whether the number of individuals subsequently recruited could be predicted by the number of offspring produced in any given year, finding no evidence of differences in probability of recruitment by cohort or year. Instead, age of recruits was the best predictor of probability of their being recruited into the local breeding population. At the individual level, we used generalized linear models to examine the correlation between lifetime reproductive success of individual females and the number of their offspring recruited. For individuals, the number of fledglings produced was significantly correlated with both the number of those offspring and of grandchildren recruited into the breeding population. We also examined the relationship between the average annual reproduction of an individual and the number of offspring recruited, finding these significantly correlated. The relationship was not linear: individuals producing moderate numbers of fledglings, on average, yielded the highest numbers of recruits, reflecting a trade-off between adult survival and reproduction. These results provide evidence that monitoring of reproductive success of individuals or a population can give reasonable indices of future recruitment if the study is continued for a long period. But individuals with the highest average rate of reproduction may not be the most fit.
40072374|Nantucket Island, Massachusetts, hosts the largest population of breeding Northern Harriers (
10.2307/1367391|Parameters of Red-winged Blackbird "conc-a-ree" advertising song were examined for stereotypy. The sample consisted of 538 songs of six territorial males recorded in one breeding season. Sonograms were made and parameters were measured. The range of values of the coefficient of variation for the most variable parameter was 1.8 to 23.3% while the range of values for the least variable parameter was 1.7 to 11.1%. Some aspects of Red-winged Blackbird song are probably subject to strong selective pressure favoring stereotypy.
10.2307/1367756| The energy expenditure of free-living nestlings has previously been estimated by any of several methods, each of which contains assumptions that may result in errors of uncertain magnitude. We evaluated the energy budget of nestling Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) by analyzing their oxygen consumption and their accumulation of energy in tissues during growth. These results were compared with those obtained by means of the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique. From data on oxygen consumption of individual nestlings in metabolism chambers at 35C, we calculated that a neonate metabolized 110.4 kJ of energy during the eight days that it occupied a nest. Applying standard conversion factors, we determined that a nestling accumulated 20.0 and 61.6 kJ of energy in lipid and non-lipid dry matter, respectively, for a total production (P) of 81.6 kJ. Direct evaluation of the energy in tissues by means of bomb calorimetry indicated that nestlings actually accumulated 75.2 kJ of energy, a value 7.8% lower than we previously obtained by converting lipid and non-lipid dry matter to energy with accepted conversion factors. From our analysis using data obtained in the laboratory, total metabolized energy (TME) equaled 185.8 kJ. Field metabolism, as estimated by DLW, summed to 171.5 kJ for the 8-day nestling period whereas estimates from oxygen consumption in the laboratory amounted to 110.4 kJ, a 35.6% difference. This disparity may have resulted from an increased energy expenditure for thermoregulation and activity during the latter stages of the nestling period, components which are not measured in laboratory experiments. Total metabolized energy (TME) as estimated by DLW (246.7 kJ) differed from laboratory estimates (182.9 kJ) by about 25%. Production (P) to TME ratios for Savannah Sparrows on a daily basis were nearly as high as those for altricial embryos (Agapornis) with values declining from a maxima of 0.4-0.5 to 0.1 near the end of the nestling period. 
10.2307/1368912|Under natural conditions goslings of Cackling Canada Geese (Branta canadensis minima) grew more rapidly (k = 0.074, Gompertz equation) than ducks but at a rate similar to other arctic nesting geese. Lipid levels in 2-day-old goslings were sufficient to meet energy requirements for less than one additional day. The liver, legs, and components of the gastrointestinal tract in Cackling Geese were relatively larger at hatching than in altricial birds. These tissues completed growth about three weeks before fledging as compared to one week in similar sized altricial birds. Early growth of digestive organs is probably related to the herbaceous diet of geese. Comparison of growth patterns of gallinaceous birds with those of geese superficially supports Ricklefs' hypothesis that proportion of mature tissue at hatching regulates growth rates. Examination of growth within the Anatidae, however, suggests that temporal patterns in food quality and availability may have been important influences in the evolution of growth patterns in these species.
40306117|Alteration of habitat has been highlighted as the most important factor causing declines in populations of grassland birds. In this study we characterized bird assemblages in cultivated and natural grasslands under four different agricultural schemes in Uruguay. We surveyed birds along transects to determine species richness, composition, and population density along this agricultural gradient. Although species richness was lower in the most natural grassland type (24 species), community composition and abundance patterns highlighted the importance of natural grasslands for the conservation of habitat specialists. An analysis of similarity showed that bird communities in the four grassland types were distinct (ANOSIM global
10.2307/1366814|We review metabolizable energy (ME) concepts and present evidence suggesting that the form of ME used for analyses of avian energetics can affect interpretation of results. Apparent ME (AME) is the most widely used measure of food energy available to birds. True ME (TME) differs from AME in recognizing fecal and urinary energy of nonfood origin as metabolized energy. Only AME values obtained from test birds fed at maintenance levels should be used for energy analyses. A practical assay for TME has shown that TME estimates are less sensitive than AME to variation in food intake. The TME assay may be particularly useful in studies of natural foods that are difficult to obtain in quantities large enough to supply test birds with maintenance requirements. Energy budgets calculated from existence metabolism should be expressed as kJ of AME and converted to food requirements with estimates of metabolizability given in kJ AME/g. Energy budgets calculated from multiples of basal metabolic rate (a component of maintenance energy), however, should be expressed as kJ of either TME or net energy depending on ambient temperature. Energy units should be stated explicitly to improve comparability and in some cases accuracy of energy analyses.
10.2307/1370198|Recent techniques for capturing Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) have created opportunities for studying them through systematic banding programs. One murrelet banded in breeding plumage during the summer of 1995 at Theodosia Inlet, on the Sunshine Coast of British Columbia, was recaptured in basic plumage in the fall of 1996 near Orcas Island in the San Juan Islands, Washington State, a distance of 220 km southeast from the original banding location. It was captured again at Theodosia Inlet in breeding plumage in the summer of 1997. This is the first evidence of long distance movement for the Marbled Murrelet. Seven color-marked individuals from the Theodosia Inlet population were located in the same geographic area outside the breeding season. Although our sample size is small, this suggests that both nonmigratory and migratory individuals occur within a single summering population.
10.2307/1368683|Heritability of the size of a hindlimb muscle, M. flexor cruris lateralis (FCRL), was analyzed in Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) to assess the potential of the trait to be influenced by evolutionary processes. Size of the FCRL appears to be highly heritable, although the birds are directionally asymmetrical and this asymmetry suggests that muscle size probably is not presently under rigid selective control. Heritabilities were recalculated after the removal of cases of doubtful parentage; the results lend support to a hypothesis of "quasi nest-parasitism" for Eastern Kingbirds.
10.2307/1368119|Frequency, magnitude, and timing of reproduction in Rio Grande Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) hens were studied in northeastern Colorado in 1986 and 1987. All adults (n = 12) and 95% (n = 20) of yearlings were known to attempt nesting. Adults initiated first nest attempts earlier than yearlings in 1987 but not 1986. Adults and yearlings did not differ in clutch size or nesting success. There was an inverse relationship between clutch size and initiation date of first nests by adults. Clutch and egg size, however, were not related. Among yearlings, body mass at capture in February was positively correlated with subsequent nest-initiation date. Environmental and social stimuli, but not winter severity, are hypothesized proximate conditions regulating reproduction in this Wild Turkey population.
10.2307/1368643|From 1982 through 1984, we studied riparian habitat use by cavity-nesting birds on three spatial scales: (1) nest trees, (2) nest sites (vegetation surrounding nest trees), and (3) disjunct fragments (0.1 to 32.3 ha) of floodplain forest. Nest cavities and nest trees differed substantially among bird species in terms of tree diameter at breast and nest height, nest height, nest-entrance diameter, whether the nest was in a limb or bole, and whether the nest entrance pointed above horizontal, horizontally, or below horizontal. Nest trees also differed significantly from randomly selected trees with respect to tree species and whether they were snags or nonsnag trees. Nest-entrance bearing did not differ significantly among species or from random. Distances between nest trees and the nearest section of stream differed significantly among some species. Habitats at species' nest sites and at randomly selected sites were indistinguishable in terms of shrub cover, tree density, snag density, vertical space between upper and lower canopies, distance to edge, and distance to opening. The size, shape, degree of isolation, and vegetative structure of habitat fragments significantly influenced species richness and abundance. Features of Wyoming streamside woodlands on all three spatial scales influence habitat use and are important in structuring communities of cavity-nesting birds. Some patterns of habitat use on the scales of nest trees and habitat fragments were not predictable from habitat associations observed elsewhere for the same species. Bird-habitat relations on one scale were (or were not) predictable from relations on other scales, depending on the species.
4122515| Red-headed Woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) populations are declining at a continental scale, yet little is known about their nest-site selection and reproduction within burned forests. We measured reproductive parameters and nest-site characteristics at 17 Red-headed Woodpecker nests and 17 random sites between 2001 and 2004 in the Black Hills, South Dakota. The average date the first egg was laid was 17 June, and the average clutch size was 5.4  0.4. The daily nest survival rate averaged 0.98 (overall nest success = 47%), and predation was the major cause of nest failure. Red-headed Woodpecker nests occurred farther from grassland edges in large diameter snags within severely burned quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) stands. High-severity fire within these aspen stands resulted in a combination of snag and understory characteristics that differed from the surrounding pine forest matrix. Interactions between cover type and burn severity may have important ecological consequences for Red-headed Woodpeckers in a mixed conifer forest. /// Las poblaciones de Melanerpes erythrocephalus estn disminuyendo a escala continental y sin embargo se conoce poco sobre la seleccin de sitios de nidificacin y la reproduccin de esta especie en bosques incendiados. Medimos parmetros reproductivos y caractersticas de los sitios de nidificacin en 17 nidos de M. erythrocephalus y en 17 sitios aleatorios entre los aos 2001 y 2004 en Black Hills, Dakota del Sur. La fecha promedio en que fue puesto el primer huevo fue el 17 de junio y el tamao promedio de la nidada fue de 5.4  0.4. La tasa diaria de supervivencia del nido promedi 0.98 (xito global del nido = 47%), y la depredacin fue la principal causa de fracaso del nido. Los nidos de M. erythrocephalus se ubicaron alejados de los bordes con los pastizales, en rboles muertos en pie de gran dimetro, dentro de bosques severamente quemados de Populus tremuloides. La incidencia de fuegos muy severos al interior de estos bosques de lamo gener una combinacin de caractersticas de los rboles muertos en pie y del sotobosque que difirieron de la matriz perifrica de bosque de pino. Las interacciones entre el tipo de cobertura y la severidad del incendio pueden tener consecuencias ecolgicas importantes para M. erythrocephalus en los boques mixtos de conferas. 
10.2307/1369721| The Hawaii Creeper (Oreomystis mana) is an endangered honeycreeper restricted to high-elevation forests on the island of Hawaii. I found eight Hawaii Creeper nests at Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge from 1991-1997. Three nests fledged one or two chicks each, one failed because of bad weather, and two were abandoned after kleptoparasitism of nest material by other bird species. Females did most nest construction and all incubation and brooding. Both sexes fed the nestlings by regurgitation, with the male making 57% of feedings. The male fed the female during incubation and brooding. At two nests construction took 11-15 days and the incubation period was 13 days. At one nest the clutch size was two and the nestling period was 18 days. Mean nest tree height and diameter were 21.7  2.9 m and 54.9  23.6 cm, respectively, and mean nest height was 12.0  4.3 m. Four nests were in cavities and four were open. One pair built an open and a cavity nest in the same season. During the breeding season males defended a small "type-B" territory with a radius around the nest of 15-20 m. Home ranges were larger in the nonbreeding season (11.9  7.7 ha) than in the breeding season (4.5  0.2 ha) and overlapped extensively. 
40306118|Woody vegetation has been linked to increased rates of Brown-headed Cowbird (
1370558| Parental behavior during incubation is an important aspect of the breeding system, which varies greatly among shorebirds. There are, however, few studies of incubation sex roles in shorebirds during darkness. In Charadrius species, males are believed to perform most of the incubation during the night. In this study of night- and daytime incubation sex roles in the Common Ringed Plover (Charadrius hiaticula), males tended to do more of the nighttime incubation (58%) than did females; during the day the roles tended to be reversed (males 45%), but the differences were not statistically significant. The reasons why mates of the Common Ringed Plover seem to share nocturnal incubation more equally than do other Charadrius species are not clear but may involve differences in food levels and day length between areas. /// El comportamiento parental durante la incubacin es un aspecto importante del sistema reproductivo, el cual vara considerablemente entre las aves playeras. Sin embargo, los estudios sobre el papel de los sexos en la incubacin nocturna en las aves playeras son escasos. En las especies de Charadrius, se cree que los machos realizan la mayor parte de la incubacin nocturna. En este estudio, sobre el papel de los sexos durante los periodos de incubacin nocturnos y diurnos en Charadrius hiaticula, los machos tendieron a realizar una mayor parte de la incubacin nocturna (58%) que las hembras; durante el da los papeles tendieron a revertirse (machos 45%), pero las diferencias no fueron significativas estadsticamente. Las razones por las cuales las parejas de C. hiaticula parecen compartir ms equitativamente la incubacin nocturna que otras especies de Charadrius no estn claras pero pueden estar relacionadas con diferencias en los niveles de alimento y duracin del da entre reas. 
40072331|Niceforo's Wrens (Thryothorus nicefori) and Rufous-and-white Wrens (Thryothorus rufalbus) are closely related Neotropical birds. Niceforo's Wrens, critically endangered endemic Colombian songbirds, are generally considered a sister species to Rufous-and-white Wrens, although some have suggested that they may represent a well-marked race. A careful comparison of the two taxa has never been conducted. Here we present a thorough study of the songs of male Niceforo's and Rufous-and-white Wrens based on recordings collected throughout both species' geographic ranges. Both species sing low-pitched songs composed of varied pure tone whistles. Niceforo's Wren songs are shorter and simpler with fewer syllables and syllable types; they have higher frequency trills and terminal syllables; and they have distinctive terminal syllables with a broader bandwidth, higher frequency of maximum amplitude, and a larger number of frequency modulations. Discriminant analysis based on fine structural details of songs differentiates the two species. In a subspecies-level discriminant analysis, all five subspecies of Rufous-and-white Wren cluster together and are distinct from Niceforo's Wren. Comparisons of morphometric measurements and plumage features reveal parallel differences in body size (Niceforo's Wrens are larger for most measurements) and plumage color (Niceforo's Wrens are more gray than Rufous-and-white Wrens). This study is the first to compare Rufous-and-white versus Niceforo's Wrens with a quantitative approach and supports the idea that these taxa are best understood as distinct species. /// Thryothorus nicefori y Thryothorus rufalbus son dos especies de aves Neotropicales estrechamente relacionadas. T. nicefori, un ave canora endmica de Colombia y en peligro crtico, es considerado una especie hermana de T. rufalbus, aunque hay quienes han sugerido que puede representar una raza bien marcada. Ningn trabajo comparando las dos especies ha sido conducido aun. Aqu presentamos un estudio cuidadoso de los cantos de machos de ambas especies basado en grabaciones colectadas a travs de su distributin geogrfica. Las dos especies emiten cantos a bajas frecuencias, compuestos por silbidos de tonos puros y variados. Los cantos de T nicefori son ms cortos y ms simples con menos slabas as como tipos de slabas; tienen slabas terminales y trinos de frecuencias ms altas; y slabas terminales con un ancho de banda ms amplio, frecuencia de mxima amplitud ms alta, y un nmero mayor de modulaciones de frecuencia. Los anlisis de funcin discriminante con base en las caractersticas estructurales de los cantos diferencian las dos especies. En un anlisis discriminante a nivel de subespecie, las cinco subspecies de T. rufalbus se agrupan juntas y son distintas de T. nicefori. Las comparaciones de las medidas morfomtricas y rasgos del plumaje revelan diferencias paralelas en el tamao del cuerpo (los individuos de T. nicefori son ms grandes en la mayora de las medidas) y el color del plumaje (Los individuos de T. nicefori son marcadamente ms grises que los individuos de T rufalbus). Este estudio es el primero que compara a T. rufalbus versus T nicefori mediante una aproximacin cuantitativa y soporta la idea de que estos taxa son mejor comprendidos como especies distintas.
10.1525/cond.2013.130025|The song of the Canyon Wren (
10.2307/1369188|Fledglings of the brood-parasitic Great Spotted Cuckoo (Clamator glandarius) often formed groups with other fledgling cuckoos. Group size ranged from one to five fledglings that originated from one to four different host nests. Each group of cuckoo fledglings was attended by a group of Black-billed magpies (Pica pica). Frequently, a fledgling group was attended by more magpies than ones involved in nestling care. The feeding rate of fledgling cuckoos increased with the number of cuckoos per group and number of adult magpies attending the group. Flocking behavior presumably was advantageous for cuckoo fledglings because each fledgling in larger groups received more food.
4096542| In contrast to vocalizations, nonvocal avian sounds have received little attention as potential means of communication. The high wing-beat frequency of hummingbirds in concert with the modified flight feathers of some species, generate sounds with the potential to play a role in communication. Technological limitations of previous studies have compromised assessment of the acoustic characteristics and importance of these sounds. This study was designed to record and analyze the sex-specific wing sounds of four hummingbird species, in order to provide a framework for further communication studies. We collected digital recordings of hummingbirds during hover flight and analyzed these with computer-based sound software. Our results showed that (1) males of all four species had higher wing-beat frequencies than conspecific females; (2) there was greater intra- and interindividual variation in wing-beat frequency than previously documented; (3) though not specifically tested, the sexual dimorphism and interspecific differences in wing-beat frequency support previous findings that wing-beat frequency is inversely related to wing length; and (4) that digital sound analysis is a powerful new tool for detailed study of wing sounds. We provide the first description of a characteristic behavior, which we have called the 'Cobra', in which an individual dramatically increases its wing-beat frequency. Finally, we have significantly expanded understanding of the wing trill sound produced by the modified outer primary feathers, and have shown that female Black-chinned Hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri) also produce wing trill components despite previous beliefs that these were unique to male hummingbirds. /// A diferencia de las vocalizaciones, los sonidos no-vocales de las aves han recibido poca atencin como medios potenciales de comunicacin. Las altas frecuencias de aleteo de los picaflores, en conjunto con las plumas modificadas para el vuelo de algunas especies, generan sonidos que tienen el potencial de jugar un rol en la comunicacin. Las limitaciones tecnolgicas de los estudios previos han dificultado la evaluacin de las caractersticas acsticas y de la importancia de estos sonidos. Este estudio fue diseado para grabar y analizar los sonidos de las alas especficos de cada sexo en cuatro especies de picaflores con el objetivo de sentar las bases para futuros estudios de comunicacin. Colectamos grabaciones digitales de picaflores durante el vuelo suspendido y las analizamos en computadoras con programas de sonido. Nuestros resultados mostraron que: (1) los machos de las cuatro especies tuvieron frecuencias de aleteo ms altas que las hembras coespecficas; (2) existi variacin intra- e inter-individual en la frecuencia de aleteo mayor que la documentada previamente; (3) aunque no fue evaluado especficamente, el dimorfismo sexual y las diferencias inter-especificas en la frecuencia de aleteo apoyan hallazgos anteriores que relacionan inversamente la frecuencia de aleteo con la longitud de las alas; y (4) que el anlisis digital de los sonidos es una nueva herramienta de gran utilidad para el estudio detallado de los sonidos de las alas. Tambin brindamos la primera descripcin de un comportamiento caracterstico que nosotros llamamos 'Cobra', en el cual un individuo aumenta dramticamente la frecuencia de aleteo. Finalmente, hemos incrementado de modo significativo el conocimiento del sonido producido por las plumas primarias externas modificadas y hemos mostrado que las hembras de Archilochus alexandri tambin producen sonidos con las alas, a pesar de que anteriormente se crea que stos eran exclusivos de los picaflores machos. 
40306170|In long-lived species, juvenile survival and the age at which individuals begin the process of recruitment have important consequences for individual fitness and population growth. We investigated how characteristics of fledglings (mass, wing length, and date) influenced the local survival of juveniles and age at first return to the natal breeding colony of two annual cohorts of the Tufted Puffin (
10.2307/1367657| Mid-winter populations of birds at 20 open-grassland sites of varied grazing pressure and cultivation practices in Oklahoma and Texas were examined to evaluate patterns of avian species' abundances and distributions. Most of the 23 non-raptorial bird species observed were winter residents. Of these, only 14 were present on more than 2 of 53 censuses. Except for meadowlarks and the Sprague's Pipit (Anthus spragueii), these species are granivores. Regional distinctions in species composition of 5-latitude-longitude blocks occur along north-south and east-west axes in the south-central United States. A cluster analysis of sites grouped them primarily on the basis of the most abundant bird species. Sites with similar grazing pressures were generally placed into the same cluster. However, sites in Oklahoma classified as moderately grazed were grouped with either heavily or lightly grazed grasslands depending on the predominant avian species. Estimates of bird biomass were highest on northern Oklahoma and southern Texas sites. Biomass was higher on heavily grazed than lightly grazed grasslands in Oklahoma and western Texas. In contrast, moderately grazed grasslands in southern Texas supported significantly more bird biomass than heavily grazed sites. Total granivore biomass was correlated with seed abundance (r = 0.78). Annual changes in bird biomass were generally consistent among sites (and also among species) in central Oklahoma. The year 1976 was a drought year and fewer birds were present during the winter of 1976-1977 than in other winters. However, Savannah Sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) were less numerous and Smith's Longspurs (Calcarius pictus) most abundant during the coldest winter (1978-1979) with unusually high snowfall. The highest winter bird population estimates in southern Texas occurred in a period with record rainfall (1976-1977). 
10.2307/1369565|Body composition and gut morphology of molting male Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) were investigated in central Alberta from termination of breeding activities until fall migration (May-October) in 1989-1990. During this postreproductive period, male Canvasbacks underwent prebasic, down, and partial prealternate molts. Protein, lipid, and mineral dynamics were analyzed to determine if male Canvasbacks relied on endogenous nutrient reserves to meet increased nutritional demands during molt. In addition, mass and length of digestive organs were analyzed to document changes in the digestive tract that could provide endogenous protein (i.e., via muscle tissue catabolism) and/or possibly enhance exogenous nutrient assimilation for molt. Ingesta-free body mass of male Canvasbacks reached its annual minima during remigial molt (x = 973.5 g) and fluctuated primarily in response to storage and catabolism of lipids. Body composition data indicated little reliance on endogenous fat, protein, and mineral to satisfy nutrient requirements for molt. Lipid reserves were not accumulated prior to molt, but instead were metabolized from arrival on molting areas through mid-remigial molt. Premigratory lipogenesis started during mid-remigial growth and occurred simultaneous to elevated molt intensity, indicating that energetic requirements for molt were met exogenously. Despite the relative stability of total body protein during postreproductive molts, there were marked shifts in the distribution of muscle tissue in molting birds. Pectoral muscles atrophied from arrival on molting habitat through mid-remigial molt, concurrent with hypertrophy of leg and some digestive tract tissues. Increased mass of the digestive tract during remigial molt originated principally from growth of the gizzard. The digestive tract returned to its original mass as birds regained the ability to fly and their diet reverted back to foods with lower fiber content. Because postreproductive molts were extended over six months, male Canvasbacks had relatively low daily nutritional demands that could be met by dietary intake.
10.2307/1370306|I studied tropical Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) on Aride Island, Seychelles, between 1997-1999. Productivity in 1998 was 0.58 fledglings/breeding pair, and in 1999 no young fledged. Roseate Terns on Aride concentrated their foraging along the coastline exposed to prevailing winds, with flock size over this area being significantly correlated with amount of food offered to chicks. In 1998, Lesser Noddies (Anous tenuirostris) were present in 91% of the Roseate Tern flocks, but in 1999 occurred in only 32%. During the 1998 successful breeding season, Roseate Terns were associated with dense flocks of Lesser Noddies over predatory fish, whereas during the 1999 failure season most Roseate Tern flocks were either monospecific or mixed with Fairy Terns (Gygis alba), and without predatory fish. The mean flock size of Roseate Terns (82 vs. 6 birds) and the rate of foraging attempts (8.3 vs 2.8 attempts min<sup>-1</sup>) were significantly greater in association with predatory fish. Mullidae (Parupeneus or Mulloidichthys) were the primary prey taken by Roseate Terns, and alternative sources of food were apparently scarce. The high daily variations in the amount of food brought to chicks, intermediate periods of low food delivery, and an apparent seasonal decline in the amount of food brought to the colony suggest that food is unpredictable on a daily and seasonal basis. Absence of predatory fish may explain complete breeding failures and periods of low food delivery, but the importance of other factors is unknown. Information on the ecology and movement patterns of predatory fish around Aride Island is needed to assist the conservation of the Roseate Terns.
1370615| Storks were previously known in Cuba only from the living Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) and two bones of the extinct species Ciconia maltha from Cienfuegos Province. Newly explored Quaternary tar seep deposits in Matanzas Province have yielded fossils of M. americana, the extinct wood stork M. wetmorei, and an unidentified species of Ciconia smaller than C. maltha. These specimens provide the first verifiable fossil record of M. americana anywhere, the first of M. wetmorei outside of Florida and California, and the first instance of these two species occurring sympatrically. /// Las cigeas eran conocidas en Cuba solo por la cayama viviente, Mycteria americana, y por dos huesos de la especie extinta Ciconia maltha, procedentes de la Provincia de Cienfuegos. La exploracin de depsitos cuaternarios de asfalto en la Provincia de Matanzas, aport fsiles de la cigea extinta Mycteria wetmorei, de M. americana, y de una especie no identificada de Ciconia, menor que C. maltha. Estos fsiles suministran el primer registro confiable de M. americana, y el primero de M. wetmorei fuera de Florida y California, junto con la primera evidencia de estas dos especies viviendo en simpatra. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100184|The Swainson's Warbler (
90008533|Estimating and monitoring adult and juvenile survival are vital to understanding population status, informing recovery planning for endangered species, and quantifying the success of management. We used markrecapture models to estimate apparent annual survival of the Puaiohi (
10.2307/1369480|Determining how molt is integrated into the annual cycle, and understanding what natural selection pressures have favored the diversity of molt strategies in birds are important issues in ornithology and zoology in general. To study these issues, most ornithologists historically have used and continue to use many different nomenclatural systems which tie names of molts and plumages (e.g., breeding plumage, summer plumage, adult plumage) to events in the annual cycle, season or age. However, it is circular to study the evolution of molts and plumages in relation to annual cycle events, seasons or age because the definitions of plumages and molts in these systems are defined in terms of these parameters. To study the evolution of molts and plumages it is essential to use a system such as that proposed by Humphrey and Parkes (1959, 1963) to identify homologous molts and plumages that is independent of annual cycle events, seasons and age. This paper discusses how to use correctly the Humphrey-Parkes system and illustrates this by discussing an example of how the Humphrey-Parkes system was applied incorrectly in a series of studies on Passerina buntings. We also document that Phainopeplas, Phainopepla nitens, Yellow-breasted Chats, Icteria virens, Northern Cardinals, Cardinalis cardinalis, and Orange-breasted Buntings, Passerina leclancherii exhibit a previously unknown sequence of molts and plumages that is homologous to that of other recently studied Passerina species, and suggest that this sequence of molts and plumages probably is much more widespread in birds than is currently recognized.
4501008| Numerous investigators have used allometric regression to characterize the relationship between proportional egg composition and egg size, which is a potentially important characterization for assessing maternal investment in reproduction. Herein, we document two important shortcomings of this approach. First, regressing log component mass against log egg mass involves regressing Y on itself, since each component (Y) is necessarily a part of the whole egg (X). This creates correlated errors, which leads to biased estimates of the regression slope. To circumvent this problem, we recommend regressing egg component masses on a relatively inert component like total water mass. Secondly, investigators routinely use ordinary least squares regression to estimate the slope of allometric relationships, which assumes that all error resides in Y. We demonstrate that this assumption is false, but so are the underlying error assumptions of commonly used alternatives such as reduced major axis and major axis regression. Because each egg is unique and determining composition involves destructive sampling, there is no obvious way to assess measurement error in Y versus X. As a solution, we recommend that investigators analyze multiple eggs per clutch whenever possible and fit a reduced major axis based on the among-female component of variability. /// Numerosos investigaciones han usado regresiones alomtricas para caracterizar la relacin entre la proporcin de la composicin del huevo y el tamao del huevo, lo cual representa una caracterizacin potencialmente importante para evaluar la inversin materna en la reproduccin. Aqu documentamos dos limitaciones importantes de este enfoque. Primero, la regresin del logaritmo de los componentes sobre el logaritmo de la masa del huevo representa la regresin de Y sobre s misma, ya que cada componente (Y) es necesariamente una parte del huevo completo (X). Esto genera errores correlacionados, lo cual lleva a estimados sesgados de la pendiente de la regresin. Para evitar este problema, recomendamos hacer una regresin de los componentes de la masa del huevo sobre un componente relativamente inerte, como la masa total de agua. Segundo, los investigadores usan de forma rutinaria regresiones comunes de mnimos cuadrados para estimar la pendiente de las relaciones alomtricas, lo cual supone que todo el error reside en Y. Demostramos que esta suposicin es falsa, al igual que las suposiciones del error subyacente de las alternativas comnmente usadas como la reduccin del eje mayor y la regresin del eje mayor. Debido a que cada huevo es nico y a que la determinacin de la composicin requiere la destruccin de muestras, no existe un modo obvio para determinar el error de medicin de Y versus X. Como solucin, recomendamos que los investigadores analicen mltiples huevos por nidada cuando sea posible y que ajusten un eje mayor reducido basado en el componente de variabilidad entre hembras. 
10.1525/cond.2010.100151|We calculated the home ranges and core areas of 13 adult Rusty Blackbirds (
10.2307/1369987|We studied the foraging ecology of a population of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) breeding in New York State over a period of 5 years. While feeding nestlings, adult Tree Swallows tended to spend most of their time within sight of their nest box and less than 12 m above the ground. Major insect taxa captured include Diptera, Hemiptera, and Odonata, ranging in length from mainly 0-10 mm, with some individuals up to 60 mm. The sex of the parent delivering the food had no significant effect on diet composition. Selection for or against food categories was determined by comparing the proportion of insects of different types in the diet of Tree Swallows to the proportions available in the air column. Tree Swallows showed consistent selection for insects larger than 3 mm and against smaller insects, especially Diptera in the suborder Nematocera. Only minor differences in diet were observed among years, and the effects of the abundance of food available were generally small. The patterns of selectivity found in this population were consistent with those found in previous studies on this species carried out in other locations, and these patterns are likely the result of differences in the profitability or visibility of prey types.
10.2307/1368943|Numbers of Broad-tailed Hummingbirds (Selasphorous platycercus) captured each summer from 1979-1989 at the Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory were quite variable, ranging from 115 (1981) to 348 (1989), with new birds usually outnumbering returning (previously banded) birds. Capture numbers were negatively correlated with the abundance of four species of flowers they visited, Erythronium grandiflorum, Delphinium nelsonii, Ipomopsis aggregata and Delphinium barbeyi; flower numbers were also highly variable during the study period. Since most of the captures were at feeders, these data suggest that in years with high floral abundance feeders are less attractive, while in years with low floral abundance hummingbirds with nests or territories at greater distances increase their use of the feeders. This interpretation is supported by seasonal variation in use of feeders, which is highest during the beginning and end of the season when floral abundance is lowest. Estimates of hummingbird density based on activity at feeders may thus be affected by the availability of floral food resources.
10.1525/cond.2013.120143|Understanding the evolution of cooperative breeding systems remains a central issue in evolutionary biology. In this context, molecular tools have contributed greatly toward understanding kinship patterns within groups and resolving long-standing issues regarding mating systems and parentage. We used such molecular tools to examine patterns of kinship in the Campo Flicker (
10.2307/1369359|We censused shorebirds along 4 km of southern California rocky shoreline in 1969-1973 when kelp was absent, and in 1985-1986 after kelp had been restored. Nonparametric regression was combined with a multi-level bootstrap to show that the recent counts were substantially higher than the previous years for those wintering species most specifically associated with rocky shorelines. Black and Ruddy Turnstones, two species frequently seen feeding on algal windthrow in 1984-1986, displayed the most dramatic increases. Kelp restoration has apparently enhanced wintering shorebird numbers along the Palos Verdes Peninsula of California.
10.2307/1368143|This paper examines the contacts of hybridizing taxa and potentially interacting congeners on the southern portion of the Great Plains. Environmental differences between the northern and southern (Oklahoma, Texas) Great Plains include increasing evaporation southward, extensive scarp woodlands, mesquite savanna, and discontinuous riparian timber in the south. Four of the five pairs of taxa that hybridize prominently on the northern plains have disjunct ranges south of the Red River. Only the Golden-fronted (Melanerpes aurifrons) and Red-bellied (M. carolinus) woodpeckers, and the forms of the Tufted Titmouse (Parus bicolor) and Northern Oriole (Icterus galbula) are known to interbreed in Texas. Sympatry of Western (Otus kennicottii) and Eastern (O. asio) screech-owls on the western Edwards Plateau has been reported, but interbreeding has not been documented there. Reported displacement of eastern populations of the Tufted Titmouse by the western (black-crested) form appears unfounded. Both upland and riparian timber of the southern and eastern Edwards Plateau provide a corridor for interchange of eastern and western avifaunal elements that is more extensive than that in either the discontinuous woodlands in north-central Texas or the Niobrara drainage in Nebraska. In the northern plains congeners meet along ribbons of streamcourse timber that are isolated from one another by intervening grasslands. In the southern Great Plains the western taxa of hybridizing or potentially interacting pairs occupy diverse woodlands. Many of their eastern counterparts have restricted access across prairies and meet their congeners on a broad front.
4096546| Although macaws are arguably the most widely recognized species of bird from Neotropical rainforests, little is known of their basic biology or demography in the wild. In Ecuador, as in other Neotropical countries, it is suspected that several species of macaw are declining in response to human activity and habitat alteration but there is little hard data supporting this supposition. In this paper, we present one full year of data on macaw populations from a relatively pristine site in the Ecuadorian Amazon, and compare this site to two other sites with intermediate and relatively high levels of human activity. At Tiputini Biodiversity Station, a pristine terra-firme forest, macaws were more common in the dry season than in the wet season. This pattern is the opposite of that recently reported for seasonally inundated forests in Peru, suggesting that macaws may make large-scale, seasonal movements across habitat types. We employed the same sampling methodology for shorter periods of time at Sacha Lodge, characterized by intermediate levels of human activity, and at Jatun Sacha Biological Station, characterized by relatively high levels of human activity and habitat degradation. We recorded an intermediate number of macaws at Sacha Lodge, and the lowest densities at Jatun Sacha. Three groups of indicator taxa sampled at all three sites showed a similar pattern. These data provide a baseline for future demographic studies of macaws in the Ecuadorian Amazon and lend tentative support to the idea that macaw population declines may be linked to human activity and habitat alteration. /// A pesar de que los guacamayos son en principio el grupo de especies de aves ms conspicuo de los bosques neotropicales, muy poco se sabe sobre su biologa bsica y demografa en estado silvestre. En Ecuador, como en otros pases neotropicales, se sospecha que algunas especies de guacamayos estn desapareciendo en respuesta a la actividad humana y a la alteracin del hbitat, aunque hay muy poca informacin que sustente esta suposicin. En este trabajo, presentamos informacin sobre la demografa de los guacamayos obtenida durante un perodo de un ao en un lugar relativamente prstino de la amazona ecuatoriana, y lo comparamos con dos lugares que poseen niveles intermedios y altos de alteracin humana. En la Estacin de Biodiversidad Tiputini, un lugar con bosques de tierra firme en estado relativamente prstino, los guacamayos fueron ms comunes en la temporada seca que en la temporada lluviosa. Este patrn es opuesto a lo reportado en bosques estacionalmente inundados en Per, sugiriendo que los guacamayos podran realizar desplazamientos estacionales a gran escala a travs de diferentes tipos de hbitat. Nosotros empleamos la misma metodologa de muestreo durante perodos ms cortos de tiempo en Sacha Lodge, un lugar caracterizado por un nivel intermedio de impacto humano, y en la Estacin Biolgica Jatun Sacha, caracterizada por niveles de impacto humano y alteracin de hbitat relativamente altos. Registramos un nmero intermedio de guacamayos en Sacha Lodge y densidades bajas en la Estacin Biolgica Jatun Sacha. Otros tres grupos de indicadores taxonmicos muestreados en los tres lugares visitados mostraron un patrn similar. Esta informacin provee una lnea de base para futuros estudios demogrficos de los guacamayos en la amazona ecuatoriana y respalda de modo tentativo la idea de que la disminucin de las poblaciones de guacamayos podra estar relacionada con la actividad humana y la alteracin del hbitat. 
10.2307/1367254|Examination of fresh eggs from 23 species of procellariiform birds shows that the relative amounts of albumen and yolk in the egg depend upon egg size, large eggs having proportionately more albumen and less yolk than smaller ones. Similar allometric relationships also exist within two species, Diomedea immutabilis and Puffinus griseus. The proportions of these components in petrel eggs differ from those in the eggs of either precocial or altricial birds in general. The yolk in petrel eggs lighter than 25 g weighs more than that in eggs of similar size produced by typical precocial birds. Shell weight is a relatively constant percentage of egg weight, except for fulmars, which nest among rocks and on ledges: their eggs have heavier and thicker shells than other petrel eggs of similar size.
10.2307/1367334|Eggs of 10 species of shorebirds (Charadriidae, Scolopacidae, Phalaropodinae) collected at Churchill, Manitoba, were measured and artificially incubated. Neonates were weighed within 6 h of hatching. This paper reports variation in egg size and neonate mass among clutches, and the relationship between egg dimensions and neonate mass. Coefficients of variation were 4 to 9% for egg volume and 6 to 15% for neonate mass. In most species, a significant proportion (48-84%) of the variance in egg volume could be attributed to differences between clutches. Neonate mass was significantly related to egg size in six of nine species.
10.2307/1369030|Interspecific competition for nest sites between tits (Parus spp.) and Collared Flycatchers (Ficedula albicollis) was responsible for the death of 23 flycatchers during one breeding season. Eighteen (78%) of the killed flycatchers were males, and nineteen (83%) of the kills took place in nest boxes occupied by Great Tits (Parus major), and two (9%) in boxes occupied by Blue Tits (P. caeruleus). The number of casualties in different plots increased with increasing proportion of nest boxes occupied by tits (r = 0.76), and decreased with increasing density of nest boxes (r = -0.43). The number of casualties equalled up to 17% of all flycatcher individuals breeding in a given plot, indicating that interspecific competition for nest sites may constitute a significant source of adult mortality in the Collared Flycatcher population studied.
1370559| House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) remove eggs from the nests of other birds, including conspecifics and heterospecifics and both cup and cavity nests. Egg removal by males before females arrive increases the number of empty nests in and around a male House Wren's territory, and females might use this trait in mate choice. We manipulated the presence of empty nests in House Wren territories prior to female settlement by adding artificial nests with or without plastic eggs. We used the timing of female settlement as an index of mate preference. Our manipulation had no effect on the timing of female settlement or on variables related to maternal investment such as clutch size, egg volume, or provisioning effort. Differential investment in offspring was based on the timing of a reproductive attempt, which was unrelated to the experimental manipulation. /// Troglodytes aedon remueve los huevos de nidos de otras aves, incluyendo nidos coespecficos y heteroespecficos, y nidos de copa y en cavidades. La remocin de los huevos por el macho antes de la Ilegada de la hembra aumenta el nmero de nidos vacos dentro y alrededor del territorio del macho, y es posible que las hembras utilicen este caracter en la eleccin de pareja. Manipulamos la presencia de nidos vacos en territorios de T. aedon adicionando nidos artificiales con y sin huevos de plstico antes del asentamiento de las hembras. Utilizamos el momento de asentamiento de la hembra como un ndice de preferencia de pareja. Nuestra manipulacin no tuvo un efecto sobre el momento de asentamiento de la hembra o sobre variables relacionadas con la inversin materna como tamao de la nidada, volumen del huevo o esfuerzo de aprovisionamiento. Las diferencias en la inversin en la progenie se relacionaron con el momento en que ocurre un intento reproductivo el cual no se relacion con la manipulacin experimental. 
10.2307/1368565|Laboratory studies of torpor in small endotherms suggest that body temperature is lowered periodically only when the animal is energetically stressed. Almost no data exist on the use and importance of torpor outside laboratory situations. We have monitored the daily energy state of hummingbirds in the field. A rare observation of a torpid individual whose energy state and ecological situation were well-documented showed that migrant hummingbirds may use torpor when they are very fat and not presently energetically stressed. In this case, torpor may be a mechanism to conserve the energy stored for later use on migration.
10.2307/1367319|This study considers the temporal and spatial distribution of Steller's Eiders (Polysticta stelleri) during molt along the north side of the Alaska Peninsula from Port Heiden to Bechevin Bay. Subadult eiders molted primarily at Nelson Lagoon, adult males at Nelson Lagoon and Izembek Bay, and adult females primarily at Izembek Bay. Only a few eiders used Bechevin Bay, Seal Islands, and Port Heiden. Although the flightless period overlapped among different age and sex classes, subadults were flightless first, then adult males, and last, adult females. Eiders maintained spatial and temporal separation during the flightless period, thereby reducing competition for food resources. Eiders at Nelson Lagoon were observed feeding only by head-dipping during the pre-flightless period in 1979, a significant change from 1977 when they fed both by diving and dipping. During both 1977 and 1979 eiders foraged for approximately equal amounts of time during each stage of molt. Foods consisted primarily of bivalve mollusks and amphipods. These foods were consumed in different proportions before and after the wing-feather molt, with mussels being most important when eiders were growing remiges. Comparisons between the amount of energy in blue mussels (Mytilus edulis), clams (Macoma balthica), and gammarid amphipods showed that mussels yield the most energy per gram of whole wet weight. Apparently Steller's Eiders have adjusted to the increased energy demands of molt by eating invertebrates with high caloric content, rather than by increasing the amount of time feeding.
1370549| The federal government requires those who destroy wetlands to preserve, restore, or create new ones with the goal of no net loss of wetlands. In the summer of 2000, we tested whether forested wetlands created an average of 8 years earlier had developed avian communities similar to natural wetlands of the same age in southeastern Virginia. We compared six created wetlands to five natural (reference) wetlands that had undergone ecological succession after clearcutting. We also created a trajectory of expected avian community development by comparing 20 reference wetlands, logged 1-25 years earlier, to mature forested wetlands that had not been logged for 50 years or more. Created wetlands had significantly lower avian richness and diversity, and a different community composition, than reference wetlands. These differences were likely due to the fact that created wetlands supported low numbers of the expected passerine species. In addition, natural wetlands supported species of higher conservation concern, as measured by Neotropical migratory status, trophic level, habitat specificity, and wetland dependency. The trajectory of avian community development indicated that the created wetlands were developmentally behind reference wetlands or were following a different developmental trajectory altogether. We hypothesize that the differences between created and reference forested wetlands were due to unnatural patterns of hydrology or retarded vegetation development on created wetlands. It should not be assumed that created forested wetlands can provide full ecosystem replacement for natural forested wetlands. /// El gobierno federal requiere que tras destruir humedales, aquellos que lo hacen preserven, restauren o creen nuevos humedales con el objetivo de que no haya una prdida neta de stos. En el verano de 2000, probamos si los humedales arbolados creados en promedio 8 aos atrs haban desarrollado comunidades de aves similares a las de humedales naturales de la misma edad en Virginia suroriental. Comparamos seis humedales artificiales con cinco naturales (de referencia) que haban sufrido sucesin ecolgica luego de talas rasas. Tambin creamos una trayectoria esperada del desarrollo de las comunidades de aves comparando 20 humedales de referencia donde se tal entre 1 y 25 aos atrs, con humedales arbolados maduros que no haban sufrido talas por 50 aos o ms. Las comunidades de aves de los humedales artificiales presentaron una riqueza y diversidad significativamente menor y una composicin diferente de las de los humedales de referencia. Estas diferencias probablemente se debieron al hecho de que los humedales creados presentaron un nmero de especies de paserinos menor que el esperado. Adicionalmente, los humedales naturales albergaron especies de mayor importancia para conservacin, medida en trminos de estatus migratorio neotropical, nivel trfico, especificidad de hbitat y dependencia de humedales. La trayectoria de desarrollo de las comunidades de aves indic que los humedales artificiales se encontraban retrasados en su desarrollo con respecto a los naturales, o que estaban siguiendo trayectorias completamente diferentes. Hipotetizamos que las diferencias encontradas se debieron a patrones hidrolgicos no naturales o a retrasos en el desarrollo de la vegetacin en los humedales artificiales. No debera suponerse que los humedales arbolados creados representan un reemplazo completo del ecosistema natural. 
10.2307/1369911| The variation in body temperature over 24 hr was measured by implanting temperature measuring radio transmitters in the abdominal cavity of six captive Griffon Vultures (Gyps fulvus). Body temperature was measured when the birds were under three different feeding regimes: within 24 hr of feeding (while digesting), 2-3 days after feeding (post-absorptive state), and 9.5-10.5 days after feeding (food deprived). For all birds, nocturnal body temperature was significantly lower than diurnal body temperature. The decline in body temperature at night was significantly greater in food deprived birds, which at 10.5 days post-feeding had dropped by 4-6C. We suggest that this is an adaptation to reduce energy requirements of Griffon Vultures during periods of food shortage. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110107|Populations of many shrubland bird species are declining in the eastern United States. Efforts to restore shrubland and early-successional forest may help to ameliorate these declines. However, uncertainty remains about how the size and shape of habitat patches and the surrounding habitat matrix affect patch occupancy by shrubland passerines. Our objectives were to determine if shrubland birds avoid small or irregularly shaped habitat patches and to identify minimum area requirements for area-sensitive species. Additionally, we sought to determine if the proportion of mature forest cover in the landscape influences patch occupancy. We surveyed 35 individual habitat patches in 2007 and 43 in 2008 for the presence of eight shrubland birds. Then, we modeled the probability of five of these species occupying an individual patch relative to patch area, patch shape, and percent forest cover within 1 km of the patch. We documented evidence of area sensitivity for the Yellow-breasted Chat (
10.2307/1370263|To evaluate the abundance of Tricolored Blackbirds (Agelaius tricolor), the schedule of breeding throughout the Central Valley of California was determined in four years (1992-1994, 1997). By the end of April in 1994, all observed Tricolored Blackbirds were in the immediate vicinity of active breeding colonies. Only one colony of 600 birds was established in the Sacramento Valley north of Sacramento County. During late May and early June, more than 170,000 individuals settled in the Sacramento Valley, while attendance at colonies in the San Joaquin Valley was declining. Most breeding birds colonizing the Sacramento Valley in May and June probably already had completed nesting efforts elsewhere. This suggests that Tricolored Blackbirds are itinerant breeders. Surveys, conducted after initial settlement and before substantial movements from one breeding area to another occur, have the potential to estimate overall numbers. Inclusion of late season breeding colonies in estimates of overall abundance would result in substantial overestimates of the global population. Local and regional declines in the number of breeding Tricolored Blackbirds of an order of magnitude or more resemble population collapses but probably are attributable to itinerant breeding.
4151061| We found helpers at eight of nine nests of Yellow-rumped Marshbirds (Pseudoleistes guirahuro) from northeastern Argentina and Paraguay. From one to four helpers were observed during the incubation and nestling periods, but during nest building we saw solitary pairs. The helpers, of unknown sex and age, provisioned food to the chicks and defended the nest against several raptors. The Yellow-rumped Marshbird had a similar breeding system to its congener the Brown-and-yellow Marshbird (P. virescens) except that the former did not nest in colonies. According to a recent molecular phylogeny both Pseudoleistes marshbirds plus the Saffron-cowled Blackbird (Xanthopsar flavus) form a well-defined clade. All three of these species have helpers. This result suggests that cooperative breeding in the Icteridae has a phy-logenetic component. /// Encontramos ayudantes en ocho de nueye nidos de Pseudoleistes guirahuro presentes encontrados en el noreste de Argentina y en Paraguay. Los ayudantes, de uno a cuatro, fueron observados en nidos durante los perodos de incubacin y con pichones, pero durante la construccin del nido vimos parejas solitarias. Los ayudantes, de sexo y edad desconocidos, aportaron alimento a los pichones y defendieron el nido contra diversas ayes rapaces. Pseudoleistes guirahuro tiene un sistema de cra social similar al de so congnere P. virescens, aunque no nidific en cobnias. Segn la reciente filogenia molecular de la familia los dos Pseudoleistes ms Xanthopsarflavus forman un clado definido, y estas tres especies tienen ayudantes. Este resultado sugiere que la presencia del sistema de cra cooperativa tiene un componente filogenetico entre los ictridos. 
10.2307/1368808|Studies using stable-isotope analysis to infer diet require a knowledge of how stable-isotope ratios in consumer tissues are related to dietary values. We determined 
4151060| The phylogenetic affinities of the Redbellied Grackle (Hypopyrrhus pyrohypogaster), a Colombian endemic and the only member of this genus, are enigmatic. Based on phylogenetic analyses of sequences from the cytochrome b and ND2 mitochondrial genes, we present a first hypothesis on the systematic position of Hypopyrrhus. In so doing, we complete the sampling at the genus level for a published phylogeny of New World blackbirds (Johnson and Lanyon 1999). Hypopyrrhus belongs in a clade composed of mostly South American species within the grackles and allies assemblage, one of the five main lineages in the Icteridae. Within this lineage, Hypopyrrhus is consistently placed in a clade with Gymnomystax mexicanus and Lampropsar tanagrinus, but parsimony and maximum-likelihood reconstructions do not agree on which of these species is its sister taxon. Vocal and morphological data suggest that Hypopyrrhus and Gymnomystax are likely sister taxa. The addition of Hypopyrrhus does not cause major topological changes to Johnson and Lanyon's (1999) phylogeny of the grackles and allies; thus, the conclusions of evolutionary studies that used this phylogeny as a baseline remain largely unaltered. /// Las afinidades filogenticas de Hypopyrrhus pyrohypogaster, el nico miembro de este gnero endmico de Colombia, son enigmticas. En este estudio establecemos la posicin sistemtica de Hypopyrrhus con base en anlisis filogenticos de secuencias de los genes mitocondriales citocromo b y ND2. Adems, completamos el muestreo a nivel genrico para una filogenia del grupo publicada por Johnson y Lanyon (1999). Hypopyrrhus pertenece a un clado compuesto principalmente por especies suramericanas dentro del grupo de los changos y chamones, uno de los cinco clados principales de los Icteridae. Dentro de este grupo, Hypopyrrhus se ubica consistentemente en un clado junto con Gymnomystax mexicanus y Lampropsar tanagrinus, pero las reconstrucciones de parsimonia y mxima verosimilitud se contradicen en cuanto a cudl de estas especies es su taxn hermano. Datos de vocalizaciones y morfologa sugieren que Hypopyrrhus y Gymnomystax son probablemente gneros hermanos. La incorporacin de Hypopyrrhus a la filogenia de Johnson y Lanyon (1989) no caus cambios topolgicos importantes, por lo que las conclusiones de los estudios evolutivos que usaron esta filogenia como base no fueron alteradas. 
3247794| The measurement of the abundance of naturally occurring deuterium (D) in feathers grown in North America can provide geographical information on location where the feather was grown. Previously, we used this technique to link populations of Bicknell's Thrush (Catharus bicknelli) breeding in northeastern North America (to 46N) with wintering grounds in the Dominican Republic. That study indicated the presence of a subpopulation of wintering birds with more depleted feather D values than those measured on their known breeding grounds. This suggested either a more northerly or a higher altitude breeding source population than previously measured. We located two populations of Bicknell's Thrush in Quebec, Canada, at Mine Madeleine (49N) and at Mont Gosford (45N). The Mine Madeleine birds had feather D values overlapping those of the unidentified subpopulation found wintering in the Dominican Republic. At Mont Gosford, hatch-year birds were more depleted in their feather D values than after-second-year birds suggesting their more northerly origins and capture during the early fall migration period. Our study demonstrates how the stable-isotope approach can be used to document connectivity between breeding and wintering populations of migratory birds. /// La medicin de la abundancia de deuterio en estado natural (D) en las plumas formadas en Amrica del Norte puede brindar informacin geogrfica sobre la localizacin en donde se form la pluma. Anteriormente usamos esta tcnica para relacionar las poblaciones de Catharus bicknelli que se reproducen en el noreste de Amrica del Norte (hasta 46N) con las reas de invernada en Repblica Dominicana. Ese estudio indic la presencia de una subpoblacin de aves invernantes con valores de D en las plumas por debajo de los valores medidos de los sitios conocidos de cra. Esto sugiri la presencia de una poblacin reproductiva proveedora de individuos localizada ms al norte o a mayor elevacin que las registradas anteriormente. Localizamos dos poblaciones de C. bicknelli en Qubec, Canad, una en Mine Madeleine (49N) y otra en Mont Gosford (45N). Las aves de Mine Madeleine tuvieron valores de D en las plumas que se superpusieron con aquellos de la subpoblacin no identificada encontrada invernando en Repblica Dominicana. En Mont Gosford, las aves del primer ao de edad presentaron valores ms bajos de D en las plumas que aquellos encontrados en aves del segundo ao de edad o mayores, sugiriendo un origen ms boreal y que fueron capturadas durante el inicio del perodo de migracin otoal. Nuestro estudio demuestra como el mtodo de istopos estables puede ser usado para documentar conectividad entre poblaciones reproductivas e invernales de aves migratorias. 
10.2307/1370080|It has been hypothesized that clutch size in bird species occurring in arid habitats is influenced by annual rainfall. We propose an alternative hypothesis that avian clutch size in resident species should be more strongly associated with rainfall in the short-term (during egg-formation) than during the long-term (cumulative across the season). We tested this hypothesis with museum egg-sets for California Gnatcatcher (Polioptila californica) nests taken in southern California combined with rainfall data from the geographically closest weather station to nest collection site. Clutch size was independent of laying date. Seasonal rainfall was not a good predictor of clutch size; rainfall during egg formation was a better predictor. Using isotonic regression, we detected a strong positive trend in the association between clutch size and cumulative rainfall, with cumulative rainfall across 1 month prior to the estimated month of clutch completion having the strongest positive association. These data support the hypothesis that smaller clutches result from more immediate conditions, not from the wet-year/dry-year dichotomy.
1370522| We analyzed return rates of high-altitude-breeding Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) in relation to five components of their previous season's reproductive effort: number of fledglings produced, double brooding, number of nesting attempts (first nests plus renests), total number of eggs laid, and fledging date. No relationship of return rate to reproductive effort occurred except in the case of fledging date. Fledging dates spanned a 2-month period from mid-June to mid-August. Returns of females to the study area held steady no matter when their chicks fledged in the previous breeding season, but male return rates increased significantly when their chicks fledged after 20 July. Coincident with that time frame, they entered molt and often withdrew parental care. We hypothesized that males in this montane environment, where thermoregulatory costs are high, traded off reproductive effort (parental care) with survival (return rates). This fits well with models of life-history evolution; however, the corresponding prediction that return rates of females with late-season broods should decrease due to their assumption of greater parental care was not supported. Apparently, the cost of reproduction shifted to the young: late-season nestlings grew more slowly, fledged at a smaller mass, and exhibited a fourfold increase in brood reductions. Their recruitment as breeders in the following season was also greatly reduced. Thus, a cost of reproduction was expressed in two forms, one as changes in survival rates of breeding males, the other as changes in quality of offspring. /// Analizamos las tasas de retorno en las poblaciones reproductivas de alta montaa de Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha con relacin a cinco componentes de su esfuerzo reproductivo de la estacin anterior: nmero de volantones producidos, eventos de dobles nidadas, nmero de intentos de nidificacin (primer nido ms re-nidificaciones), nmero total de huevos puestos y fecha de emplumamiento. No encontramos una relacin entre la tasa de retorno y el esfuerzo reproductivo, excepto en el caso de la fecha de emplumamiento. Las fechas de emplumamiento se extendieron por un perodo de dos meses, desde mediados de junio hasta mediados de agosto. El regreso de las hembras al rea de estudio se mantuvo constante, sin importar cundo los pichones abandonaron el nido en la estacin reproductiva anterior, pero las tasas de retorno de los machos incrementaron significativamente cuando sus pichones dejaron el nido luego del 20 de julio. En coincidencia con este momento, los machos comenzaron la muda y frecuentemente dejaron de cuidar a de los pichones. Hipotetizamos que los machos en este ambiente de montaa, donde los costos de termorregulacin son altos, canjearon esfuerzo reproductivo (cuidado parental) por supervivencia (tasas de retorno). Esto se ajusta adecuadamente con los modelos de evolucin de historias de vida. Sin embargo, la prediccin correspondiente de que las tasas de retorno de las hembras con nidadas tardas deberan disminuir debido a la suposicin de que brindaran mayor cuidado parental, no fue respaldada. Aparentemente, el costo reproductivo sera trasladado a las cras: los pichones de finales de la estacin crecieron ms despacio, dejaron el nido con menor masa corporal y exhibieron un incremento de cuatro rdenes de magnitud en la reduccin de la nidada. Su reclutamiento como individuos reproductivos en la siguiente estacin tambin se redujo enormemente. De este modo, el costo reproductivo fue expresado de dos formas, una como cambios en las tasas de supervivencia de los machos reproductivos y la otra como cambios en la calidad de la progenie. 
4123210| Using satellite telemetry, we studied the postbreeding movements of Great (Fregata minor) and Magnificent Frigatebirds (F. magnificens) at two breeding colonies in the Indian and Atlantic Oceans. After breeding failure, 67% of the birds with satellite transmitters remained on the breeding colonies and continued to perform foraging trips similar to those undertaken while breeding. Two Magnificent Frigatebirds that bred at a colony off the coast of French Guiana moved west along the coast of South America, and one of the two reached Trinidad 1400 km away. One Great Frigatebird moved 4400 km from Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel to the Maldive Islands. It roosted there for at least four months, making foraging trips of up to 240 km, mainly to an area known for its high concentration of tuna. These results show that frigatebirds are able to make rapid and directed long-distance dispersal movements to other colonies or roosting sites, although the majority of birds remain based on breeding colonies. /// Estudiamos los movimientos de Fregata minor y F. magnificens en dos colonias reproductivas de los Ocanos ndico y Atlntico usando telemetra satelital. Luego del fracaso reproductivo, el 67% de las fragatas con transmisores satelitales permanecieron en las colonias reproductivas y siguieron realizando viajes de forrajeo similares a los que realizaron mientras estaban criando. Dos individuos de F. magnificens que criaron en una colonia mar adentro de la costa de la Guayana Francesa se desplazaron hacia el oeste a lo largo de la costa de Amrica del Sur y uno de los dos lleg hasta Trinidad, a unos 1400 km de distancia. Un individuo de F. minor se desplaz 4400 km desde la Isla Europa en el Canal de Mozambique a las Islas Maldivas, y permaneci all por lo menos por cuatro meses, realizando viajes de forrajeo de hasta 240 km, principalmente a un rea conocida por su alta concentracin de atn. Estos resultados muestran que las fragatas son capaces de dispersarse mediante movimientos de largo alcance rpidos y dirigidos hacia otras colonias o hacia dormideros, aunque la mayora de las aves permanecieron en las colonias reproductivas. 
1369830| The degree of hatching synchrony in clutches of passerine birds frequently varies among species and among individuals of the same species. Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain why some eggs hatch several days after others in a clutch. We tested one of these hypotheses, the energetic-constraints hypothesis, which proposes that females in poor physical condition postpone initiating incubation and hatch their clutches synchronously, whereas females in good condition begin incubation early and hatch their clutches asynchronously. We tested the hypothesis using the House Wren (Troglodytes aedon) because recent studies have found little difference in productivity between synchronously and asynchronously hatching clutches in this species, suggesting that the degree of hatching synchrony varies for reasons unrelated to nestling growth and survival. We used logistic regression to test the dependence of the degree of hatching synchrony on each of two measures of female condition. We found no relationship between female condition and degree of hatching synchrony. These results and two other lines of evidence are inconsistent with the energetic-constraints hypothesis as an explanation for variation in degree of hatching synchrony in this House Wren population. /// Con frecuencia, el grado de sincrona en la eclosin de nidadas de aves paserinas vara entre especies y entre individuos de la misma especie. Se han propuesto muchas hiptesis para explicar por qu algunos huevos eclosionan varios das despus que otros en una misma nidada. Pusimos a prueba una de esas hiptesis, la de las limitaciones energticas, que propone que hembras en mala condicin fsica postponen el inicio de la incubacin y sus nidadas eclosionan sincrnicamente, mientras que aquellas en buena condicin inician la incubacin temprano y sus nidadas eclosionan asincrnicamente. Pusimos a prueba la hiptesis usando a Troglodytes aedon, pues estudios recientes en esta especie han encontrado pocas diferencias en productividad entre nidadas de eclosin sincrnica y asincrnica, lo que sugiere que el grado de sincrona en la eclosin vara por motivos no relacionados con el crecimiento y supervivencia de los pichones. Utilizamos regresin logstica para evaluar el grado de dependencia de la sincrona de eclosin en dos medidas de condicin fsica de las hembras. No encontramos ninguna relacin entre la condicin de las hembras y el grado de sincrona en la eclosin. Estos resultados y otras dos lneas de evidencia son inconsistentes con la hiptesis de las limitaciones energticas como una explicacin para la variacin en el grado de sincrona de eclosin en esta poblacin de T. aedon. 
10.2307/1367665| I determined the fates of 259 eggs laid by 130 pairs of banded Adelie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) at Cape Bird, Antarctica (771310S, 1662830E). Failure of penguins to return from feeding at sea in time to relieve their mates at the nest resulted in the desertion of 48 eggs (47.5% of all egg losses) and the starvation of 29 chicks (35.4% of all chick losses). Eggs were more likely to be deserted if they belonged to parents that had bred either very early or very late. Most eggs were deserted when females did not return in time to relieve their mates from the First Incubation Spell, so that the risk of desertion became appreciable only after the eggs were 16 days old. Starvation was especially likely when chicks were 6-8 days old, largely because males did not return to relieve the females, particularly from the Second Incubation Spell. Pairs that successfully completed nest relief regulated the total duration of the First and Second Incubation Spells, keeping it slightly less than the duration of the incubation period. 
10.2307/1367496| The microclimate at the summer roosts of Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis) was investigated as a factor contributing to the species' narrow range of habitat. Habitat features surrounding the roosts were quantified; a dense canopy above the roost, and north-facing slopes were characteristic of all sites. The combined physical features created a microclimate that was 1 to 6C cooler than that of more open areas. The owls showed signs of heat stress when temperatures reached and exceeded 27 to 31C. The microclimate at summer roosts was effective in reducing the extent to which the owls used gular flutter. Winter roosts differed markedly from summer roosts, providing additional evidence supporting the importance of summer roosts to Spotted Owls. The owls' apparent intolerance to high temperatures was, at least in part, related to their having plumage as thick as that of boreal-zone owls. Such plumage appears to be an adaptation for enduring periods of winter stress. Selecting cool summer roosts may be a behavioral adaptation to compensate for the owls' observed inefficiency in dissipating body heat. 
10.2307/1368272|An examination of feather replacement and plumage wear in study skins of Aimophila cassinii and A. aestivalis showed a sequence of molts and plumages for both as follows: Juvenal body plumage is replaced soon after fledging by a partial molt that produces plumage of adult-like body feathers combined with juvenal remiges, rectrices and greater primary and secondary coverts. This plumage has a spotted breast pattern intermediate between the streaked juvenal and spotless adult patterns, and is completely replaced in the bird's first autumn by a molt of all body, wing and tail feathers. A prolonged body molt of low intensity lasts through the spring-autumn breeding season, replacing feathers in all areas of the body. During autumn, adults have a complete molt coinciding with the second molt of the young birds. The replacement of all pennaceous body plumage twice within a bird's first six months of age, and a molt of body feathers in adults throughout the breeding season have not been reported before for a North American passerine, nor was this pattern described in an earlier study of the molt of these species. It is suggested that these partial molts renew plumage that otherwise would become severely worn in the birds' abrasive habitats.
10.2307/1368358|Singing organization during aggressive supplanting interactions was compared among color-banded male Yellow-rumped Caciques (Cacicus cela vitellinus) at one breeding colony in Panama. All male colony members shared seven song types, which, when ranked from most to least frequent, occurred in similar relative abundances in their repertoires. Males had similar patterns of song sequencing, which were consistent across 2 years. During countersinging, caciques tended to follow other males' songs with the same type. Song bouts of birds singing in the presence of other singing males contained different proportions of song types, were more diverse, and were less repetitive than those of males singing solo. Social interactions among males and behavioral associations of cacique song types were important factors in determining these patterns of singing organization. The possible functions of these patterns are discussed.
10.2307/1369244|In altricial birds, conspecific brood parasitism (CBP) is disproportionately common in species that nest in colonies. We investigated the frequency of CBP in a colonial icterid, the Yellow-headed Blackbird (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus). Using two criteria for detecting parasitism, we found no cases of CBP in a sample of 69 nests monitored for 522 nest-days. To make sense of this finding, we consider why specific forms of CBP may be lacking in this species. Egg removal experiments demonstrated that Yellow-headed Blackbirds are determinate layers, so a nesting female that also laid eggs parasitically would either suffer a reduced clutch size in her own nest or suffer a delay in initiating her own clutch. Neither territories, nor nest-sites, are limiting for female Yellow-headed Blackbirds, so parasitism by floater females is not expected. Although the destruction of clutches during laying was common during the study, we failed to see parasitism associated with this nest loss. Current information suggests that nest loss may not play an important role in promoting conspecific parasitism in most species.
10.2307/1370190|I compared breeding success and causes of nesting failure for Least Terns Sterna antillarum nesting in 11 colonies ranging from 2 to 606 nests in Connecticut, USA. Although the percentage of nests lost due to predation decreased with increasing colony size, the relationship between colony size and the impact of predators varied with the type of predator. A significant positive correlation was observed between colony size and nest loss due to Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax). In contrast, a significant negative correlation was observed between colony size and nest loss due to small mammals, Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus), and American Crows (Corvus brachyrhnchos). Thus, colonies of approximately 150 nests appear to be large enough for low impacts by small mammals, gulls, and crows, but small enough to be relatively unattractive to Black-crowned Night-Herons. Nest losses and chick mortality were significantly higher during 1988, mainly the result of increased levels of Black-crowned Night-Heron predation on large colonies. Overall, both hatching and fledging success of Least Terns did not increase with increasing colony size, although all colonies with fewer than 10 nests failed completely. Hatching and fledging success did not correlate with increasing nesting synchrony or increasing nest density during either year. However, nesting synchrony showed a significant negative correlation with both hatching success during both years and fledging success during 1988. Thus, less synchronous colonies showed a tendency to be more successful.
10.2307/1370280|We tracked four male Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) from the beginning of their winter migration for periods ranging from three to six weeks. Upon leaving the colony at Punta Tombo, Argentina where they had bred and molted, all four birds traveled northeast along the coast at speeds consistent with sighting and band-return data which suggest a round-trip winter migration in this species of up to several thousand kilometers. Three of the birds followed a similar route, moved at approximately the same rate, and were still moving northeastward at a distance of over 800 km from the colony when signals ceased. The fourth bird departed from the northeast route at approximately 300 km into its trip and remained in a large bay for at least 29 days, when the last signal was received. Initially, the birds traveled rapidly and made few deep dives. Later, their rate of travel slowed, their paths became more erratic, and they made more deep dives, all indications of probable foraging. This suggests that location of the penguin migration route and rate of travel along it may be determined by seasonal movement of prey. As all birds were within 250 km of shore for the entire period in which signals were received, our results underscore the importance of controlling pollution associated with petroleum transport along the coast of Argentina, currently a major source of Magellanic Penguin mortality.
40306180|The role of both temporal and spatial variability in nest predation and food availability in influencing birds' decisions about clutch size has not been studied. I examine patterns in nest-predation risk and food availability across a range of severity of wildfire to investigate their relationship to clutch size in the Dark-eyed Junco (
10.2307/1368147|I describe population densities, sex ratios, and the social behavior of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) at two sites in eastern California. Sex ratios are similar here, but differ from those observed elsewhere. Population densities vary between the two study areas and elsewhere. Although the level of intrasexual aggression among females differs between my study areas, female territoriality is absent. Most mated males at both study areas are monogamous, but a few are bigamists. Males differ in their attendance of females here and elsewhere. Local variation in cowbird social behavior may be correlated with population density, rather than sex ratio. In low density populations, selection may favor aggression among females, monogamy, and more frequent mate attendance by males.
10.1525/cond.2012.110132|Nutrient-allocation models based on stable-isotope analysis are used to determine the nutrient sources birds invest in eggs. This approach is particularly useful for birds that migrate between habitats with distinct stable-isotope compositions. A crucial variable is the difference in stable-isotope values of egg tissues relative to diet, so appropriate adjustments can be used in models comparing nutrients from tissues to putative food sources. We established discrimination factors () between the diet and eggs of captive Spectacled Eiders (
1370369| Omao (Myadestes obscurus) from the Hawaiian Islands typically have very low prevalences of infection with avian malaria (Plasmodium relictum) and it is not clear whether they share the same high susceptibility to this parasite that has been documented in native Hawaiian honeycreepers. We exposed four captive Omao to single infective mosquito bites and measured parasitemia, serological responses, and mortality over time. All four birds experienced transient infections with low parasitemias and were immune when rechallenged with multiple infective mosquito bites. By contrast, three of four honeycreepers (Maui Alauahio, Paroreomyza montana) that were exposed to the same dose and parasite isolate succumbed to infection. All four Omao developed antibodies to a common suite of malarial antigens that were detectable on immunoblots of a crude red blood cell extract of P. relictum. We used this technique to screen plasma samples from wild Omao and endangered Puaiohi (Myadestes palmeri) that were captured at elevations between 900 and 1300 m on the islands of Hawaii and Kauai. We found that the true prevalence of infection at elevations where active malaria transmission occurs is much higher than estimates based on blood smears alone. Hawaiian thrushes appear to have a high tolerance for malaria, with most individuals developing chronic, low-level infections after exposure that cannot be diagnosed accurately by blood smears. /// En las Islas de Hawaii, Myadestes obscurus se encuentra infectado con malaria aviana (Plasmodium relictum) en frecuencias tpicamente muy bajas, y no est claro si su susceptibilidad a este parsito es tan alta como la documentada en Paroreomyza montana ("honeycreepers" nativos de Hawaii). En este estudio expusimos cuatro M. obscurus cautivos a una sola picadura de mosquitos infectados y medimos parasitemia, respuestas serolgicas, y mortalidad a travs del tiempo. Las cuatro aves sufrieron infecciones transitorias con baja parasitemia y fueron inmunes cuando las sometimos nuevamente a mltiples picaduras de mosquitos infectados. En contraste, tres de los cuatro P. montana que fueron expuestos a la misma dosis y parsito murieron como consecuencia de la infeccin. Los cuatro M. obscurus desarrollaron, para una misma serie de antgenos de malaria, anticuerpos que fueron detectables en inmunoblastos de un extracto de globulos rojos de P. relictum. Usamos esta tcnica para revisar muestras de plasma provenientes de individuos silvestres de M. obscurus y de la especie amenazada M. palmeri capturados entre los 900 y 1300 m de elevacin en las Islas de Hawaii y Kauai. Encontramos que la verdadera frecuencia de infeccin en las elevaciones donde ocurre la transmisin activa de malaria es mucho ms alta que las estimaciones basadas solamente en frotis de sangre. Los Myadestes de Hawaii parecen tener una alta tolerancia a la malaria, y la mayora de los individuos expuestos presentan bajos niveles crnicos de infeccin que no pueden ser diagnosticados con precisin en frotis de sangre. 
4500970| The Margarornis assemblage includes four genera: Margarornis, Premnoplex, Premnornis, and Roraimia, all thought to be closely related. Differences in vocalizations and habitat use between Premnoplex brunnescens (Spotted Barbtail) and P. tatei (White-throated Barbtail) are consistent with their full species status. In light of the weak anatomical (hindlimb musculature) evidence supporting the inclusion of Premnornis in the Margarornis assemblage, the convergence-prone nature of characters associated with climbing habits, and the differences in their nests and foraging behavior, I propose that Premnornis is not a member of the Margarornis assemblage and that Premnoplex is closely related only to Margarornis. These results are supported by recent molecular phylogenetic analyses. Although Roraimia differs in plumage, tail shape, and song from other members of the Margarornis assemblage, it must be provisionally included in the assemblage until evidence clarifies its phylogenetic position. /// El ensamble Margarornis incluye cuatro gneros: Margarornis, Premnoplex, Premnornis y Roraimia, aparentemente cercanamente emparentados. Las diferencias de hbitat y voces de Premnoplex brunnescens y de P. tatei son consistentes con su estatus especfico. A la luz de la dbil evidencia anatmica (musculatura apendicular) apoyando la inclusin de Premnornis en el ensamble Margarornis, la naturaleza convergente de los caracteres asociados a los hbitos trepadores y las diferencias en comportamiento y nidificacin, propongo que Premnornis no es un miembro del ensamble Margarornis y que Premnoplex estara solamente cercamente emparentado a Margarornis. Estos resultados son congruentes con recientes estudios moleculares. Aunque Roraimia difiere en plumaje, forma de la cola y canto de otros miembros del ensamble Margarornis, debe ser provisionalmente incluido en l hasta que ms evidencia aclare su posicin filogentica. 
10.2307/1370152|We examined geographic variation between sexes in calls of Blue Petrel Halobaena caerulea, and at macro- (five archipelagoes) and microscales (seven islands). Using calls from 504 different individuals, we detected a significant geographic variation in males at both geographical scales, but not in females. Overall, the first syllables and silences, and some frequency parameters were highly variable between localities. In males, micro- and macroscale variations appeared equally significant, although more parameters were involved at a micro level. We discuss these results according to several hypothesis: vocal learning, environmental effect and population marker, and finally suggest that genetic drift, coupled with strong philopatry, may account for these differences.
90008464|In this issue of
10.2307/1366784|An overview of the foraging characteristics of tyrant flycatchers (Tyrannidae) is presented in three parts. First, the physical techniques of different prey capture methods are described, and a standardized nomenclature for these techniques is suggested. Second, ten predominant "foraging modes" are defined according to the comparative frequencies with which each prey capture method is used by different species. Certain species use specialized foraging modes, in that their foraging behavior is confined to a single capture method. Other more generalized foraging modes are characterized by the use of several or many capture methods with similar frequency. Third, the distribution of these foraging modes within the family as a whole is summarized in a genus by genus outline, with genera grouped according to a recent systematic revision of the family. The resulting pattern shows that each of the three subfamilies contains certain behaviorally generalized genera as well as radiations into related, but more specialized, foraging modes.
1370029| Few monitoring programs in North America track bird populations at a continental scale during the winter, a critical stage of the life cycle for many species. To date, only Christmas Bird Counts (CBC) have been used to index bird abundance in winter across North America. We evaluated another continentwide program, Project Feeder Watch (PFW), which monitors many bird species more intensively than CBC. PFW is a survey in which volunteers use standardized methods to count birds visiting feeders every two weeks from November through April. We compared population indices and trends from PFW and CBC data for 43 species in 3 regions of Ontario, Canada, over a 21-year period from 1976-1997. Annual population indices from PFW were significantly positively correlated with similar indices from CBC for about 80% of species for which annual variation in counts was substantially greater than sampling error. Log-linear population trends from both surveys were also well correlated, though the absolute value of the trend estimates tended to be higher for PFW. The high consistency between surveys suggests that both may be suitable for detecting population changes for many bird species in winter, especially irruptive species that show large annual fluctuations, and species with marked population trends. However, some species did not correspond between surveys, despite being measured fairly precisely, highlighting the value of having two independent surveys to corroborate patterns. Christmas Bird Counts have the advantage that they sample more species, but Project FeederWatch has a more consistent protocol and continues through the winter, allowing analysis of changes in populations through the winter. /// Pocos programas de monitoreo en Amrica del Norte siguen a las poblaciones de aves a escala continental durante el invierno, cuando muchas especies pasan por una etapa crtica en su ciclo de vida. Hasta el presente, slo los Conteos de Aves de Navidad (CAN) han sido usados para cuantificar la abundancia de aves en el invierno a lo largo de Amrica del Norte. Nosotros evaluamos otro programa a nivel continental, el Proyecto de Observacin de Comederos (POC), el cual sigue muchas especies de aves de modo ms intenso que los CAN. El POC es un programa de muestreo en el cual voluntarios usan mtodos estandarizados para contar las aves que visitan comederos, censndolas cada dos semanas entre noviembre y abril. Comparamos ndices y tendencias poblacionales de los datos del POC y de los CAN para 43 especies en 3 regiones de Ontario, Canad, a lo largo de un perodo de 21 aos entre 1976 y 1997. Los ndices poblacionales anuales del POC estuvieron positiva y significativamente correlacionados con ndices similares de los CAN para alrededor del 80% de las especies, considerando aquellas para las que la variacin anual en los conteos fue sustancialmente mayor que el error de muestreo. Las tendencias poblacionales de ambos muestreos, representadas de modo log-lineal, tambin estuvieron bien correlacionadas, aunque el valor absoluto de la tendencia estimada tendi a ser mayor para el POC. La alta consistencia entre los programas de muestreo sugiere que ambos pueden ser adecuados para detectar los cambios poblacionales de muchas especies de aves durante el invierno, especialmente para especies eruptivas que muestran grandes fluctuaciones anuales, y para aquellas con tendencias poblacionales marcadas. Sin embargo, algunas especies mostraron diferencias entre los programas de muestreo a pesar de haber sido medidas de modo bastante preciso, destacando el valor de tener dos mtodos de muestreo independientes para corroborar los patrones. Los Conteos de Aves de Navidad tienen la ventaja de que muestrean ms especies, pero el Proyecto de Observacin de Comederos posee un protocolo ms consistente y se prolonga a travs del invierno, permitiendo analizar los cambios de las poblaciones a travs de este perodo. 
40072399|We estimated the population size of McKay's Buntings (
4122548| The importance of flooding to birds that nest in bottomland hardwood forests is poorly understood, in part because floods are difficult to predict. A large flood occurred in 2002, during our study of cavity-nesting Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) in the Mississippi River floodplain. Nests were depredated prior to and after, but not during, the four-week flood. This observation prompted a retrospective analysis of flooding, nest predation, and nest success for our three-year study period of 2000-2002 and with a dataset extending back to 1995. Nest predation was lower and nest success was higher in the floodplain during floods. Flood conditions did not significantly affect nest success or nest predation rates in the adjacent upland, but nest success in upland forest was higher than in the floodplain during dry periods. Historically, spring flooding of riparian areas may to some extent have mitigated nest predation in bottomland forests. /// La importancia de las inundaciones para las aves que nidifican en los bosques ribereos de maderas duras est poco entendida, en parte porque las inundaciones son difciles de predecir. Una gran inundacin ocurri en 2002, durante nuestro estudio de nidos en cavidades de Aix sponsa en la planicie de inundacin del Ro Mississippi. Los nidos fueron depredados antes y despus de la inundacin, pero no durante las cuatro semanas de inundacin. Esta observacin origin un anlisis retrospectivo de la inundacin, la depredacin de nidos y el xito de nidificacin en el perodo de estudio de 2000 a 2002, combinado con una base de datos que se extenda hasta 1995. La depredacin de nidos fue menor y el xito de los nidos fue mayor en la planicie de inundacin durante las inundaciones. Las condiciones de las inundaciones no afectaron significativamente el xito de nidificacin o las tasas de depredacin de los nidos en las tierras altas adyacentes, pero el xito de nidificacin en los bosques de tierras altas fue mayor que en las planicies de inundacin durante los perodos secos. Histricamente, las inundaciones de primavera de las reas ribereas pueden haber mitigado en alguna medida la depredacin de los nidos en los bosques ribereos. 
1369676|We examined habitat use by Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) and Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) that nest together in mixed-species colonies in the Camargue of southern France. We explored the relative use of seven habitat types in relation to their availability and tested the hypothesis that selection of habitat types was related to foraging success, with the prediction that increased foraging success in a given habitat corresponded with increased use of that habitat type. Ricefields and other agricultural habitats were used more than expected by Cattle Egrets, an invasive species in southern Europe; whereas Little Egrets, which are native to the Camargue, tended to select natural freshwater marshes and lagoons. Results were consistent with the hypothesis that increasing use of habitats corresponded with higher foraging success for both species. However, when this analysis was restricted to habitats with sufficient numbers of birds to enable estimates of biomass intake, the association was no longer apparent for Little Egrets.
10.2307/1370076|We examined the potential functions of old nests in a population of Brown Thrashers (Toxostoma rufum) nesting on the Konza Prairie Research Natural Area in northeastern Kansas. We determined whether thrashers reuse nests constructed in previous years, and tested predictions of the hypothesis that old nests function to reduce the risk of nest predation by saturating the cues used by search-strategy predators. We also manipulated old-nest densities to test the hypothesis that old nests are used as indirect cues for nest-site selection. Thrashers were found to reuse nests, albeit at low rates (4% of nests monitored). We found no significant relationships between the density of old nests and the success of active nests, and experimentally removing nests did not influence nest-site selection. These results suggest that old nests may only benefit thrashers in this population as a resource to reduce the time spent in nest construction.
10.2307/1367035|In recent years abdominal lesions attributable to larval dermestid beetles (Dermestes nidum) have appeared in nestling Snail (Everglade) Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis), Wood Storks (Mycteria americana), and Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias). Although it appears that most nestlings affected have survived, the degree of threat posed by dermestid larvae to various avian species is as yet unclear.
90008529|Identifying small, isolated populations is a conservation priority, not only because isolation may result in negative fitness consequences, but these populations may also harbor unique genetic diversity. The Greater Sage-Grouse (
4151043|The Resplendent Quetzal (Pharomachrus mocinno) is a threatened bird species classified into two putative subspecies (P. m. mocinno and P. m. costaricensis) and distributed in cloud forests of seven countries in Mesoamerica. Because the birds are rare, tissue samples are difficult to obtain, but we analyzed genetic diversity in 25 quetzals from five countries based on 255 bp of domain I of the control region of mitochondrial DNA. Eight haplotypes were detected. Nucleotide diversity for Mexico (P. m. mocinno: 0.0021) and Panama (P. m. costaricensis: 0.0026) were low, and did not differ from the values estimated for other birds species irrespective of whether they were endangered. A haplotype tree rooted with the Pavonine Quetzal (P. pavoninus) recovered two reciprocally monophyletic clades corresponding to each subspecies, so we propose that each subspecies be considered as an evolutionarily significant unit for conservation planning. A minimum spanning network showed the number of genetic differences separating haplotypes within subspecies was small relative to the number of substitutions among them, indicating strong population subdivision (
10.1525/cond.2009.090082|In many passerines, rates of extra-pair paternity are high, but relatively few studies have examined the behaviors females use to obtain extra-pair copulations. We studied extra-pair behavior in females of the Acadian Flycatcher (
10.2307/1369914|Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica) were observed pecking on fallow deer (Dama dama) on 56 occasions. Ectoparasite removal was apparently the reason for this interaction. Birds preferred deer that were sitting to deer that were standing, and interacted preferentially with adult males over females or calves. Deer did not solicit cleaning and, on a few occasions, were observed to shake off birds. This interaction may be beneficial for magpies, because ectoparasites are a predictable source of food, but its effect on fallow deer remains to be investigated.
10.1525/cond.2010.100147|The Rusty Blackbird (
10.2307/1367556|The songs of the Winter Wren in North America are long and complex, but consist of highly organized and repeatable sequences of different song units. Eastern and western populations differ markedly in complexity of song types and overall repertoire size. Two eastern males sang only two song types, while one intensively studied Oregon male sang at least 30 stable song types; temporal and frequency parameters also gave the impression of greater complexity within Oregon songs. At both locations, though, neighboring males sang nearly identical song units or (especially in New York) entire songs, indicating that vocal learning is fundamental to song ontogeny. The complex song of the Winter Wren may be a product of intense sexual selection in a polygynous mating system, but further data on both mating systems and song complexity in different populations are needed before this hypothesis can be critically assessed.
4096517| Habitat loss and fragmentation have been identified as important factors in the decline of grassland bird populations. However, population declines are apparent even in prairie ecosystems that remain relatively intact suggesting that additional factors are involved. The degradation of breeding habitat may be one such factor, but few studies have examined habitat-specific demography of grassland birds, and thus little is known of how changes in breeding habitat may be related to population declines. We addressed this question by comparing reproductive success of Chestnut-collared Longspurs (Calcarius ornatus) in patches of native prairie and in monocultures of crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum), a grass introduced from Asia. Using recently developed methods for estimating nest survival rate, we found that, independent of habitat type, daily nest survival generally declined from egg laying to fledging. We also found a positive effect of clutch size on nest survival rate, which we interpreted as evidence for individual heterogeneity in nest survival. Finally, we found that the odds of a nest surviving a given day were 17% lower in the exotic habitat, and that nestlings grew more slowly, and had a smaller final mass in the exotic habitat. Despite having lower reproductive success in the exotic habitat, we found no evidence that Chestnut-collared Longspurs preferred to nest in the native habitat. Our results show that the introduction and spread of a commonly planted exotic grass has adverse fitness consequences for a grassland bird, and highlight the importance of maintaining native prairie. /// La prdida y fragmentacin de hbitat han sido identificados como factores importantes con respecto a la disminucin de las poblaciones de aves de pastizales. Sin embargo, las poblaciones estn en disminucin an en ecosistemas de pradera relativamente intactos, lo que sugiere que otros factores estn involucrados en el proceso. La degradacin del hbitat de nidificacin podra ser uno de estos factores adicionales, pero pocos estudios han examinado la demografa de aves de pastizales en distintos h bitats. En consecuencia, se conoce muy poco acerca de cmo los cambios en el hbitat podran estar relacionados con las disminuciones poblacionales. En este estudio abordamos esta pregunta comparando el  xito reproductivo de individuos de la especie Calcarius ornatus en parches de praderas nativas y en monocultivos de Agropyron cristatum, un pasto introducido de Asia. Empleando mtodos recientemente desarrollados para estimar la tasa de supervivencia de los nidos, encontramos que independientemente del tipo de hbitat, la supervivencia diaria de los nidos en general disminuy desde la puesta hasta el momento de emplumamiento de los pichones. Tambin encontramos un efecto positivo del tamao de la nidada sobre la tasa de supervivencia de los nidos, el cual interpretamos como evidencia de que existe heterogeneidad individual en la supervivencia de los nidos. Finalmente, encontramos que en el ambiente extico la probabilidad de sobrevivir de un nido durante un da dado fue un 17% menor, los pichones crecieron ms lentamente y presentaron una masa final menor. A pesar de presentar un xito reproductivo menor en el ambiente ex tico, no encontramos evidencia de que las aves prefirieran nidificar en el ambiente nativo. Nuestros resultados muestran que la introduccin y propagacin de un pasto extico que es plantado con frecuencia tiene efectos adversos sobre la adecuacin de un ave de pastizal, y resaltan la importancia de mantener las praderas nativas. 
10.1525/cond.2012.100209|Food availability and acquisition are critical components of a stopover site's suitability, but we know relatively little about how changes in food availability affect the stopover ecology of migrating landbirds. We examined fruit and arthropod availability in three habitats, studied foraging behavior and diet, and investigated use versus availability for passerines migrating through southwestern Idaho in autumn. Hemiptera dominated foliage-dwelling arthropod communities in all three habitats, whereas Hymenoptera were most numerous among ground-dwelling arthropods. Mountain shrubland had relatively high biomass of both ground-dwelling and foliage-dwelling arthropods, whereas conifer forest had high biomass of foliage-dwelling arthropods only and shrubsteppe had high biomass of ground-dwelling arthropods only. Species' foraging behavior varied, but most species foraged in mountain shrubland more often than expected by chance. Diets of most species included a high proportion of certain Hemiptera and Hymenoptera with smaller proportions of Coleoptera, Diptera, and Heteroptera; Coleoptera and some Hemiptera were consistently preferred by most species. Importantly, all 19 bird species examined consumed some fruit, and this is the first documentation of frugivory for two warbler species. These data point to the importance of several arthropod taxa, especially the Hemiptera and Hymenoptera, and fruits to landbirds migrating in mountain shrubland in autumn. Finally, we found no effect of annual variation of fruit or arthropod abundance on migrants' energetic condition, suggesting that food was sufficient for mass gain in all years of this study and/or that foraging behavior may be plastic enough to allow birds to gain mass despite annual differences in food availability.
10.2307/1367884|Ring-necked Pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) chicks exposed to a hen incubation vocalization during the final week of incubation showed stronger attraction to feeding and caution calls than expected by chance when tested one, three and five days post-hatching. Control chicks incubated in silence did not differ from chance in response to the caution call. Largest differences between experimental and control chicks for positive responses to the caution call occurred at one and three days post-hatching. Differences for positive response to the feeding call were greatest at one and five days post-hatching. Correct pecking behavior in response to feeding calls was greater at all test ages in chicks exposed to incubation calls than in control chicks. However, when tested on the caution call, control chicks responded with correct hiding behavior more often than experimentals at one day of age. Correct behavior in response to the caution call greatly increased in experimental chicks at three days post-hatching but not in controls. By five days post-hatching, experimentals and controls were nearly equal. Calls by the incubating hen pheasant act to sensitize and predispose embryonic chicks for proper responses to calls that they will hear after hatching. Stages of post-hatching development and learning possibly have some modifying influence on the timing of responsiveness to post-hatching calls.
4151017| We present an enhancement of a simulation model to predict annual productivity for Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelind) and American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla); the model includes effects of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism. We used species-specific data from the Driftless Area Ecoregion of Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Iowa to parameterize the model as a case study. The simulation model predicted annual productivity of 2.03  1.60 SD for Wood Thrushes and 1.56  1.31 SD for American Redstarts. Our sensitivity analysis showed that high parasitism lowered Wood Thrush annual productivity more than American Redstart productivity, even though parasitism affected individual nests of redstarts more severely. Annual productivity predictions are valuable for habitat managers, but productivity is not easily obtained from field studies. Our model provides a useful means of integrating complex life history parameters to predict productivity for songbirds that experience nest parasitism. /// Presentamos un modelo de simulacin mejorado para predecir la productividad anual de Hylocichla mustelina y Setophaga ruticilla que considra el efecto del parasitismo por Molothrus ater. Utilizamos datos especie-especificos de la ecorregin "Driftless Area" de Wisconsin, Minnesota y Iowa para determinar los parmetros del modelo como un caso de estudio. El modelo de simulacin predijo una productividad anual de 2.03  1.60 DE para H. mustelina y de 1.56  1.31 DE para S. ruticilla. El anlisis de sensibilidad mostr que altos niveles de parasitismo disminuyeron la productividad anual de H. mustelina en un mayor grado que la de S. ruticilla, a pesar de que el parasitismo a nivel de cada nido afect de forma ms severa a S. ruticilla. Las predicciones de productividad anual son valiosas para el manejo de hbitats, pero las medidas de productividad no son obtenidas fcilmente mediante estudios de campo. Nuestro modelo provee una herramienta til para integrar parmetros de historia de vida para predecir la productividad de aves canoras que son parasitadas en sus nidos. 
10.2307/3247718|We studied the historical biodiversity of cormorants and shags in the central Aleutians by examining the presence and abundance of bones deposited in two large Aleut middens located on Amchitka Island, Alaska. The temporal range of discrete strata in these deposits was from Russian-era contact to about 2,650 years before present. We found six species in these middens: Pelagic, Red-faced, and Kenyon's Shags (Stictocarbo [Phalacrocorax] pelagicus, S. urile, S. kenyoni), Double-crested (Hypoleucus [Phalacrocorax] auritus), Japanese (Phalacrocorax capillatus) and Pallas's Cormorants (Compsohalieus [Phalacrocorax] perspicillatus), ranked in order of abundance. Historical patterns of abundance differed among species. Japanese and Pallas's Cormorants were most likely chance arrivals to the island; Double-crested Cormorants were not found post-contact and we hypothesize that Arctic Foxes may have extirpated them here; Pelagic and Red-faced Shags have remained in constant Proportion over the years and abundances may relate to environmental or climatic change. Little is known about S. kenyoni. These results suggest that the diversity of the marine coastal avifauna has experienced dynamic change during the late Holocene and that the distributions of shags and cormorants in particular were different than now known.
10.2307/1368066|Activity and foraging aggression of Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) were compared among five different habitats used during fall, winter, or spring migration. Time spent in aggression and rates of aggressive encounters during the day were higher in habitats where food items were larger relative to food densities. Foraging aggression was rare in estuarine bays where most Canvasbacks wintered. Relative dominance of males and females varied among sites during fall and winter; but when pairing began during spring migration, paired females were more aggressive and dominant than all other classes of sex and pair status. In estuarine bays, predation pressure by Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) apparently caused Canvasbacks and other diving ducks (Aythyini) to stay in dense flocks, in which feeding-site defense was unfeasible, and antipredator tactics (selfish herding, confusion effect) conflicted with maintaining proximity to particular individuals. It appears that (1) foods of Canvasbacks over much of their wintering range are not scarce and economically defendable consistently enough to justify costs of maintaining pair-bonds for dominance purposes; and (2) feeding-site defense and proximity of mates required to maintain and benefit from pair-bonds conflict with antipredator tactics of Canvasbacks in open water. These factors may partly explain the absence of early pairing in Canvasbacks and other species of Aythya.
1370395| Mayr and Johnson suggest that Spizella taverneri should be a subspecies of the biological species S. breweri, because it is possibly not reproductively isolated. We originally concluded that evidence from mitochondrial DNA sequences, habitat preferences, timing of breeding, vocalizations, and morphology supported the recognition of S. taverneri as a phylogenetic and biological species. Nothing in the commentary by Mayr and Johnson causes us to change that conclusion. We believe that it is probable that these two allopatric taxa are isolated. Contrary to Mayr and Johnson, we believe that more information is given by ranking S. taverneri as a species, because it reveals the fact that they are independently evolving taxa. The classification of Spizella should convey the sister-species status of S. taverneri and S. breweri, without regard for balancing the degree of sequence divergence among species, as suggested by Mayr and Johnson. /// Mayr y Johnson sugieren que Spizella taverneri debe ser una subespecie de la especie biolgica S. breweri, porque posiblemente no se encuentra aislada reproductivamente. Nosotros originalmente concluimos que la evidencia de las secuencias del ADN mitocondrial, preferencias de hbitat, temporalidad de la reproduccin, vocalizaciones y morfologa apoyaban el reconocimiento de S. taverneri como una especie tanto filogentica como biolgica. Nada en el comentario de Mayr y Johnson causa que cambiemos esa conclusin. Creemos que es probable que ese par de taxones aloptricos estn aislados. Contrariamente a Mayr y Johnson, creemos que se proporciona ms informacin designando a S. taverneri como especie, pues revela el hecho de que ambos son taxones que evolucionan independientemente. La clasificacin de Spizella debe mostrar el estatus de especies hermanas de S. taverneri y S. breweri, sin tomar en cuenta para el balance el grado de divergencia de las secuencias entre las especies, como fue sugerido por Mayr y Johnson. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100064|Knowledge of the dynamics of long-distance migrations of pelagic seabirds is limited. Recent advances in tracking technology have yielded detailed, continuous accounts of the movements of individual seabirds over large spatial and temporal scales. We studied the timing of migration and year-round distribution of the Westland Petrel (
10.2307/1368179|Quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) staminate flower buds are an important winter food for Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus); however, use of these buds can vary among years. One explanation for this differential use of aspen flower buds is that the buds' nutritional value or palatability changes. It has been proposed that fluctuations in the chemical content of aspen buds may affect their utilization by Ruffed Grouse, and that the utilization of aspen may be positively related to the population density these birds can maintain. This paper focuses on three key links of the above hypothesis: whether there are significant annual changes in the chemistry of aspen buds, whether aspen utilization by Ruffed Grouse is mediated by the chemistry of the buds, and whether there is a correlation between aspen use and changes in grouse densities. We monitored chemical changes in aspen flower buds periodically over 11 years and related chemical changes to aspen use and Ruffed Grouse densities. Additionally, previous studies were re-examined to determine the relationship between aspen consumption and changes in grouse densities. Significant differences were observed in coniferyl benzoate and protein levels among years. Data suggest that there may be inherent differences among aspen clones in their ability to chemically defend themselves. Use of aspen buds by grouse appears to be mediated by coniferyl benzoate and protein levels. Quaking aspen use was highly correlated to Ruffed Grouse densities. Lack of suitable or available aspen in the winter may increase predation risks and energetic costs for Ruffed Grouse.
10.2307/1369651| We conducted a capture-recapture study of Zenaida Doves (Zenaida aurita) in three neighboring dairy farms in eastcentral Puerto Rico during 1984-1997. During 46 sampling periods, mean survival rate per sampling period was 0.77 (range = 0.1-1.0), mean recruitment was 911 individuals (range = 182-5,124), and mean population size was 1,569 individuals (range = 233-7,354). Survival increased during 1984-1991 and decreased during 1992-1997. Recruitment did not show a trend, but population size increased during 1984-1997. Rate of increase was a curvilinear decreasing function of population size. A demographic model with a fixed mortality rate stabilized at 1,350 individuals. When mortality rate was defined as a normal random variable, mean population size was 1,421 individuals, and there was a 0.95 probability of observing population sizes from 467 to 2,375 individuals. The size of the Zenaida Dove population varied widely over time, but periods of high recruitment rapidly offset periods of low survival in the dairy farms. /// Efectuamos un estudio de captura-recaptura de la trtola cardosantera (Zenaida aurita) en tres vaqueras colindantes en el estecentral de Puerto Rico durante 1984-1997. Durante 46 perodos de muestreo, el promedio de la tasa de sobrevivencia por perodo de muestreo fue 0,77 (rango = 0,10-1,0), el reclutamiento promedio fue 911 individuos (rango = 182-5.124), y el tamao poblacional promedio fue 1.569 individuos (rango = 233-7.354). La sobrevivencia aument durante 1984-1991 y disminuy durante 1992-1997. El reclutamiento no mostr una tendencia, pero el tamao poblacional aument durante 1984-1997. La tasa de crecimiento fue una funcin curvilinear decreciente del tamao poblacional. Un modelo demogrfico con una tasa de mortandad fija se estabiliz en 1.350 individuos. Cuando la tasa de mortandad fue definida como una variable normal aleatoria, la media del tamao poblacional fue 1.421 individuos, y hubo una probabilidad de 0,95 de observar tamaos poblacionales entre 467 y 2.375 individuos. El tamao de la poblacin de trtolas cardosanteras vari ampliamente a travs del tiempo, pero los perodos de alto reclutamiento rpidamente compensaron a los perodos de baja sobrevivencia en las vaqueras. 
10.2307/1369502|We studied the migratory movements of radio-equipped Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) along a 4,000 km stretch of the west coast of North America from California to Alaska during the 1992 spring migration. A total of 77 shorebirds were radio-tagged at San Francisco Bay, CA; Bolinas Lagoon, CA; Fraser River Delta, British Columbia; and the Stikine River Delta, AK. Daily aerial and ground monitoring from mid-April to late May at banding sites as well as the Copper River Delta provided data on length of stay of individual shorebirds and migration times between study areas. Fifty-eight shorebirds were detected beyond banding sites for a 74% net relocation rate. The proportion of birds detected along the migration route increased with latitude: Grays Harbor, WA (3.4%); Fraser River, British Columbia (8.6%); Stikine River, AK (28.6%); and Copper River, AK (62.3%). Length of stay averaged three days per site. We failed to detect differences in length of stay among sites or between sexes. A condition index calculated as body mass standardized for body size was a poor indicator of length of stay at a site or migration time among sites. An estimated 26% of radio-equipped birds were never relocated suggesting that migrant birds use smaller dispersed wetlands as well as the major intertidal wetland complexes we studied. We conclude that most spring migrant Western Sandpipers use a short-flight hopping migration strategy rather than a few sustained long flights. The short-flight strategy emphasizes the importance of maintaining a continuous complex of intertidal wetland habitats along the migration route to ensure shorebird conservation.
10.2307/1369785|We assessed the effect of beak morphology on the acoustic structure of woodcreeper (subfamily Dendrocolaptinae) songs using a comparative analysis of independent contrasts. For the song of each species, we measured the maximum and minimum frequencies, the bandwidth, and the emphasized frequency. Residuals of variation in beak length and acoustic frequencies after controlling for body size and phylogeny were calculated for each species and compared. We found a negative relationship between the residuals of acoustic frequencies and the residuals of beak length. This relationship was significant for emphasized frequency when we excluded two open-habitat species, Scimitar-billed Woodcreeper (Drymornis bridgesii) and Narrow-billed Woodcreeper (Lepidocolaptes angustirostris). This result is consistent with the hypothesis that the suprasyringeal vocal tract has resonating properties that affect the frequency spectrum of the song.
10.1525/cond.2010.100149|We examined the nesting ecology of the Rusty Blackbird (
10.2307/1369020| I studied egg size variation, and the influence of egg size on early nestling growth, in Snow Petrels Pagodroma nivea breeding at Svarthamaren, Dronning Maud Land, Antarctica (7153S, 510E). Egg sizes ranged from 36.4 to 52.1 cm<sup>3</sup>, with a mean of 44.9 cm<sup>3</sup>. Hatching occurred during 16-24 January, with a median hatching date of 20 January. Egg size had a significant effect on the body mass of hatchlings, explaining 30% of the variation in body mass of nestlings hatched within the last 24 hr, and 58% of the body mass variation of nestlings weighed while still slightly wet. An experiment, which included swapping of eggs between nests, together with analyses of non-manipulated nests, revealed an effect of egg size on nestling body masses at ages of two and four days. From the experiment, no effect of maternal quality as expressed by her egg size could be found. At an age of four days, 40% of the nestlings were left alone in the nest by their parents. Nestlings not attended by a parent at this age were significantly lighter than were those with parental company. Parents that had left their young by the time these were four days old may have been poor quality birds, as indicated by the tendency for such birds to have laid smaller eggs than had those still tending their young at the same nestling age. 
10.2307/1367258|Patterns of nest placement and its relationship to nest success in the Eastern Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus) were studied in populations breeding in New York and Kansas. Data were augmented with information on nest placement in other open-nesting tyrannids in order to examine the hypothesis that these flycatchers place their nests chiefly so as to conceal them from predators. Nesting success was significantly greater in New York than in Kansas but was relatively high in both populations, as is apparently true of North American breeding flycatchers in general. Geographic variation in nest placement in the Eastern Kingbird was relatively small and statistical comparisons of failed and successful nests indicated that nests placed at mid-heights in the tree, and about midway between the center of the tree and canopy edge, were most successful. These nest sites were also the most commonly used sites. Increased vegetative cover around the nest and a greater number of supporting branches for the nest were also associated with success, and it is their interaction with nest height and distance from the canopy edge that is apparently most important in determining success. Most tyrant flycatchers nest several meters or more above the ground, and interspecific variation in nest placement matches the range of sites used by Eastern Kingbirds. Aggressive nest defense is apparently characteristic of the family, and average nest height is also positively correlated with length of the nestling period. These facts support the predator-avoidance hypothesis and suggest that nest placement habits and aggressive nest defense are means by which open-nesting birds can reduce rates of nestling mortality.
10.2307/1367570|Relationships of area with numbers of species and individuals of spring migrants were examined for 69 shelterbelts (forest islands) in eastern South Dakota. Total abundance and number of species were as highly correlated with area during spring migration as during the breeding season. The relationships of area with total abundance and number of species were highly similar between two years of study. Area was more important in determining abundance and number of species than either diversity of plant species or isolation of the islands. The dispersion of migrants among islands, indicated by the relationships of area with total abundance and species numbers, could have been a result of passive dispersal, selection for larger area, or behavioral interactions. Passive dispersal was unlikely because the isolation of an island had no significant influence on abundance or diversity. Also, the diversity and abundance of migrants were modified by habitat conditions (i.e., vegetation diversity), indicating that migrants select the forest islands they inhabit. Migrants may select large areas but they should then have increased with area at an increasing rate, but this did not occur. Dispersion among islands may be the best way for migrants to replenish their energy reserves when food is scarce. Two facts suggest that migrants may interact to disperse themselves relative to food. First, application of a model for interacting species provided increasingly better fits to ecological groups that increasingly confined their foraging within shelterbelts. Second, the density of birds was greater in smaller islands than in larger islands owing to species that did not feed solely within the islands. The density of birds that did feed primarily within the islands remained more or less constant with changing area.
10.2307/1369100|We studied the effects of hatch date and food supply on growth of goslings of the Greater Snow Goose (Chen caerulescens atlantica) at Bylot Island, Northwest Territories, Canada. Two groups of goslings were collected and imprinted on humans, one early (n = 15) and one late (n = 19) in the hatching period (span of 5-7 days). Early and late-hatched groups were each divided into food supplement and control treatments. Goslings from control groups fed exclusively on natural vegetation throughout the summer whereas those from the food-supplemented groups had access to a high-protein commercial diet for 12 hr each day. Early-hatched goslings grew faster, and were heavier and larger at 40 days (near fledging) than late-hatched goslings. Food-supplemented goslings also grew faster, and were heavier and larger at 40 days than controls. Plumage (9th primary) developed at a younger age when goslings hatched early or received a food supplement but plumage growth rate was constant among groups. Early-hatched goslings survived better than those hatched late, irrespective of feeding treatment. More late-hatched, food-supplemented goslings survived than late-hatched controls, but the difference was not significant. Goslings that were lighter than the mean were more likely to die than heavier ones at any given age. We conclude that differences in growth and possibly survival between early and late-hatched goslings are food-mediated and largely caused by the rapid decline in quality of arctic plants during the summer. Differences as small as 5-7 days in hatch dates may have major fitness consequences in arctic-nesting geese.
10.2307/1368276|Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) and Red-footed Boobies (Sula sula) roost in large numbers on the guy wires of the LORAN-C tower on Sand Island, Johnston Atoll, in the central Pacific Ocean. We quantified the diurnal pattern of movement to and from the atoll by the roosting, but nonnesting birds. The total number of birds using the atoll is difficult to determine but must be considered when making population estimates. By counting the roosting birds at 10 min after sunset a reliable estimate can be made of the maximum number of birds which will roost that evening. The number of roosting birds increases significantly when the trade winds decrease in velocity. Utilizing energy from winds and thermals is critical to these species for efficient flight, and energetic considerations may determine roosting patterns. Social interactions probably are secondary and result from the scarcity of suitable roost sites in the pelagic zone.
10.2307/1369501|The islands of Amsterdam and St. Paul each appear to have been inhabited by endemic populations of ducks that were exterminated by humans or human-introduced mammals in the past two hundred years. The duck from St. Paul is known only from a historical account in 1793. Abundant bone remains of a duck from Amsterdam Island are described as a new species, Anas marecula. This was a small, teal-sized species with very reduced wings and pectoral girdle, so that it was certainly flightless. The short, pointed bill suggests a possible derivation of the species from an ancestor related to the widgeons formerly segregated in the genus Mareca.
1370521| We studied how forest-bird nest success varied by landscape context from 1996 to 1998 in an agricultural region of southeastern Minnesota, southwestern Wisconsin, and northeastern Iowa. Nest success was 48% for all nests, 82% for cavity-nesting species, and 42% for cup-nesting species. Mayfield-adjusted nest success for five common species ranged from 23% for the American Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla) to 43% for the Eastern Wood-Pewee (Contopus virens). Nest success was lowest for open-cup nesters, species that reject Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs, species that nest near forest edges, and Neotropical migrants. The proportion of forest core area in a 5-km radius around the plot had a weakly negative relationship with daily survival rate of nests for all species pooled and for medium or high canopy nesters, species associated with interior and edge habitats, opencup nesters, and nests located between 75 and 199 m from an edge. The proportion of forest core area was positively related to daily survival rate only for ground and low nesters. Our findings are in contrast to a number of studies from the eastern United States reporting strong positive associations between forest area and nesting success. Supported models of habitat associations changed with the spatial scale of analysis and included variables not often considered in studies of forest birds, including the proportion of water, shrubs, and grasslands in the landscape. Forest area may not be a strong indicator of nest success in landscapes where all the available forests are fragmented. /// Entre 1996 y 1998 comparamos el xito de nidificacin en diferentes especies y paisajes en 18 parcelas ubicadas en una regin agrcola del sudeste de Minnesota, sudoeste de Wisconsin y noreste de Iowa. El xito de nidificacin fue del 48% para todas especies, del 82% para las especies que nidifican en cavidades y del 42% para las especies con nidos en forma de taza. El porcentaje del xito de nidificacin ajustado segn el criterio Mayfield para cinco especies comunes vari entre el 23% para Setophaga ruticilla y el 43% para Contopus virens. El xito de nidificacin fue menor para aves con nidos en forma de taza, para especies que rechazan los huevos de Molothrus ater, para especies que nidifican cerca del borde del bosque y para migrantes neotropicales. Al considerar reas circulares de 5 km de radio, detectamos una correlacin negativa dbil entre la proporcin de rea de bosque y el ndice de supervivencia diario de nidos para todas especies estudiadas, para las que nidifican en alturas medianas y altas del dosel, para especies asociadas con hbitats del interior o del borde del bosque, para especies de nidos en forma de taza y para nidos ubicados entre 75 y 199 m del borde. Slo las especies que nidifican sobre el suelo o a baja altura presentaron una correlacin positiva entre la proporcin de rea de bosque y el ndice de supervivencia diario. Nuestros resultados contrastan con varios estudios del este de los Estados Unidos que muestran fuertes asociaciones positivas entre el rea de bosque y el xito de nidificacin. Los modelos de asociacin de hbitat empleados cambiaron con la escala espacial de anlisis e incluyeron variables usualmente no consideradas por otros estudios, como la proporcin de agua, arbustos o pastizales en el paisaje. Es posible que el rea de bosque no sea un factor importante en el xito de nidificacin en paisajes donde todo el bosque disponible est fragmentado. 
10.2307/1369954| Seasonal differences in metabolism and cold hardiness are common among small passerine birds. However, seasonal adjustments of metabolism and insulation are less well studied in nonpasserines and in larger birds. We measured basal metabolic rate (BMR), metabolic response to temperature, and maximal capacity for thermogenesis (peak cold-induced oxygen consumption, <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm V}}\text{O}_{2\ \text{sum}}$</tex-math>) in late spring/summer and winter in outdoor captive Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) near the northern boundary of their natural range, to determine whether seasonal adjustments in metabolism are a component of acclimatization in this species. Mass, BMR and regression equations describing diurnal and nocturnal metabolic response to temperature were not significantly different between seasons. After metabolic tests below thermoneutrality, cloacal temperature (T<sub>b</sub>) was not dependent on ambient temperature (T<sub>a</sub>) at either season, and nocturnal T<sub>b</sub> did not differ significantly between seasons. However, after metabolic tests below thermoneutrality, diurnal T<sub>b</sub> was significantly greater in summer (38.9  1.1C) than in winter (37.7  1.1C). Although body mass of winter birds was significantly greater than their body mass in late spring, maximal thermogenic capacity did not differ significantly on a seasonal basis, and winter bobwhite were only marginally more cold tolerant than late spring birds under severe cold stress. For individual birds tested in both winter and late spring, individual ranking of <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm V}}_{2\ \text{sum}}$</tex-math> was not consistent between seasons (i.e., birds with a high <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm V}}_{2\ \text{sum}}$</tex-math> in winter did not necessarily have a high <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm V}}_{2\ \text{sum}}$</tex-math> in late spring). These data suggest little seasonal adjustment of metabolism or insulation in the Northern Bobwhite, a relatively large nonpasserine species native mainly to regions with relatively mild winter climates. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090022|Implanted transmitters have become an important tool for studying the ecology of sea ducks, but their effects remain largely undocumented. To address this, we assessed how abdominally implanted transmitters with percutaneous antennas affect the vertical dive speeds, stroke frequencies, bottom time, and dive duration of captive Common Eiders (
10.2307/1368184|Daily food consumption of captive Rufous Hummingbirds (Selasphorus rufus) was restricted during two different seasons to determine the effect of chronically reduced food intake on body mass and the role of nocturnal torpor in promoting changes in body mass. Daily food consumption was reduced to 70-90% of ad libitum levels for 15 days in spring and for 30 days in summer. In spring, all birds (n = 4) showed increases in both body mass and use of torpor during restriction, although energy saved by using torpor was sufficient to compensate for energy lost through food restriction in only two birds. As soon as ad libitum feeding was resumed, three of the four birds showed a decline in body mass and a reduction in the use of torpor. In summer, birds (n = 9) had higher body masses at the start of the experiment, reflecting normal seasonal fluctuations in body mass. During food restriction, birds spent less time torpid than during spring restriction, and in most birds body mass declined or showed no significant change. The initial response of all birds to the return of ad libitum feeding included decreased use of torpor and, in contrast to spring, a rapid increase in body mass. Seasonal differences in response to food restriction may reflect reduced stress response in these high-altitude, high-latitude breeders during the short breeding season, when the physiological and behavioral consequences of responding to environmental stress may interfere with breeding success.
10.2307/1369898| We monitored 42 radio-tagged, fledgling Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) to investigate movement and habitat use during the postfledging period. Fledglings' mean ( SE) age at dispersal from the natal sites was 32.5  0.6 days post hatching. First dispersal sites were located 1.5  0.3 km from the natal site. All young joined flocks of juveniles, except three birds that remained solitary. Sixteen birds stayed at the first dispersal site until departure on migration, whereas nine visited additional dispersal sites. On 40 occasions, 15 fledglings moved up to 6 km from their dispersal sites. Before late August, 96.7% of fledglings' locations occurred in: (1) second growth scrub/deciduous sapling sites located along forest borders and abandoned farms (59.4%), (2) gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) damaged deciduous forest (24.4%), and (3) Virginia pine (Pinus virginianus) forest with heavy deciduous understory (12.8%). Fruiting trees and shrubs used as food sources by juveniles fruit earlier in these habitats. After late August, an increased number of fledgling locations (14.1%) occurred in mature deciduous or mixed forest, possibly tracking the later fruiting cycles of understory plants in these habitats. Twenty-four of 33 fledglings left the study area in September. Mean age at departure was 81  5 days post hatching. We suggest that postfledging movements in Wood Thrushes are keyed by the availability of food resources and the presence of conspecifics, although other factors may play a role. We conclude that successful conservation of migratory species requires protection of habitats used during the postfledging period as well as those used during the nesting portion of the life cycle. 
10.2307/1369964|Fat loads of about 45% of total body mass are maximal for most shorebird migrants. In preparing to fly nonstop from staging areas in North America to South America, some late-staging adult Wilson's Phalaropes (Phalaropus tricolor) amass greater loads (to 54%) and for a brief period become too heavy to fly. This condition is associated with rapid mass gain, but may involve other factors. Despite ostensibly ideal conditions at staging areas, the phalaropes' greatest rate of fat deposition (3.4-3.6% lean body mass day<sup>-1</sup>) is only 60-70% of the theoretical maximum.
1370550| We used House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) as a model species to assess responses to different levels of human visitation in a fragmented urban landscape. Regionally, we analyzed linear and nonlinear variation in breeding densities in relation to observed pedestrian rates in forest fragments. Locally, we tested experimentally the resource-use--disturbance trade-off hypothesis, which suggests that an increase in the frequency of human visitation decreases the frequency of resource use by an animal, assuming that individuals react to humans as if they were potential predators, and that responses depend upon the probability of visually detecting humans. Breeding densities peaked at intermediate pedestrian rates in two consecutive years. Consumption rates of artificial food within fragments were higher at intermediate pedestrian rates, which may indicate that this species uses people as cues to find food. Consumption rates decreased at high pedestrian rates as a result of low tolerance to people and a reduction in the time devoted to foraging. Our results imply a balance between attraction to and avoidance of humans to account for these nonlinear responses, and that the resource-use--disturbance trade-off hypothesis can be a useful mechanistic explanation for understanding the responses to humans of species that may receive a direct or indirect benefit from human presence. /// Se escogi a Passer domesticus como especie modelo para analizar su respuesta a distintos niveles de perturbacin humana en un ambiente urbano fragmentado. Regionalmente, se analizaron las variaciones lineales y no-lineales en las densidades reproductivas con relacin a la tasa observada de visitantes a fragmentos forestales. Localmente, se comprob experimentalmente la hiptesis del balance entre el uso del recurso y perturbacin, la cual analiza la relacin entre la frecuencia de visita y la frecuencia de uso del recurso, suponiendo que los animales reaccionan hacia los humanos como si fuesen depredadores, y que las respuestas dependen de las probabilidades de deteccin de humanos. Las densidades reproductivas en dos aos consecutivos fueron ms elevadas con tasas de visita intermedias. Las tasas de consumo dentro de fragmentos mostraron un pico cuando la frecuencia de visita fue intermedia, lo que sugiere que esta especie utiliza a los humanos como indicadores de alimento; pero la tasa de consumo disminuy con frecuencias de visita mas elevadas como resultado de la baja tolerancia hacia humanos y la reduccin del tiempo dedicado a la alimentacin. Nuestros resultados indican que un balance entre atraccin y repulsin hacia humanos est involucrado en las respuestas no lineales y que la hiptesis del balance entre el uso del recurso y el disturbio puede ser una explicacin apropiada para comprender las respuestas de especies que reciben un beneficio directo o indirecto de la presencia humana. 
10.2307/1368387|Diurnal and seasonal patterns of attendance of Least Auklets (Aethia pusilla) and Crested Auklets (A. cristatella) were studied in 1987 at breeding colonies on St. Lawrence Island, Alaska. Numbers of auklets attending eight 200-m<sup>2</sup> plots on talus slopes were counted throughout the day by observers on 11 occasions through the breeding season. Numbers attending smaller plots were recorded on time-lapse film on 71 different days. Another 16 200-m<sup>2</sup> plots were censused for auklets using surface counts. Within-day patterns of attendance were extremely variable over small and large temporal scales. Peaks of attendance occurred in late morning and late evening, with a 7- to 12-hr period of absence in the middle of the day. Attendance varied markedly between days, and numbers were negatively correlated with wind speed and the magnitude of tidal oscillations. Patterns of attendance also varied with stage of breeding, and counts were least variable during incubation and early chick rearing. Whereas Least Auklet numbers peaked during prelaying, Crested Auklet numbers peaked during incubation. Counts indicated that auklets at Kongkok Bay have increased about twofold since studies in the mid-1960s. Recommendations are made for future monitoring of auklet populations.
10.2307/1367818|The relationships of the Wrentit (Chamaea fasciata) have been debated since its discovery in 1845. The titmice (Parus), babblers (Timaliini), Old World warblers (Sylviini), bushtits (Psaltriparus), wrens (Troglodytidae), and mockingbirds (Mimini) have been suggested as its closest relatives. Many authors have placed the Wrentit in a monotypic family, Chamaeidae. DNA-DNA hybridization comparisons between the homologous nucleotide sequences of the single-copy DNAs of the Wrentit and other passerines indicate that Chamaea is most closely related to the babblers and the Old World warblers, and that the latter two groups are ecotypes of a single, varied, monophyletic assemblage. The Wrentit is approximately equidistant from the sylviines and the timaliines, but ecologically it is a babbler.
10.2307/1370150|We used playback trials to determine whether birds will cross treeless gaps to respond to simulated territorial intruders. We evaluated the effect of gap width on responses by five forest bird species. We found that for forest specialists such as the Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus), Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus satrapa), and the Black-throated Green Warbler (Dendroica virens), the probability of crossing gaps decreased sharply with gaps 25-40 m wide. By contrast, control trials showed no significant decrease in their probability of response up to 100 m through continuous stands. Habitat generalists such as the White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) and the Dark-eyed Junco (Junco hyemalis) were more prone to cross treeless gaps than forest specialists. Playback studies provide a new tool for understanding birds' responses to microscale habitat discontinuities.
4500979| In this first study of vocal individuality in the Charadriidae, we describe vocal variation in the endangered Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus). We studied a long-distance advertisement call given by breeding males during aerial displays, because functionally similar vocalizations of scolopacids are known to be individualistic. We analyzed recordings of 10 breeding males on Prince Edward Island, Canada, made in 1998 and 1999. Calls varied substantially among males: variance among males (in one-way ANOVAs) averaged 61% of the total variance across variables, similar to two scolopacid species. Males were distinguishable from one another even on the basis of single calls. However, discrimination ability (classification success) improved sub-stantially when multiple-call averages per male were used; this approach more realistically represents how plovers experience one another's calls. Calls of two males changed little over days to weeks. In future work, individual identification can be improved by using averages from multiple calls. To improve techniques for application to the Piping Plover, we recommend research on marked individuals of common related species, which share many acoustic homologies. /// En este primer estudio sobre individualidad vocal en la familia Charadriidae describimos la variacin vocal en el playero Charadrius melodus, una especie en peligro de extincin. Estudiamos una llamada de advertencia de larga distancia que es emitida por machos reproductivos durante sus despliegues areos, debido a que se conoce que llamadas funcionalmente similares presentan individualidad en los escolopcidos. Analizamos grabaciones de 10 machos reproductivos hechas en 1998 y 1999 en la isla Prince Edward, Canad. Las llamadas variaron considerablemente entre machos: la varianza entre los machos (en un ANDEVA de una va) correspondi en promedio al 61% del total de la varianza en todas las variables, de modo similar a lo observado en dos especies de escolopcidos. Los machos fueron distinguibles entre s incluso con base en una sola llamada. Sin embargo, la habilidad de discriminacin (exito de clasificacin) mejor substancialmente cuando se utilizaron promedios de varias llamadas de un macho; este mtodo represent de mnera mas realista el modo en que los playeros perciben las llamadas entre individuos. Las llamadas de dos machos cambiaron muy poco entre das o semanas. En trabajos futuros, la identificacin individual puede ser mejorada con el uso de los promedios de mltiples llamadas. Para mejorar las tcnicas y aplicarlas en C. melodus, recomendamos investigar individuos marcados de especies comunes relacionadas que compartan muchas homologas acsticas. 
10.2307/1368516|The Alameda Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia pusillula) inhabits the salt marshes surrounding south San Francisco Bay. The Marin Song Sparrow (M. m. gouldii) resides in upland riparian habitats surrounding the entire bay system. To determine the effects that drinking water salinity might have on subspecies distribution, increasing proportions of seawater and NaCl in drinking solutions were tested using 22 individuals of each race. M. m. pusillula maintained body weight more effectively on concentrated drinking solutions than did M. m. gouldii. M. m. pusillula also showed a greater tolerance of weight loss than did M. m. gouldii. M. m. pusillula showed an ad libitum freshwater consumption typical of other salt-marsh fringillids and increased its consumption only slightly as the concentration of the drinking solution rose. M. m. gouldii showed a high level of ad libitum freshwater consumption and increased its fluid intake greatly as the drinking solution became more saline. Both races were able to maintain body weight on solutions as concentrated as those found in their respective habitats. M. m. gouldii was unable to maintain weight on water as saline as that found in local salt marshes. This may confine its distribution to upland regions which would tend to limit gene flow between populations of these two races. On the margins of south San Francisco Bay, habitat alteration and fragmentation may be altering distribution of the two races.
10.1525/cond.2012.110071|Birds' choices concerning nest attendance are influenced by state-dependent and environmental variables including food availability and predation pressure. Parents of altricial young with biparental care face a dilemma: they can choose to guard their nestlings against predation with their physical presence at the nest and ensure the fledging of at least one chick, or they can choose to leave the young unguarded so they can forage for more food, increasing provisioning rates and the probability of fledging more young. In group-nesting birds, parents may be able to dilute the risk of nest predation while leaving the nest to forage if they leave the nest unguarded when there are many other unguarded nests in the colony. The complexity of the parental decision to leave a nest unguarded is highlighted by variation in the chicks' age, within a nest and within the colony, and by differences in effects on nest success and nest fecundity. Our results suggest that the incremental fitness advantage of reducing predation risk by continuing to guard the nest is eventually outweighed by opportunities to reduce nestlings' risk of starvation. The effect is likely to reduce fledgling production within a colony when less food is available, which reinforces the importance of healthy and productive wetland ecosystems in maintaining viable populations of the Great Egret.
10.2307/1369912|We implanted 6 Common Murres (Uria aalge) and 10 Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia) with satellite transmitters and compared subsequent presence at the colony, nesting status, and provisioning to a control group that underwent a simple surgical procedure. In the 10 days following implantation, we resighted 10 of 11 control birds at the colony and 6 of 16 implanted birds. Of the birds that returned, 7 of 10 control birds retained breeding status, whereas zero of six implanted birds retained breeding status. We conclude that abdominal implantations alter murre nesting behavior.
10.1525/cond.2009.090085|Adults of several species of western North American passerines are known to migrate to the Mexican monsoon region to undergo molt from July to October before continuing migration to their wintering grounds in the neotropics, but little is known about the biology and habitat requirements of these birds on their molting grounds. Therefore we established 13 banding stations during the monsoon seasons of 2007 and 2008 in southeastern Arizona, central Sonora, and central Sinaloa. We studied the spatial and temporal occurrence of 10 previously known and 9 new species of molt migrants on the molting grounds. In many of these species most or all individuals appeared to undertake molt migration but in others it appeared to be limited to a small proportion of the population, underscoring that molt migration must be defined at the level of the individual rather than of the population. Our results suggest that during the drier 2007 monsoon season molt migrants sought out riparian habitats, whereas in the wetter 2008 season, when the flush of vegetation was greater, they were more widely distributed in drier habitats. Site fidelity to molting grounds was virtually zero, significantly less than site fidelity to banding stations on breeding and winter grounds. Our results suggest that molt migration to the Mexican monsoon region is a stochastic or plastic process, substantially influenced by individual choices related to variation in weather and the preceding breeding season. Our study also emphasizes the need to conserve a mosaic of habitats in the monsoon region appropriate for molting birds.
10.1525/cond.2011.100023|Habitat quality of a bird's breeding grounds has been typically evaluated by investigating patterns in nesting success, whereas events that follow fledging have been largely ignored. One especially overlooked aspect of breeding-habitat quality is how habitat affects the survival of young birds after they leave the nest, a period when mortality is notoriously high. We studied survival of fledglings of two mature-forest species, the Ovenbird (
40072432|We determined nest attendance patterns of Saltmarsh Sharp-tailed Sparrows (
10.2307/1368110|Analyses of breeding data from a coniferous forest in southwestern Sweden showed that Crested Tits (Parus cristatus) laid their first eggs about 2 weeks earlier, at a time when day lengths were about 1.5 hr shorter, than did Willow Tits (P. montanus) and Great Tits (P. major). In a laboratory study we investigated whether this difference was correlated with differences in gonadal growth and circulating levels of LH induced by increasing day length. It was found that the rapid testicular growth phase, in all three species, started when day length exceeded 12 hr. However, in Crested Tits and Great Tits plasma levels of LH started to increase when day length reached 11 hr, and in Willow Tits, 14 hr. This last result prompted a field experiment where we investigated how testicular growth and LH and testosterone titers in Willow Tits were affected by environmental factors such as population density and/or food availability during late winter to early spring. Samples were collected in mid-February and mid-March. Results showed that LH and testosterone secretion in males from a population given extra food during the entire winter, and as a consequence of this having a high population density, increased much earlier than the laboratory results predicted. However, in accordance with our laboratory data, LH levels in females from the manipulated population, and in males and females from the control population (given no extra food during the winter), did not increase between February and March. It is speculated that the endocrine effects on the "experimental males" were caused by an increased density of the Willow Tit population, and its effects on territorial behavior. The results are also discussed in comparison with earlier studies on free-living Great Tits and Willow Tits. It is concluded that, despite our laboratory data, plasma LH concentrations in Willow Tits can increase at the same time as in Great Tits and Crested Tits, but that evolution has come to utilize this physiological capacity differently when determining the breeding times for Crested Tits, Willow Tits, and Great Tits.
10.1525/cond.2011.100206|Bird populations occupying managed transitional habitats often have low nest success because optimal habitat conditions are not maintained. In such cases, quantifying determinants of nest survival provides information for habitat maintenance or restoration. Our goal was to determine the current factors affecting nest survival in a managed but declining population of the Florida Scrub-Jay (
10.2307/1369724|We collected blood for allozyme analysis from Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis atricapillus) on the Kaibab Plateau in northern Arizona during 1991-1993 to quantify frequency of extra-pair fertilizations (EPFs). Northern Goshawks are socially monogamous, territorial, noncolonial, synchronous breeders, and their nests are relatively far apart, characteristics that suggest that EPFs should be low. We sampled 103 adults and 122 nestlings from 64 nests. Both putative parents were sampled at 39 nests, but we were able to capture and sample only one putative parent at 25 other nests (84%, female only; 16%, male only). Of the 39 complete families sampled, only 1 of 77 (1.3%) nestlings (or in 1 of 39 clutches, 2.6%) had a genotype not consistent with both parents; the male was excluded as the genetic father of this nestling. When this estimate was adjusted based upon the probability of excluding a putative father when he is not the actual father, the estimate of nestlings sired by EPFs was 9.4% in 1991 and zero in 1992 and 1993. There was no evidence of egg-dumping. Our data suggest that EPFs are infrequent in Northern Goshawks breeding in northern Arizona, a result consistent with characteristics of their mating system.
1370671| Many shorebirds are long-distance migrants, and they depend upon widely spaced stopover sites for refueling during their annual migrations. Two competing hypotheses attempt to explain stopover duration: one predicts departure based on time minimization (time-selection hypothesis) and the other predicts departure on the basis of maximum energy gain (energy-selection hypothesis). During spring 1993, we tested these hypotheses during a mark-resight study of migrant Sanderlings (Calidris alba) at Portsmouth Island, North Carolina. We individually color-banded 204 Sanderlings and used capture-recapture methods to estimate local apparent survival during 10 five-day intervals from late April to mid-June. We found that survival rates were best modeled as a decreasing quadratic time trend; a linear time trend and period-specific survival rates received little support. We found no evidence that either body mass or a simple body condition index better explained survival rates. Our estimates of the 5-day local survival rates of Sanderlings at Portsmouth Island remained relatively high (
10.1525/cond.2012.110006|Brood parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird (
10.1525/cond.2010.090134|To characterize the nonbreeding habitat of Kirtland's Warbler (
1370028| The Picui Dove (Columbina picui) has been considered sexually monochromatic, with females slightly duller than males. This assessment has been based on colors perceived by the human eye. However, birds possess an additional, near-ultraviolet photoreceptor and thus are sensitive to wavelengths humans are not. Measurements of reflectance using spectroradiometry permit an objective determination of the coloration of the birds' plumage and of color differences between the sexes. We here show that the plumage coloration of the Picui Dove is clearly sexually dimorphic. Males were overall brighter than females, and several body regions showed a significant sex difference in spectral shape. These results imply that studies of sexual selection in this and related species should measure sexual dichromatism objectively, and should not rely on human color perception. /// La especie Columbina picui ha sido considerada sexualmente monocromtica, siendo las hembras levemente ms opacas que los machos. Esta conclusin ha sido basada en la percepcin humana del color. Sin embargo, las aves poseen un fotorreceptor adicional en el ultravioleta cercano y son, por lo tanto, sensibles a longitudes de onda que los humanos no perciben. La medicin de la reflectancia por medio de la tcnica de espectrofotometra permite una determinacin objetiva del color del plumaje y de las diferencias de color entre los sexos. En este estudio mostramos que C. picui es claramente sexualmente dicromtica, siendo los machos ms brillantes que las hembras y presentando en algunas regiones del cuerpo diferencias en el espectro de las longitudes de onda reflejadas. Estos resultados demuestran que la determinacin de dicromatismo sexual no debera basarse en la percepcin humana y tiene, adems, implicancias para los estudios de seleccin sexual en esta especie y especies relacionadas. 
1370113| This study combines conventional dietary assessment with stable isotope techniques to describe Great Skua (Stercorarius skua) diet. Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios in feathers of Great Skua chicks collected over three years were analyzed in conjunction with pellet and regurgitate collections. A significant drop in trophic status was detected in 1997, which likely resulted from an increase in herring and mackerel in the diet. These items were almost certainly obtained from a commercial trawler, as evidenced by a significant drop in territorial attendance during the ship's absence. Feathers yielded significantly different  <sup>13</sup>C values among years, and part of this may have been related to a period of enhanced phytoplankton growth during 1996. A combined approach, such as the one described here, is likely to become increasingly useful in elucidating the diets of polyphagous birds. /// Este estudio combina evaluaciones de dieta convencionales con tcnicas de istopos estables para describir la dieta de Stercorarius skua. Analizamos la proporcin de istopos estables de carbono y nitrgeno en las plumas de pichones de S. skua colectadas durante ms de tres aos, en conjunto con colecciones de pellets y regurjitados. Un descenso significativo en la posicin trfica fue detectado en 1997 probablemente como consecuencia del incremento de arenque y caballa en la dieta. Estos tems fueron casi con seguridad obtenidos de un pesquero de arrastre comercial, como lo sugiere la cada significativa de la presencia en el territorio durante la ausencia del barco. Las plumas generaron valores significativamente diferentes de  <sup>13</sup>C entre aos, parte de lo cual puede haber estado relacionado con un perodo de gran crecimiento del fitoplancton durante 1996. Un enfoque combinado como el descripto aqu ser probablemente cada vez ms til para elucidar la dieta de aves polfagas. 
1370698| I studied the social organization of lekking Wire-tailed Manakins (Pipra filicauda) in the Amazonian lowland rainforest of southern Venezuela. Territorial males maintained dispersed territories at lek sites in seasonally flooded forest and were visited by other territorial males, by nonterritorial males, and by immature males. Nonterritorial males became territorial either by establishing a new display area or by inheriting an existent territory. The majority of territorial visitors never engaged in joint displays with territory owners, whereas nonterritorial male visitors attempted displays with the resident bird during more than half of the observed interactions. One-third of the territory owners formed at least periodically close display partnerships with a specific nonterritorial male. Observations during female visits to male pairs and dominant behavior of the resident bird within its territory suggest a hierarchy within display pairs. Dominance relationships, stability in the composition of display pairs, and the possibility for subordinates to inherit a territory indicate that coordinated displays between males may have a cooperative function. However, most female visits were directed to single males, so that joint displays are probably not obligatory for achieving copulations. /// Estudi la organizacin social de leks de Pipra filicauda en la selva amaznica del sur de Venezuela. Los machos territoriales mantenieron territorios dispersos en sitios ubicados en bosque estacionalmente inundado y fueron visitados por otros machos territoriales, machos no-territoriales y machos inmaduros. Los machos no-territoriales se hicieron territoriales al establecer un nuevo sitio de despliegue o al heredar un territorio ya existente. La mayora de los machos territoriales visitantes nunca desplegaron junto al macho propietario del territorio, mientras que los visitantes no-territoriales intentaron desplegarse con el macho residente en ms de la mitad de las interacciones observadas. Un tercio de los machos residentes fue observado formaron periodicamente asociaciones de despliegue con ciertos machos no-territoriales. Observaciones durante las visitas de hembras a parejas de machos y del comportamiento dominante del macho residente dentro de su territorio indicaran una relacin jerarquica dentro de la asociacin de despliegue. Las relacines de dominancia, la estabilidad en la composicin de las asociaciones de desplegar y la posibilidad de que los machos subordinados de heredar un territorio, sugieren que los despliegues coordinados entre machos tendran una funcin cooperativa. Sin embargo, las visitas de las hembras se centraron principalmente en machos solitarios, lo que sugiere que la funcin de las asociaciones de despliegue no son obligatorias para obtener cpulas. 
10.2307/1369659|Philopatry to stopover site and changes in body condition of migrating Reed Warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus were studied in Bet Shean Valley, Israel, where warblers were netted throughout the year. Although the majority of birds were seen only once, the proportion of transients seen twice or more in different years is comparable to the figure for summer residents returning between years, indicating a high degree of philopatry among transients. Transients get heavier with longer duration of stay, up to about 15 days, after which body mass increase appears to level off at about 3 g. Change in body condition, taken to be body mass divided by wing length, also was noted, albeit of less significance. The mean date of arrival in the autumn of birds in their first year was about 20 days later than that of older birds. Reed Warblers use their time effectively to replenish their body mass and improve their condition before starting the dangerous crossing of the Sahara Desert.
10.1525/cond.2010.080060|The Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow (
10.2307/1369851|Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) are coastal seabirds that breed predominantly in old-growth forest throughout the North Pacific. Presently they are classified into two phenotypically distinct subspecies: one in North America (B. m. marmoratus) and one in Asia (B. m. perdix). The Asian form was classified as a separate species in 1811, but was lumped with B. marmoratus during the 20th century. Populations of both types are considered threatened or endangered and information about the extent of genetic differentiation among birds from different sites is required for their conservation. We compared variation in 1,045 base pairs of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene and 39 allozyme loci among Marbled Murrelets and the closely related Kittlitz's Murrelets (B. brevirostris) from throughout the North Pacific. All analyses indicted that North American and Asian Marbled Murrelets are genetically distinct: cytochrome b sequences were highly divergent, fixed allele differences occurred at two allozyme loci, and estimated gene flow was essentially zero. Phylogenetic analyses of cytochrome b sequences and allozymes both provided strong support for a monophyletic relationship among North American Marbled Murrelets and Kittlitz's Murrelets, with Long-billed Murrelets forming the basal lineage. Long-billed and North American Marbled Murrelets clearly represent distinct species by any definition, and must be managed independently. Significant genetic differentiation also was found among both Marbled and Kittlitz's Murrelets from different sites within North America.
10.1525/cond.2013.110181|Marine radar is a tool widely used in the study of bird migration, but in most cases it cannot identify detected objects to species. For this reason airspeed is used as one of the main criteria to separate birdlike from insectlike targets, but this criterion has not been tested outside the temperate regions where it was developed. We used a theoretical approach for calculating minimum-power speeds (
10.2307/1369028|Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) stop at staging areas during migration to replenish fat reserves that fuel long distance flights. We hypothesize that if sandpipers are minimizing time spent en route between wintering areas and breeding grounds, a negative correlation should exist between fat content upon arrival at a staging area and length of stay. We examined the relationship between these two variables at a spring staging area in coastal South Carolina using simple and multiple regression models. Length of stay was independent of estimated fat content at capture after controlling for date in the season. Birds with sufficient energy reserves for long distance flights were as likely to remain on the study area as lean birds. Date in the season showed more influence on stopover time than estimated fat mass at capture. Stopover time decreased with later date, suggesting an increase in the speed of migration as the season progressed. These results show that date is a critical variable influencing Semipalmated Sandpiper migration stopover strategy. Migrants appear to shift their migration priorities with respect to fat stores and stopover time as the season progresses.
10.2307/1368689|Electrophoresis was used to assess the occurrence of extra-pair copulations and intraspecific brood parasitism in the Field Sparrow, Spizella pusilla. Blood samples were taken from 52 nestlings and their putative parents. Results from two polymorphic loci suggested that 19.2% of the nestlings had genotypes inconsistent with at least one putative parent.
1370744| Landscape alterations resulting from urban expansion are among those factors negatively impacting Great Plains grassland birds. The City and County of Boulder, Colorado, manage one of the largest grassland open-space systems in North America, but it is embedded in an area of rapid urban growth. We compared bird count data from the 1980s and 1990s with checklist information about the Boulder grassland avifauna between 1900 and 1937, with the goal of determining what proportion and which species of the historical grassland avifauna are being sustained on Boulder open space. Of 29 native species present in 1900, 22 (76%) appeared on our counts in the 1990s. Formerly common species that disappeared or declined mostly were birds associated with shortgrass prairie, including Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia), Common Nighthawk (Chordeiles minor), Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus), and Lark Bunting (Calamospiza melanocorys). By contrast, species associated with mixed and tallgrass habitats increased or held steady, including Vesper Sparrow (Pooecetes gramineus), Savannah Sparrow (Passerculus sandwichensis), Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum), Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus), and Western Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta). We conclude that municipal open spaces can support populations of many Great Plains grassland birds, but that sustaining species associated with the shortgrass prairie may prove especially challenging. /// La alteracin del paisaje causada por la expansin urbana es uno de los factores que impacta negativamente a las aves de los pastizales de los "Great Plains." La ciudad y el condado de Boulder, Colorado, maneja uno de los sistemas de espacios abiertos de pastizal ms grande de Norteamrica, el cual se encuentra rodeado por un rea de crecimiento urbano. Comparamos datos de conteo de aves de los 1980s y 1990s con informacon de la avifauna de Boulder entre 1900 y 1937, con el propsito de determinar qu proporcin y cuntas especies de las aves de pastizal registradas histricamente se mantuvieron en los espacios abiertos de Boulder. De 29 especies nativas presentes en 1900, 22 (76%) aparecen en nuestros conteos de los 1990s. Especies anteriormente comunes pero que desaparecieron o disminuyeron en cantidad, fueron aves relacionadas principalmente con praderas de pasto corto, incluyendo Athene cunicularia, Chordeiles minor, Lanius ludovicianus y especialmente Calomospiza melanocorys. Por el contrario, especies asociadas a hbitats mixtos o de pasto alto han aumentado o se han mantenido, incluyendo Pooecetes gramineus, Passerculus sandwichensis, Ammodramus savannarum, Dolichonyx oryzivorus y Sturnella neglecta. Concluimos que los espacios abiertos municipales pueden sostener poblaciones de varias especies de aves de pastizal. Sin embargo, ser ms difcil mantener aquellas especies que prefieren praderas de pasto corto, porque las reas continuas y amplias que necesitan, ya no existen. 
10.2307/1368984| Changes in local environmental conditions can cause shifts in the distribution of nonbreeding shorebirds at sites that offer a wide choice of habitats. We assessed effects of water level-related variables and salinity on the distribution of nonbreeding American Avocets (Recurvirostra americana) among eight brackish water impoundments and two intertidal mudflats in coastal South Carolina from mid-January to mid-May, 1991 and 1992. Avocets exhibited nonrandom distribution on three spatial scales: between impoundments and natural tidal areas (impoundment use was greater), among impoundments, and within impoundments. Among all sites, avocet distribution correlated with water level-related variables (P < 0.05), but not salinity. Most avocets used habitats with water 10-17 cm deep and little or no exposed substrate. Furthermore, avocet numbers decreased in impoundments when the sites experienced large fluctuations in water levels (6-10 cm). Analyses conducted at the level of one impoundment supported these results, indicating that macro- (among impoundments) and microhabitat (within impoundments) use was influenced by similar factors. 
10.2307/1369742|We conducted point counts of diurnal raptors on Boulder, Colorado, grasslands for three winters and summers, and compared results to landscape features of the count areas. Four wintering species were scarce on plots that included significant amounts of urban habitat, with a critical landscape threshold at about 5-7% urbanization: Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), Ferruginous Hawk (Buteo regalis), Rough-legged Hawk (B. lagopus), and Prairie Falcon (Falco mexicanus). Counts of the first three species also were positively correlated with proximity of the count plots to the nearest colony of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus). Two breeding species, the Red-tailed Hawk (B. jamaicensis) and Swainson's Hawk (B. swainsoni), were more abundant on plots dominated by lowland hayfields and tallgrass prairies, as opposed to upland mixed and shortgrass prairies. They, along with the ubiquitous American Kestrel (Falco sparverius), were not sensitive to the amounts of urbanization (up to 30%) that occurred in the landscapes sampled. Results of this study suggest that urban open space grasslands can support sizable populations of most diurnal raptors, as long as prey populations persist, but that some species are highly sensitive to landscape urbanization.
10.2307/1370180|I studied the breeding biology of Crested Caracaras (Caracara plancus) in south-central Florida from 1994 through 1996. Reproductive activity was monitored year-round on 30, 48, and 55 territories, respectively. Pairs remained on breeding territories throughout the year and exhibited strong fidelity to the nest site between years; however, annual turnover rate among known breeding individuals was approximately 18%. Territorial occupancy and breeding rates on known occupied territories averaged 95% and 98%, respectively. Observed patterns of breeding activity and nesting success suggested a link between reproduction and precipitation. Active nests were found from September through June, but most nesting activity corresponded with the dry season, November through April. Egg laying in many pairs occurred following an abrupt decline in precipitation in the fall each year. The overall probability of a nest producing at least one independent young was 72%; however, nest success varied throughout the breeding season, being lowest and most variable for early- and late-season nests. Based on 98 nests with complete records, mean clutch size was 2.23 eggs, 61.2% of nestlings fledged successfully, and 48.4% of all eggs laid resulted in independent young. Clutches of three produced the most independent young per breeding attempt in all years. Annual population productivity was enhanced because pairs made more than one nesting attempt per breeding season, either by renesting following an early season failure or by producing second broods. Clutch size, probability of nest success, probability of renesting, and number of fledglings produced per attempt all declined as the breeding season progressed. Mortality factors included weather, predation, chicks falling out of nests, and vehicle collisions with fledglings. Environmental variability may influence spatial and temporal variation in timing of reproduction and nesting success of Crested Caracaras in Florida.
10.2307/1369175|Accurate estimates of dispersal distributions and survival to breeding are essential for estimating gene flow and population demographics, and for testing the predictions of mechanistic models. We derive a method that corrects for the underestimate of dispersal and survival inherent in studies conducted within a finite area. Each dispersal event is weighted by the inverse of the probability of observing that event, calculated by dividing the observable dispersal events of a given distance by all possible dispersal events of that distance. The method takes into account the shape of the study area and suitability of habitat. The method is applied to a twelve-year field study of natal dispersal in Wrentits (Chamaea fasciata) resulting in an increase in the estimate of mean and median dispersal from observed values of 267 and 248 m to corrected values of 375 and 387 m. The correction method also estimates the number of second year birds recruiting to potential breeding territories on and off the study area. Seventy-five of the 799 locally born fledglings recruited onto the study plot (9.3%). We estimate that an additional 101 birds recruited off the study plot, increasing the estimate of yearling survival to recruitment from 9.3% to 21.9% of young fledged. We used a simulation approach to generate testable predictions that validate the assumptions and results of the method. The method is easy to apply, and is easily extended to incorporate greater realism and detail.
10.2307/1370086|We studied the activity of three intestinal membrane-bound digestive enzymes in the Rufous-tailed Plantcutter (Phytotoma rara), one of the smallest species of avian herbivores. We selected the disaccharidases (sucrase and maltase) as indicators of a bird's capability to assimilate carbohydrate, and the oligopeptidase (aminopeptidase-N) as an indicator of a bird's ability to digest protein. Small intestine length was 44.6% shorter than expected based on body mass. Sucrase, maltase, and aminopeptidase-N activities did not differ along the first 80% of the proximal portion of the intestine. Activities of sucrase, maltase, and aminopeptidase-N are probably matching the higher carbohydrate and lower protein concentrations of P. rara's herbivorous diet. The higher and nearly constant enzyme hydrolysis observed along the intestine axis may allow the Rufous-tailed Plantcutter to compensate for and to exploit the abundant and highly diluted plant material, without sacrificing digestive efficiency and nutritional balance.
10.2307/1369252|Bananaquits (Coereba flaveola) in a high density island population with small permanent territories, numerous intraspecific interactions, and polygyny, showed many of the song characteristics expected for species with these life history traits. These song characteristics included high singing rates, relatively large song repertoires (120-340 song types per male); predominance of rare song types; and sequence of song types presented with a pattern approaching immediate variety. Note arrangement within a song was indeterminate and nonrandom; the probabilities of occurrence of a specific note type depended on at least the immediately preceding note. Nine males uttered 10 different note types, of which 9 were shared by all; nonetheless, few song types were shared by neighbors. Different song types were produced primarily by the addition or deletion of notes at the end of a song, whereas the introductory notes were less variable. Males differed from each other in note usage and song types, but produced similar levels of song variation. No consistent relationship was found between singing continuity and song versatility. Songs of two juveniles (4-5 months), a yearling (10-11 months), and older (>1 yr) males indicated that song variation declines with age until at least the second year, when the sequence of notes in a song becomes more predictable.
1370656| Sauer et al. (2004) advocate the use of trend estimation models that adjust counts for differences among observers. We agree that such adjustments are sometimes needed, and we noted (Bart et al. 2003) that they may readily be carried out prior to using the estimation method we described. Including observer covariates, however, is not always necessary and substantially reduces precision, as Sauer et al. (2004) acknowledge. Furthermore, under plausible conditions, including observer covariables introduces bias rather than removing it. In addition, the weighting scheme used in the estimating-equations approach may introduce bias. Our method avoids these sources of bias, is simpler and more flexible than the estimating-equations approach (e.g., carrying out power and sample-size calculations is much easier with our approach), and has smaller standard errors than the estimating-equations approach, especially when counts fluctuate widely. Model-based methods, including the estimating-equations approach, also have advantages, particularly in assessing complex influences on the counts. We recommend that analysts consider both approaches; comparing results obtained with the different methods may be especially informative. /// Sauer et al. (2004) recomiendan el uso de modelos de estimacin de tendencias que ajusten los conteos a las diferencias existentes entre observadores. Nosotros estamos de acuerdo en que dichos modelos podran ser tiles, y sugerimos que estos ajustes pueden incorporarse fcilmente antes de usar el mtodo de estimacin que describimos. Nosotros introdujimos nuestro mtodo porque es ms sencillo y ms flexible que el mtodo que requiere estimar ecuaciones (e.g., realizar clculos de poder estadstico y de tamaos de muestra es mucho ms fcil con nuestro mtodo), y porque el nuestro se desempe mejor que el de estimacin de ecuaciones cuando los conteos fluctuaron ampliamente. Adicionalmente, el procedimiento de pesaje usado en el mtodo de estimacin de ecuaciones podra introducir sesgos, mientras que el procedimiento lineal que nosotros describimos se pesa a s mismo y no es susceptible a este error. Sin embargo, el mtodo de estimacin de ecuaciones tambin ofrece ventajas, particularmente en su habilidad para manejar modelos complejos. Recomendamos que los anlisis consideren ambos procedimientos; comparar los resultados obtenidos mediante ambos mtodos podra ser particularmente informativo. 
10.2307/1369787|We describe the diet of the Magnificent Frigatebird Fregata magnificens at Isla Isabel off the Pacific coast of Mexico based on 158 regurgitates (555 prey items) from males, females, chicks, and juveniles. The diet included 50 species of fishes (21 identified to genus only), 1 species of squid, and 2 species of crustaceans. Diplectum pacificum and Anchoa lucida were the most frequent species of fish in the frigatebird's diet. No differences in prey composition or prey size were found between males and females, but females disgorged 62% more food. This difference mirrors the bigger size (15% larger than males) and larger contribution of females to chick feeding. Flying juveniles consumed prey in different proportions than the adults and disgorged marginally more food. Juveniles may obtain food in different patches than adults and complement this source with maternal feedings, or they may be more likely to regurgitate. Diet composition of males, females, and flying juveniles changed during the 4-month period of this study, but the mass of regurgitates did not change as the breeding season progressed, suggesting that availability of prey species changes over time. Most of the diet of this population probably comes from opportunistic feeding on fisheries, because the variety of fishes disgorged is remarkably similar to the published list of fishes discarded by prawn-fishing boats in the area. If our assumption is true, kleptoparasitism and direct fishing are only marginally represented in the diet of this population.
10.1525/cond.2009.090058|The epaulets of male Red-winged Blackbirds (
4500974| The relationship between nest entrance orientation and latitude among ground-nesting passerines was reviewed using published information. Data were collated for seven North American and European species. Pooling within-species comparisons, there was a clear trend from a preference for north-facing nests at lower latitudes to eastward- or southward-facing nests farther north. Orientations differed significantly in eight of 12 cases for which statistical comparison was possible, means differing in the expected direction in six of these cases. These results highlight how the influence of solar radiation on nest microclimate typically delineates preferred nest orientation in these species, i.e., at lower latitudes, the need for shade results in a preference for northward orientations; at mid latitudes, eastward orientations predominate, reflecting a probable balance between the benefits of warmth in the early morning and shade in the afternoon; while at high latitudes, nests may be oriented southward to gain warmth throughout the day. /// Utilizando informacin publicada, se revis la relacin entre la orientacin de la entrada de los nidos y la latitud en aves paserinas que nidifican en el suelo. Se compilaron datos para siete especies norteamericanas y europeas. Agrupando las comparaciones intraespecficas, existi una tendencia clara a una preferencia por presentar nidos orientados hacia el norte a latitudes ms bajas y hacia el este o hacia el sur a latitudes ms septentrionales. Las orientaciones difirieron significativamente en ocho de los 12 casos en los que fue posible realizar comparaciones estadsticas, y los promedios presentaron diferencias en la direccin esperada en seis de esos casos. Estos resultados resaltan cmo la influencia de la radiacin solar sobre el microclima de los nidos tpicamente influencia la orientacin preferida de los nidos en estas especies. A menores latitudes, la necesidad de contar con sombra lleva a que exista una preferencia por orientar los nidos hacia el norte. A latitudes medias predomina la orientacin hacia el oriente, lo que probablemente refleja un balance entre los beneficios de recibir calor temprano en la maana y sombra en la tarde. A mayores latitudes, los nidos estaran orientados hacia el sur para lograr calentarse a lo largo del da. 
90008457|The Black-backed Woodpecker (
10.2307/1369240|Oilbirds (Steatornis caripensis) of South America are unusual in raising their young exclusively on a fruit pulp diet. In order to determine the ability of Oilbird nestlings to extract energy and nutrients from the diet, we studied their digestive function under laboratory conditions. We used total balance feeding trials to determine the Metabolizable Energy Coefficient (MEC*) and digestibility of the components of an avocado-based diet. Oilbird nestlings extract an average of 80% of dietary lipids and 88% of dietary nitrogen. They also metabolize some of the ingested fiber. Mean MEC* (64%) was similar to that of other frugivores. Nitrogen requirements for maintenance (determined from the regression between nitrogen intake and excretion) were considerably lower (less than 0.75 g N kg
10.2307/1367598|Densities of overwintering Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and Rough-legged Hawks (Buteo lagopus) were examined in relation to densities of meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) on six habitat types. Generally, densities of both raptor species were greater in habitats that had higher densities of meadow voles. However, not all habitats with high numbers of voles had high numbers of the raptors. The amount and distribution of cover also appeared to influence the distribution of the raptors. Hence, patches that support high densities of prey may not be profitable foraging sites for predators because other factors may reduce availability of prey.
10.2307/1368278|Clutch sizes of North American woodpeckers exhibit strong positive latitudinal gradients. There is no overall effect of either estimated first egg date or proximity to the coast on clutch size. However, mean clutch size varies inversely with an index of winter productivity and estimates of breeding densities of all woodpecker species combined; clutch size is uncorrelated with summer productivity. These results support Ashmole's hypothesis that geographic trends in fecundity are determined, at least in part, by seasonality of resources.
4151059| Adult Mariana Common Moorhens (Gallinula chloropus guami) were radiomarked on Guam (n = 25) and Saipan (n = 18) to determine home range, interand intraseasonal space use, and movement patterns among the Mariana Islands of Guam, Saipan, Tinian, and Rota. Birds were tracked throughout the dry and wet seasons in 2000 and 2001. During the dry season, no interisland movements were detected and most birds remained at a single wetland. However, some radio-marked adults on Guam (48) and Saipan (11) dispersed from their capture site to other wetland sites. Inter-and intraisland movements increased during the wet season. Interisland movement from Saipan to Tinian occurred at the onset of the wet season, although no birds were observed moving off Guam. Radiomarked adults on Guam (71) and Saipan (70) dispersed from their capture site to other wetlands. On Guam, moorhens moved farther in the wet season than the dry season. During the wet season frequency of movement among sites was inversely proportional to the average distance between wetlands. Guam moorhens used rivers more often during the wet season. Among nine dispersing adult moorhens captured during the wet season on Fena Reservoir, Guam, 67 returned to Fena Reservoir during the 2001 dry season. Home-range estimates on Guam averaged 3.1  4.8 ha (SD) and did not differ significantly between sexes or seasons. However, during the dry season, females exhibited significantly smaller mean core areas than males. /// Individuos adultos de Gallinula chloropus guami fueron marcados con radio collares en Guam (n = 25) y Saipan (n = 18) para determinar el rango de hogar, el uso del espacio entre y dentro de las estaciones, y los patrones de movimiento entre las Islas Mariana de Guam, Saipan, Tinian y Rota. Las ayes fueron seguidas durante las estaciones seca y hmeda de 2000 y 2001. Durante la estacin seca, no se detectaron movimientos entre islas y la mayora de las ayes permanecieron en un solo humedal. Sin embargo, los adultos con radio-collares en Guam (48%) y Saipan (11 %) se dispersaron desde sus sitios de captura hacia otros humedales. Los movimientos entre y dentro de las islas incrementaron durante la estacin hmeda. Los movimientos entre islas desde Saipan hacia Tinian se produjeron al comienzo de la estacin hmeda, aunque no se observaron ayes saliendo de Guam. Los adultos con radio-collares en Guam (71%) y Saipan (70%) se dispersaron desde sus sitios de captura hacia otros humedales. En Guam, los individuos de G. c. guami se movieron ms lejos durante la estacin hmeda que durante Ia estacin seca. Durante la estacin hmeda, la frecuencia de movimientos entre sitios fue inversamente proporcional a la distancia promedio entre humedales. Los individuos de G. c. guami de Guam utilizaron los rIos con ms frecuencia durante la estacin hmeda. De nueve adultos capturados dispersndose en Fena Reservoir, Guam, durante la estacin hmeda, 67% regresaron a Fena Reservoir durante la estacin seca de 2001. Las estimaciones de rango de hogar en Guam promediaron 3.1  4.8 ha (DE) y no difirieron significativamente entre sexos o estaciones. Sin embargo, durante la estacin seca, las hembras tuvieron reas ncleo significativamente menores que los machos. 
10.2307/1369250|From 1986 to 1988 the breeding biology of an endangered Hawaiian honeycreeper, the Laysan Finch (Telespiza cantans), was studied on the coral island of Laysan in the Hawaiian Archipelago. Laysan Finches are apparently monogamous. Pairs defend mates and nest sites, but not feeding territories. Only the female constructs the nest and incubates. The breeding season is prolonged, but there is yearly variation in onset. Pairs can have more than one clutch per year. The average clutch size was 3.19 eggs. The modal incubation period was 16 days. One-third of all eggs laid disappeared, probably due primarily to intraspecific predation. Eggs hatched asynchronously in the order laid. Chicks fledged at 22-26 days of age, and were dependent for at least three additional weeks. Weather affected reproductive success. A severe storm in 1986 caused almost total mortality of eggs and chicks, regardless of clutch size. Later in that same year, fledglings per nest increased as clutch size increased. During the dry 1987 field season, the onset of breeding was delayed, mean egg weight decreased, the number of malformed eggs increased, and clutches tended to be smaller. Although in good years four-egg clutches produced more fledglings per nest than smaller clutches, in poorer years three-egg clutches produced at least as many or more fledglings per nest than larger clutches. In this fluctuating environment, a modal clutch size of three apparently has been selected for, possibly because it yields the highest average number of offspring per nest during both good and poor years.
4123198| The California Gull (Larus californicus) breeding colony at Mono Lake, California, is the second largest in the world, but its size can fluctuate annually by >45%. We examined six groups of factors that potentially could affect the numbers of pairs nesting each year, including availability of nesting habitat, numbers of potential breeding gulls, environmental conditions along the Pacific coast in the preceding winter, spring conditions at the lake, food availability at the lake, and prior breeding experience. Four variables explained >80% of the variation in the numbers of breeding gulls at Mono Lake between 1987 and 2003: the potential number of four-year-old gulls returning to the lake to breed for the first time, winter coastal conditions associated with the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, density of endemic brine shrimp (Artemia monica) close to the time of egg-laying, and mean temperature in the month before egg-laying. Of the four factors the latter two, which reflect local conditions near the time of egg-laying, had the most profound direct effect on the numbers of breeding gulls. Yearly variation in the snow pack and spring runoff affects brine shrimp numbers through changes in limnological conditions, thus regional climate patterns may indirectly influence gull numbers. /// La colonia reproductiva de la gaviota Larus californicus que se encuentra en el Lago Mono, California, es la segunda ms grande del mundo, pero su tamao puede fluctuar anualmente en ms del 45%. Examinamos seis grupos de factores que podran potencialmente afectar el nmero de parejas que nidifican cada ao, incluyendo la disponibilidad de hbitat de cra, el nmero de gaviotas potencialmente reproductivas, las condiciones ambientales predominantes en la costa Pacfica durante el invierno previo, las condiciones de la primavera en el lago, la disponibilidad local de alimento y la experiencia reproductiva previa. Cuatro variables explicaron ms del 80% de la variacin en el nmero de gaviotas que criaron entre 1987 y 2003: el nmero potencial de individuos de cuatro aos de edad que regresaron al lago a reproducirse por primera vez, las condiciones asociadas con la oscilacin del Pacfico, la densidad del camarn endmico Artemia monica cerca del momento de puesta de los huevos y la temperatura media del mes anterior a la puesta. Los ltimos dos factores, los cuales reflejan las condiciones locales predominantes poco antes de la puesta, tuvieron el efecto directo ms profundo sobre los nmeros de individuos nidificantes. La variacin anual en la cantidad de nieve acumulada y la escorrenta de la primavera afectan la abundancia de A. monica a travs de cambios en las condiciones limnolgicas, por lo que los patrones climticos regionales podran influenciar indirectamente el nmero de gaviotas. 
10.1525/cond.2011.090225|The Mexican Sheartail (
10.2307/1368848| Temperature regulation by six Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) was studied at ambient temperatures (T
4122545| We examined variation in five microscopic plumulaceous (downy) feather characters of eighteen species of dabbling (Anatini) and diving (Aythyini, Mergini) ducks to quantify the differences between these tribes, and to explain how the plumulaceous feather ultrastructure in ducks may be influenced by different ecological requirements. Over 75% of the variation in feather characters among these ducks was explained by the first two components of a principal components analysis (PCA). Component 1 explained 51% of the variation and was positively correlated with the characters that quantified the number of barbules with expanded nodes and the number of expanded nodes on barbules. The microscopic feather characters of dabbling ducks (Anatini) have triangular-shaped, expanded nodes on most proximal barbules, whereas diving ducks (Aythyini and Mergini) lack expanded nodes on some barbules. Anatini also have a greater density of expanded nodes per barbule, wider nodes, shorter distance between expanded nodes, and longer barbule length. Further analysis of node density across all taxa showed that as dive depths increase, the number of expanded nodes per barbule decreases, and in the deepest divers many of the barbules completely lack expanded nodes. The significantly greater density of expanded nodes in dabbling ducks suggests that the downy nodes may function to trap more air. Diving species have fewer expanded nodes, less buoyant plumage, and are more efficient at foraging in deeper water than dabbling ducks. /// Examinamos la variacin que existe en cinco caracteres microscpicos del plumn en 18 especies de patos no zambullidores (Anatini) y zambullidores (Aythyini, Mergini) con el fin de cuantificar las diferencias entre tribus de patos, y para ofrecer una explicacin sobre cmo las ultra-estructuras del plumn estn influenciadas por diferentes requerimientos ecolgicos. En un anlisis de componentes principales (PCA), ms del 75% de la variacin en los caracteres del plumn entre distintas especies de patos fue explicada por los primeros dos componentes. El componente 1 explic el 51% de la variacin y se defini con base en dos caracteres que cuantificaron el nmero de brbulas con nodos expandidos y el nmero de nodos expandidos en las brbulas. Los caracteres microscpicos en aves no zambullidoras (Anatini) exhibieron nodos expandidos en forma triangular en las brbulas prximas, mientras que los zambullidores (Aythyini y Mergini) carecieron de nodos expandidos en algunas de las brbulas. Los no zambullidores tambin presentaron mayor densidad de nodos expandidos por brbula, nodos ms anchos, distancias ms cortas entre nodos expandidos y brbulas ms largas. Un anlisis posterior sobre la densidad de los nodos en todos los taxones demostr que conforme la profundidad de inmersin aumenta, el nmero de nodos expandidos por brbula decrece; en el caso de los zambullidores de profundidad, muchas de las brbulas carecieron completamente de nodos expandidos. La gran densidad de nodos expandidos observada en patos no zambullidores sugiere que los nodos en el plumn podran funcionar para atrapar ms aire (o influir en otras propiedades fsicas). Las especies zambullidoras presentan menos nodos expandidos, plumaje menos flotante y fueron ms eficientes forrajeando a mayores profundidades en comparacin con los patos no zambullidores. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120188|The role of olfaction in birds is poorly understood, in part because of our limited knowledge of signal-transmission mechanisms. Here we evaluate the hypothesis that the secretions of the uropygial gland serve as olfactory signals in birds by testing the prediction that size of the olfactory bulb, a proxy for olfactory ability, covaries positively with the size of the uropygial gland's tuft, a circlet of feathers whose size varies extraordinarily from species to species. The function of this tuft has remained a mystery, but mechanical or protective roles are unlikely on the basis that these feathers are downy and always saturated with gland secretion. These observations instead suggest that the tuft may be involved in trapping the compounds produced by the gland's secretions to facilitate conspecifics' perception of odor. We therefore predicted that the uropygial gland's tuft should be more developed in birds with better capacity to smell. Using a dataset of 29 species of birds of 20 families of nonpasserines, we show that the sizes of the tuft (relative to the uropygial gland) and olfactory bulb (relative to the cerebral hemisphere and body mass) are positively correlated after the confounding effects of colonial breeding and phylogeny are controlled for. This suggests that the tuft may have evolved because of the adaptive benefits of enhancing the transmission of body odors. Additionally, colonial species have tufts larger than those of solitary species, as expected because sociality increases encounter rates and the prevalence of odor-producing bacteria.
10.2307/1368998|I studied nesting habitat of the eastern Wild Turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) in the Arkansas Ozarks during the breeding seasons of 1992 and 1993. Hens selected cover with greater complexity and variability in habitat structure than was generally available. Vegetation in preferred cover types provided substantial concealment at 0-1 m height. Hens selected large patches of habitat (about 80 m in diameter) for nesting. Areas adjacent to nests had characteristics intermediate between nest and non-use sites. Open overstory at nest site and dense understory adjacent to the nest-site areas were apparently used as cues in nest habitat selection early in spring. Parameters correlated with enhanced lateral and overhead concealment of the nest site contributed the most to discrimination between used and non-used sites. Successful and depredated nests were best discriminated when data were considered on a larger spatial scale. Visual obstruction of the nest at 0-1 m height and variable nesting habitat appearance contributed the most to avoiding nest predation. Vegetation characteristics at renest sites were more variable, resulting in habitat appearance more diverse than that of first nest sites. I suggest that nest predation influences habitat selection here and availability of suitable nesting habitat may be a limiting factor for Wild Turkey populations in the Arkansas Ozarks.
10.2307/1370232| Molecular analysis of the present genetic structure of Rock Shags indicates significant population subdivision probably caused by vicariant disjunction associated with the Llanquihue Glaciation (35,000-15,000 ybp). The formerly continuous population was forced into refugia on the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, where they remained without contact for approximately 20,000 years. With amelioration of the climate and consequent glacial retreat, populations recolonized rocky shorelines in the central portion of the present day range and introgressed considerably. The Chubt and Falkland populations serve as genetic sources for the others, whereas the Fuegian population acts as a genetic sink. The population that is resident on Isla Chilo is enigmatic and in nonequilibrium, possibly the result of indirect effects by a yet unsampled population. 
40072460|We investigated molted-feather persistence and aging in a sub-Arctic environment by placing marked feathers at historical Gyrfalcon (
10.2307/1368359|In this study, I documented the existence of a breeding population of Great Gray Owls (Strix nebulosa) in southeastern Idaho and northwestern Wyoming and recorded aspects of this species' breeding biology between 1980 and 1983. Thirty-eight pairs were found; 25 fledged young at least once. Fifteen nests were documented; 40% in old stick nests and 60% on tops of broken-top snags. Nests were frequently reused. Mean date of egg laying was 5 May. Onset of egg laying appeared to be delayed during years of higher snow depth. Mean clutch and brood sizes were 3.3 and 3.0, respectively. Seventy-one percent of the nest attempts were successful. Fledged young moved at a constant rate and direction away from the nest before they were able to fly. Northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides) and voles (Microtus spp.) constituted 57.9% and 34.1% frequency of the diet, respectively. Great Gray Owls nesting near clearcuts had higher percentages of pocket gophers in their diet while those nesting near natural meadows had higher percentages of voles.
10.2307/1368075|Long-eared Owls (Asio otus) nested in extensive stands of grand fir (Abies grandis) in northeastern Oregon. Nineteen of 20 nests were in dwarf-mistletoe brooms (Arceuthobium spp.) in Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) trees. Young were raised at 70% of the nests, and brood size averaged 3.0. The northern pocket gopher (Thomomys talpoides) was the primary prey item both in frequency (56%) and biomass (74%). These observations differ from those reported previously for the Long-eared Owl in North America.
10.2307/1367449|To provide baseline data for estimating the dietary amino acid requirements of molting birds, we measured the amino acid composition, nitrogen and sulfur content, and heat of combustion of the homogenized plumage of six White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii). On the average, the plumage contained 15.22% nitrogen, 3.14% sulfur, and 0.86% ash. Of the 17 amino acids measured, serine, proline, cystine/2, and glycine (in that order) were most abundant, comprising 46 mol% of the hydrolysate. Nonessential amino acids predominated (68 mol%). Cystine/2 contributed 11 mol%. Variation of amino acid composition among the plumages of the six birds was small (coefficient of variation = 2-7%). The heat of combustion of the homogenized plumages was 21.69 kJ/g of dry mass. Although exact quantitative comparisons are not possible, the amino acid composition of White-crowned Sparrow plumage in general parallels that of other species. Its cystine/2 and sulfur content, however, are noticeably greater than that reported for any other species thus far examined (primarily pale and domesticated).
1370751| We compared American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) soaring flight times and altitudes to model-produced estimates of thermal depth and intensity. These data showed that pelican soaring flight was confined to the thermal layer, and that the vertical extent of the soaring flight envelope increased with increases in thermal depth. Pelicans soaring cross-country between foraging and breeding sites flew mainly within the middle of the thermal layer, regardless of its depth. In contrast, pelicans engaged in wandering flight near foraging sites typically confined their flight to the lower thermal layer. Pelicans soaring cross-country likely flew higher in the thermal layer to maximize cross-country soaring performance, while pelicans soaring locally presumably flew lower because additional altitude was unneeded for gliding short distances. An analysis of pelican flight times relative to model-produced estimates of thermal intensity suggested that pelicans began soaring as soon as sufficiently strong thermals developed daily. /// Comparamos el tiempo y la intensidad del vuelo planeado del pelcano Pelecanus erythrorhynchos con estimaciones modeladas de la profundidad e intensidad de las corrientes trmicas. Estos datos mostraron que el planeo de los pelcanos estuvo confinado a la capa trmica y que la extensin vertical del rea de planeo increment con incrementos en la profundidad de la corriente trmica. Los pelcanos que planearon a campo traviesa entre los sitios de alimentacin y cra volaron principalmente en el medio de la capa trmica, independientemente de su profundidad. En contraste, los pelcanos que vagaron cerca de los sitios de alimentacin tpicamente restringieron sus vuelos a la parte inferior de la capa trmica. Los pelcanos que planearon a campo traviesa probablemente volaron ms alto en la capa trmica para maximizar el desempeo del planeo, mientras que los que planearon a nivel local presumiblemente volaron ms bajo porque no necesitaron mayor altitud para planear por distancias cortas. Un anlisis del tiempo de vuelo de los pelcanos con relacin a las estimaciones modeladas de intensidad de las corrientes trmicas sugiri que los pelcanos comenzaron a planear diariamente tan pronto como aparecieron corrientes trmicas suficientemente fuertes. 
10.2307/1369638|We monitored activity patterns of Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) on a near-daily basis using audio-visual surveys during three breeding seasons at five forest stands in the Oregon Coast Range. Three measures of activity were recorded: number of daily detections, number of daily vocalizations, and duration of daily activity. Each measure was highly variable within and among stands and years, and we recorded greater variability than has been previously reported for this species. The three measures of activity were strongly correlated within a day at each survey station, but correlative relationships at temporal and spatial scales greater than this were inconsistent. Activity varied greatly from one day to the next during all portions of the breeding season, and we did not identify any month when variability in activity was consistently higher or lower than any other month. Multivariate analyses revealed that weather and date variates explained little of the variability in daily activity. Given the extreme levels of variability in Marbled Murrelet activity and our lack of understanding as to which factors drive that variability, it is critical that conclusions about activity or behavior not be drawn from data sets not specifically designed to answer the questions of interest.
10.2307/1368534|California Gulls (Larus californicus) breeding in the Great Basin may encounter diurnal temperatures sufficient to cause chick mortality. Although nesting may occur in a variety of habitats, at Mono Lake, California, and elsewhere gulls prefer fairly open areas with irregular terrain near the shore of islands. These areas are relatively cool, but their major advantages seem to be promoting the isolation from and early detection of predators, providing hiding places for small chicks, and offering escape routes for large young and adults. Predation is a continual danger, whereas periods of high temperatures sufficient to cause mortality are too brief and irregular to have a dominant influence on long-term breeding success and thus on habitat selection.
1370648| I used six nuclear microsatellites to assess rates of intraspecific brood parasitism and extra-pair paternity in relationship to conspecific density in 218 offspring from 44 broods of Loggerhead Shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus). I also estimated statistical power associated with these markers for each parentage test and suggest a method for adjusting power estimates when individuals are incompletely genotyped. No offspring were the result of intraspecific brood parasitism. Eight offspring from five families (4% of all offspring; 14% of families) were sired by extra-pair fertilization. Average exclusionary power was 0.94 when adjusted to account for incomplete genotyping. Assuming a 1% genotyping error rate, this power drops to 0.91. This is the first genetic assessment of parentage in a wild population of Loggerhead Shrikes. /// Utilic seis microsatlites nucleares para evaluar las tasas de parasitismo intra-especfico de la nidada y paternidad extra-pareja con relacin a la densidad de individuos coespecficos en 218 cras provenientes de 44 nidadas de Lanius ludovicianus. Tambin estim el poder estadstico asociado con estos marcadores para cada prueba de paternidad y sugiero un mtodo para ajustar las estimaciones de poder cuando el genotipo de los individuos no ha sido determinado completamente. Ninguna cra fue el resultado de parasitismo intra-especfico de la nidada. Ocho cras provenientes de cinco familias (4% de todas las cras; 14% de las familias) fueron engendradas por medio de fertilizaciones extra-pareja. El poder de exclusin promedio fue de 0.94 cuando fue ajustado para tener en cuenta los genotipos incompletos. Suponiendo que la tasa de error de evaluacin genotpica es del 1%, este poder desciende a 0.91. Esta es la primera evaluacin gentica de parentesco en una poblacin silvestre de L. ludovicianus. 
10.2307/1368392|We examined availability and use of arthropods by Wilson's Warblers (Wilsonia pusilla) and Lincoln's Sparrows (Melospiza lincolnii) to determine whether all arthropods selected by these birds were equally preferred. Preferences were identified by comparing proportional availability of arthropods in willows to their proportional use by birds foraging in willows. Actively foraging birds were collected during the breeding seasons of 1984 and 1985 in montane riparian zones located on the Medicine Bow National Forest in southeastern Wyoming. Arthropods were sampled at bird foraging sites by applying a pyrethrin-based fogacide to the willows. We identified 115 families of arthropods in our spray samples from willows over the two breeding seasons. Of these families, 53 and 54 were identified in warbler and sparrow diets, respectively. Warblers were selective in the sizes of prey they consumed, with smaller prey (1 to 3 mm) being underrepresented in their diets for five of the eight arthropod groups considered. We employed a ranking procedure (PREFER) to investigate bird species' preferences among 10 arthropod food groups. The group ranked highest for both warblers and sparrows was Coleoptera, of which beetles with soft elytra were a major component. Of the remaining groups, arthropods that ranked high in preference for warblers were noncryptic and patchy in distribution, while those that ranked high for sparrows tended to be cryptic and more uniformly distributed. We suggest that the foraging strategies of Wilson's Warblers and Lincoln's Sparrows, and arthropod behavior, morphology, and distribution explain the differences we detected in proportional availability and use of arthropods by these birds.
10.2307/1367978|Records of vegetation density and seasonal bird species richness, densities, and diversities for 78 line transects along the lower Colorado River were examined to: (1) isolate seasonal and spatial patterns of avian community variation; (2) determine relationships between patterns of attributes in avian communities and vegetation characteristics; and (3) evaluate effects of different spatial levels of investigation. Principal components analysis of foliage density and diversity measures revealed two important, independent patterns of variation among transects. Avian density was usually independent of, and more regularly arranged than, diversity within each season. Regression of principal components, derived from principal components analysis of avian community attributes on vegetation components, showed that avian density was more closely related to variation in the vegetation than was avian diversity. Avian community attributes outside the breeding season were more highly correlated with the vegetation measures than were those for communities during the breeding season. Vegetation density and diversity were both important predictors of avian community measures at the habitat level but accounted for little of the variation in bird communities at the transect level. Additional principal components analyses using the combined avian and vegetation data evaluated at the habitat level produced results similar to those found at the transect level. When we analyzed vegetation and avian community variables together, results were similar to previous findings. The additional studies reinforced the findings of the first analyses, although when evaluating habitat data, avian and vegetation variables were more closely associated than when the analysis was conducted using a more local spatial scale. Several generalizations were possible. For example, common summer visitors in mature cottonwood-willow (Populus fremontii-Salix gooddingii) habitats differed ecologically from species visiting structurally simpler cottonwood-willow habitats in summer. The general similarities among habitats when considering resident avian species contrasted with the differences when species present only part of the year were considered.
10.2307/1369802|House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) nestlings were screened for ectoparasites; the most common ectoparasite was Pellonyssus reedi, a haematophagous mite. Parasite load was used to determine whether: ectoparasites have an effect on chick body mass prior to fledging, relative chick body mass is a within-brood predictor of relative parasite load, and parasite load per brood correlates with brood size. There was a negative correlation between parasite load and chick body mass, indicating that ectoparasites can reduce the quality of host offspring. Within broods, a chick's body mass was not related to its parasite load relative to its siblings' loads, suggesting that these ectoparasites do not preferentially target particular nestlings based on size. No relationship was found between brood size and total parasite load; thus, there was no evidence that within-nests, mite population size is limited by brood size.
1370652| The Northern Hawk Owl (Surnia ulula) remains one of the least-studied birds in North America. Although hawk owls use burned forest, reports of this association have been primarily anecdotal and outside the breeding season. We present the first comparison of hawk owl relative abundance between burned and unburned conifer-dominated boreal forest in North America. Hawk owls were detected only in postfire forest and were not detected in nearby unburned coniferous forest. There was a significant negative exponential relationship between hawk owl abundance and burn age, suggesting that burns were only suitable up to 8 years postfire. A conservative estimate of a peak in breeding density was three nests per 100 km<sup>2</sup> for a 2-year-postfire forest. Wildfire and newly burned forests may be an important feature for hawk owls in the Nearctic boreal forest. This raises the question whether management of this species through improved forestry techniques is a sufficient conservation measure. /// El bho Surnia ulula es una de las aves de Norte Amrica que ha sido menos estudiada. Aunque estos bhos utilizan bosques quemados, los reportes de esta asociacin han sido principalmente anecdticos y han tenido lugar fuera de la poca reproductiva. En este estudio presentamos la primera comparacin de la abundancia relativa de S. ulula entre ambientes quemados y no quemados en bosques boreales de Norte Amrica dominados por conferas. Los bhos fueron detectados nicamente en bosques quemados y no se encontraron en bosques de conferas cercanos que no haban sido quemados. Existi una relacin exponencial negativa significativa entre la abundancia de S. ulula y la edad de las quemas, lo que sugiere que los bosques quemados slo fueron adecuados para la especie hasta ocho aos despus del fuego. Una estimacin conservadora del pico en la densidad reproductiva fue de tres nidos por 100 km<sup>2</sup> para un bosque luego de dos aos de ser quemado. Los fuegos naturales y los bosques recientemente quemados podran ser importantes para S. ulula en los bosques boreales Nerticos. Esto lleva a considerar si el manejo de esta especie a travs de tcnicas forestales mejoradas es una medida de conservacin suficiente. 
3247778| The estimation of dispersal and movement is important to evolutionary and population ecologists, as well as to wildlife managers. We review statistical methodology available to estimate movement probabilities. We begin with cases where individual birds can be marked and their movements estimated with the use of multisite capture-recapture methods. Movements can be monitored either directly, using telemetry, or by accounting for detection probability when conventional marks are used. When one or more sites are unobservable, telemetry, band recoveries, incidental observations, a closed- or open-population robust design, or partial determinism in movements can be used to estimate movement. When individuals cannot be marked, presence-absence data can be used to model changes in occupancy over time, providing indirect inferences about movement. Where abundance estimates over time are available for multiple sites, potential coupling of their dynamics can be investigated using linear cross-correlation or nonlinear dynamic tools. /// La estimacin de la dispersin y el movimiento es importante para los eclogos evolutivos y de poblaciones, as como tambin para los encargados del manejo de vida silvestre. Revisamos la metodologa estadstica disponible para estimar probabilidades de movimiento. Empezamos con casos donde aves individuales pueden ser marcadas y sus movimientos estimados con el uso de mtodos de captura-repactura para mltiples sitios. Los movimientos pueden ser monitoreados ya sea directamente, usando telemetra o teniendo en cuenta las probabilidades de deteccin cuando se usan marcas convencionales. Cuando uno o ms sitios no pueden ser observados, se puede estimar el movimiento usando telemetra, recuperacin de anillos, observaciones circunstanciales, un diseo poblacional robusto cerrado o abierto, o determinismo parcial de los movimientos. Cuando los individuos no pueden ser marcados, se pueden usar datos de presencia-ausencia para modelar los cambios en el tiempo de la ocupacin, brindando inferencias indirectas sobre los movimientos. Cuando las estimaciones de abundancia a lo largo del tiempo estn disponibles para varios sitios, se puede investigar la interrelacin potencial de sus dinmicas usando correlaciones cruzadas lineales o herramientas para dinmica no lineal. 
3247759| We report the oldest fossil condor (Vulturidae) from South America and the first from the Pisco Formation (14.0-2.0 Ma) of Peru, described herein as Perugyps diazi new genus and species. The Pisco Formation, exposed on the southern coast of Peru, has produced well-preserved and abundant marine and terrestrial vertebrate fossils from the late Miocene/early Pliocene (6.0-4.5 Ma) Montemar and Sacaco Sur localities, from where P. diazi was recovered. The new condor adds to our knowledge on the evolution and biogeographic distribution of New World vultures. The age of this new species supports the hypothesis that condors probably evolved in North America and entered South America by the late Miocene/early Pliocene. We believe it is likely that the first condors to reach South America probably did so via a coastal corridor along the western side of the Andes where they became part of the diverse coastal fauna in southern Peru. /// Se reporta el cndor ms antiguo de Amrica del Sur y el primero para l Formacon Pisco (14-2 Ma), y se describe como Perugyps diazi. De esta formacin, situada en la costa sur del Per, provienen gran cantidad de aves marinas en muy buen estado de conservacin, en especial de los niveles Montemar y Sacaco Sur (Mioceno tardo/Plioceno temprano, 6.0-4.5 Ma), justamente de donde procede Perugyps. Este nuevo cndor aade importante informacin sobre la evolucin y distribucin biogeogrfica de estas aves, pues su edad apoya la hiptesis de que los cndores probablemente evolucionaron en Amrica del Norte y entraron a Amrica del Sur entre el Mioceno tardo y el Plioceno temprano. Sugerimos que su llegada pudo realizarse por el corredor costero del lado occidental de los Andes, en donde pasaron a formar parte de la diversa fauna del sur del Per. 
10.2307/3247724| The Black Oystercatcher (Haematopus bachmani) is a year-round resident with an extensive range from southern California to Alaska. Because of the size of this range (about 28 of latitude) and its simple, nearly linear shape, we hypothesized that the species would exhibit adaptive geographic variation in nesting phenology and clutch size. Museum egg collections provided information for the entire nesting range, while field observations on about 40 breeding pairs on Cleland Island, British Columbia, provided information on local variation. Nesting in Alaska starts about 15 days later than in southern California but trends in between are irregular. Birds on the exposed outer coasts of British Columbia and Washington start to nest about a week later than those in the San Juan Islands and Strait of Juan de Fuca. On Cleland Island the onset and duration of breeding were similar in 1982 and 1983, and individual females laid similar-sized clutches at similar times in both years. There is no measurable geographic variation in duration of nesting or in clutch size. Clutch size averages 2.4 across the nesting range and was about 2.1 on Cleland Island from 1970 to 1983. Initial and replacement clutches on Cleland Island are similar in size but, in museum samples from throughout the range, three-egg clutches were collected later than two-egg clutches. The weak geographic trends in timing of breeding and their absence in clutch size were unexpected. Our findings may reflect (1) moderate seasonal and latitudinal fluctuations in the species' year-round coastal marine environment and (2) clutch size that is limited primarily by the optimal working capacity of parents. Research topics that can explore these possibilities include: proximate influences on breeding; heritability and individuality of breeding attributes; breeding energetics; and spatiotemporal variation in trophic ecology. 
10.2307/1368105|We studied the ecology and behavior of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) and Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) on their wintering grounds in Jamaica during 3 years, 1986-1989. Winter densities were comparable to (American Redstart) or slightly greater than (Black-throated Blue Warbler) those recorded for these species in breeding areas. Males, females, first-year and older individuals of each species occurred within the same habitats and study areas, with no evidence of intraspecific habitat segregation. Individuals of both sexes occupied territories, which were maintained by displays, vocalizations (chip notes), and stereotyped agonistic interactions. Territories were defended against conspecifics of the same sex and frequently of the opposite sex, although those of males and females sometimes overlapped, especially in the Black-throated Blue Warbler. Both sexes of each species responded aggressively to playbacks of breeding song/chip tapes and to decoys. Territories were occupied throughout the winter period, with most individuals of both species remaining through the winter within <50 m of where they were captured, marked, and observed in October-early November. Overwinter survival was high: 80% of 124 redstarts and 66% of 53 black-throated blues color-marked in early winter (October-November) were still alive and present on territory in late winter (March-April). Individually marked birds disappearing during the winter were almost invariably replaced, usually by new (unmarked) individuals, indicating competition for territories and possibly the presence of floaters. This latter finding, coupled with those of strong overwinter site attachment and intense territorial behavior, suggests that events in winter are important in the population dynamics of these migrant species.
1370355| We report a significant male bias in dawn and dusk nest visitations of breeding, radio-marked Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) during the chick rearing period in Desolation Sound, British Columbia, Canada, from 1998-2000. Overall visitation rates of males during chick rearing were 1.3 times greater than those of females. Dusk visitation rates by males with active nests were 1.8 times greater than those of females. Male visitation rates were similar between early and late chick rearing, both within and among individuals. However, female visitation rates during late chick rearing were significantly lower than female rates early in rearing, both within and between individuals. In addition, between-sex comparisons of nest visitation during early and late chick rearing showed significant reductions in female effort relative to males, only during late chick rearing. These results suggest that male birds may provision chicks more often than females, especially during the last half of chick rearing. These findings offer a behavioral explanation for the annual male bias of birds flying inland during the chick rearing period at Theodosia Inlet in Desolation Sound from 1994-1999. Although female-biased provisioning has been documented in several species, male-biased provisioning has not been widely reported in other alcids. /// Presentamos evidencia sobre un sesgo hacia los machos en las visitas a nidos efectuadas al amanecer y el crepsculo durante la crianza de pichones, en individuos marcados con radios en Desolation Sound, Columbia Britnica, Canad, entre 1998-2000. La tasa de visitas de los machos fue 1.3 veces mayor que la de las hembras. La tasa de visitas de los machos al crepsculo con nidos activos fue 1.8 veces mayor que las hembras. La tasa de visitas de los machos fue constante a travs del perodo de crianza, tanto para un mismo individuo como entre individuos. Sin embargo, la tasa de visitas de las hembras fue significativamente menor al final que al inicio de la crianza, tanto para un mismo individuo como entre individuos. Adems, la tasa de visitas de las hembras fue menor que la de los machos al final de la crianza. Estos resultados sugieren que los machos abastecen a los pichones en mayor medida que las hembras, especialmente en la ltima parte de la crianza. Asimismo, los resultados ofrecen una explicacin conductual para la dominancia anual de machos volando tierra adentro durante la crianza en Theodosia Inlet, Desolation Sound, entre 1994-1999. En pocas ocasiones se ha descripto abastecimiento paternal en los lcidos, donde principalmente las hembras se encargan del abastecimiento. 
1370551| Eggs (n = 367) collected from wild Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus anatum) nests between 1976 and 1990 in Colorado and New Mexico were artificially incubated and hatched. We retrospectively examined these data for variation in egg length, breadth, and initial mass of hatchlings to resolve questions about relationships among egg size, chick size, and sex; and egg size related to first and second clutches and years. Egg length and breadth were significantly related to chick mass at hatching. Neither egg size nor hatchling mass were related to sex. Egg breadth slightly increased and then decreased over the years eggs were collected, which possibly reflects a re-established and then aging wild falcon population or other environmental variation. We also evaluated clutch sex ratios relative to theory based on sexual size dimorphism and local resource competition. Sex ratios did not significantly differ from 1:1 within first or second clutches separately or when combined. Thus, Peregrine Falcons in this population apparently did not skew clutch sex ratios in accordance with local resource competition or Fisherian theory. /// Huevos (n = 367) colectados de nidos silvestres de halcones peregrinos (Falco peregrinus anatum) entre 1976 y 1990 en Colorado y New Mexico fueron incubados artificialmente hasta eclosionar. Examinamos esos datos retrospectivamente en cuanto a la variacin en la longitud y ancho del huevo y el peso inicial de los pichones para contestar preguntas sobre las relaciones entre tamao del huevo, tamao del pichn y sexo, y entre el tamao del huevo con relacin a primeras y segundas nidadas y aos. La longitud y el ancho del huevo estuvieron significativamente relacionados con la masa del pichn al eclosionar. El tamao del huevo y el peso del pichn no estuvieron relacionados con el sexo. El ancho de los huevos aument ligeramente y luego disminuy a travs de los aos en que los huevos se colectaron, lo que posiblemente refleja una poblacin silvestre de halcones re-establecida y posteriormente senescente, u otro tipo de variacin ambiental. Tambin evaluamos la proporcin de sexos en las nidadas con relacin a la teora basada en el dimorfismo sexual de tamao y la competencia local por recursos. Las proporciones de sexos no difirieron significativamente de 1:1 entre primeras o segundas nidadas separadamente o de forma combinada. Por tanto, los halcones peregrinos en esta poblacin aparentemente no sesgaron la proporcin de sexos en sus nidadas de acuerdo a la competencia local por recursos o a la teora Fisheriana. 
4096518| We used radio-transmitters to study year-round patterns of colony attendance and foraging trip duration of Shy Albatrosses (Thalassarche cauta) at Albatross Island (1995-1997) and Pedra Branca (1997), Tasmania, Australia. Colony activity was largely diurnal, and foraging trip, incubation, and brooding shift durations were relatively short throughout the breeding season, consistent with foraging just a few hundred kilometers from the colonies. Shift durations decreased from 2.9 days early in incubation to an average of 24 hr during brooding. Foraging trip durations were similarly short in the first month post-brooding, but then doubled thereafter to approximately 2 days. Attendance and foraging-trip characteristics were similar between years and at both breeding sites. Both early in incubation and late in chick-rearing, females tended to undertake longer foraging trips than males. There was also an increased probability of failure if females spent as much time on the nest as males during incubation. Outside the breeding season, adults were relatively sedentary. Successful parents from Albatross Island forage off southeast Australia for just nine weeks before returning to spend much of the nonbreeding period attending the colony. The close proximity of the feeding and breeding grounds and near year-round presence of adults at the colony reflects locally favorable foraging conditions. Operating within this environment. Shy Albatrosses exhibit breeding, foraging, and provisioning characteristics that represent an extreme within the Diomedeidae. /// Usamos radio-transmisores para estudiar los patrones anuales de presencia en la colonia y la duracin de los viajes de forrajeo de Thalassarche cauta en Albatross Island (1995-1997) y en Pedra Branca (1997), Tasmania, Australia. La actividad de la colonia fue mayormente diurna, y los viajes de forrajeo, la incubacin y la duracin de los turnos para empollar fueron relativamente cortos durante la estacin de cra, lo que es consistente con que las aves forrajean a unos pocos cientos de kilmetros de la colonia. La duracin de los turnos disminuy de 2.9 das al principio de la incubacin a un promedio de 24 hr durante el perodo de empollamiento. La duracin de los viajes de forrajeo fue similarmente corta en el primer mes luego del perodo de cra, pero despus se duplic hasta aproximadamente 2 das. Las caractersticas de la presencia en la colonia y de los viajes de forrajeo fueron similares entre aos y en ambos sitios de cra. Las hembras tendieron a realizar viajes de forrajeo ms prolongados que los machos tanto a principios de la incubacin como a fines del perodo de cra de los pichones. Tambin hubo una probabilidad mayor de fracaso si las hembras permanecieron en los nidos durante el perodo de incubacin la misma cantidad de tiempo que los machos. Fuera del perodo de cra, los adultos fueron relativamente sedentarios. Los padres exitosos de Albatross Island forrajearon en el mar del sudeste de Australia solamente durante nueve semanas antes de regresar a pasar gran parte del perodo no reproductivo en la colonia. La proximidad de los sitios de alimentacin y de cra y la presencia casi completa a lo largo del ao de los adultos en la colonia reflejan condiciones locales favorables de forrajeo. En sintona con el ambiente, T. cauta presenta caractersticas reproductivas, de alimentacin y de aprovisionamiento que son extremas entre los Diomedeidae. 
10.2307/1369259| We studied hunting ranges and habitat requirements of 27 radio-tagged Merlins (Falco columbarius) breeding in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan from May to July, 1987-1990. Mean hunting range sizes of resident (hatched in the city) and immigrant (hatched outside the city) males were 6.3  1.3 km
10.2307/1368310| In Costa Rica's humid, Caribbean lowlands, we used the doubly-labeled water (DLW) technique to measure field metabolic rate (FMR) and water influx of free-living Crowned Woodnymphs (Thalurania colombica) (mean mass = 4.90 g) and Bronze-tailed Plumeleteers (Chalybura urochrysia) (mean mass = 7.23 g). FMR averaged 37.9 kJ/day in woodnymphs (n = 9) and was 57.9 kJ/day in a single plumeleteer. The former value is 26% higher than expected from the birds' mass, based on other DLW studies. Water influx averaged 2,392 ml/(kgday) in woodnymphs (n = 12) and 2,001 ml/(kgday) in plumeleteers (n = 2). These are the highest water flux rates measured for any bird and are equivalent to turning over, respectively, 366% and 304% of the birds' total body water content each day. 
10.2307/1370474|We studied mechanisms underlying poor breeding performance in a color-banded population of Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) in coastal British Columbia for four years. Only 21% of sparrow nests produced fledglings. The main causes of nest failure were complete predation (42% of nests), and abandonment after parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) coincided with partial predation (34%). Increasingly fewer sparrow young fledged as the number of cowbird eggs per nest increased, but nests with up to five cowbird eggs fledged cowbirds. Many nests produced only cowbird fledglings. Annual production of recruits was seven times below the annual rate of adult disappearance. Nevertheless, Song Sparrow numbers at the study site remained stable due to immigration. When reproductive success was estimated in the absence of cowbird parasitism, production of young remained poor. Thus, high levels of predation on nest contents explained the poor breeding performance. Experiments with dummy Song Sparrow eggs in Song Sparrow nests suggested that mice, shrews, and medium-sized birds were the principal egg predators, but these small mammals probably were not frequent predators on Song Sparrow eggs. Damage by bird predators coincided with the laying season of the cowbird, suggesting that cowbirds contributed to predation on sparrow nests. The study site is a population sink for Song Sparrows because of high rates of nest predation and brood parasitism. These ecological factors may be contributing to the significant long-term decline (1966-1994) of the Song Sparrow in British Columbia and throughout Canada.
10.2307/1369717|Forty pairs of breeding Red-faced Warblers (Cardellina rubrifrons) were observed in 1992 and 1993 on the Mogollon Rim, Arizona. Intrusions by extra-pair males, interactions between pair members, and other pair interaction behaviors were recorded. The majority of intrusions occurred during the building stage of the nesting cycle. Males responded to intrusions during nest building by decreasing intra-pair distance. Males maintained shorter intra-pair distances by following the female when she initiated movements and by not initiating pair movements themselves. Intra-pair distances were as short or shorter during the incubation period as during nest building, and were shorter during incubation than during egg laying. Males continued to follow females beyond the expected fertile period. Possible explanations for continued mate following include: males guard their mates against predators, males guard their paternity for future nesting attempts, and males respond to extra-pair male intrusions, which continue during incubation.
10.2307/1368340| We investigated the claim that the furcular fat deposits of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) contain brown adipose tissue (BAT) in winter. Electron micrographs show that mitochondrial densities in these deposits are substantially lower than those in mammalian BAT. Protein-specific activities of the catabolic enzymes citrate synthase (CS) and -hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (HOAD) in furcular fat are only 25% and 39%, respectively, of the corresponding values for pectoralis muscle of chickadees in January. The differences between chickadee tissues are more marked when activities are compared in birds collected later in winter (February to March). Catabolic capacities of furcular fat in either winter sample are an even smaller fraction of those documented in BAT from winter-acclimatized deer mice (Peromyscus leucopus). Near-maximal stores of furcular fat in chickadees differ from depleted ones in having lower mitochondrial densities and fewer lipid droplets, as well as lower protein concentrations and lower protein-specific CS and HOAD activities. The histological characteristics and low catabolic capacities of furcular fat in chickadees suggest that this tissue is an unlikely site of intense thermogenesis. We question the claim (Oliphant 1983) that it is a functional equivalent of mammalian BAT. 
10.2307/1367663|Female Fiordland Crested Penguins (Eudyptes pachyrhynchus) lay a clutch of two eggs, the second being significantly larger than the first. To investigate this disparity, I gave experimental birds a single oral dose of 300 mg Sudan black B dye. This was deposited in their yolks over a period of several days, and helped to reveal the timing of egg formation events. The yolks were pale yellow and lacked marked structure except for the dye band. Staining the yolks with dichromate revealed faint daily rings. For both first and second eggs, mean time for yolk formation was 16 days (range: 14-18 days). The larger, second eggs contained higher proportions of albumen and lower proportions of yolk than first eggs; shell proportions were constant. During the female's fasting period of egg formation, the amount of nutrients transferred from tissues to eggs was not large compared with body reserves. The mean interval between date of yolk completion and laying was seven days (range: four to nine days). The relative positions of the dye bands showed that the first yolk grew for several days before the second yolk began to grow.
10.2307/1370078|It has been hypothesized that proximity to edges, timing of nesting, nest concealment or in-accessibility, working singly or in concert, may explain variable nesting success of birds, but results have been mixed. I tested these hypotheses by determining fates and measuring nest-site features of 233 Ruddy Duck (Oxyura jamaicensis) nests near Minnedosa, Manitoba, Canada, during summers of 1994-1996. Mayfield nesting success averaged 41%. Discriminant function analysis was unable to segregate successful and destroyed nests. Results suggest that nesting success for this population of Ruddy Ducks is unpredictable, probably because a diversity of predators precluded choice of safe nest sites.
10.2307/1367494|North American Pine Grosbeaks (Pinicola enucleator) vary geographically in two of their call notes. Variation is greatest in the location calls that communicate between individuals at great distances. Birds of the taiga and coastal Alaska give whistled calls, of which four categories have been identified. Western montane and Queen Charlotte Islands birds give more complex, modulated calls, which vary greatly among localities. Taiga and montane birds do not approach playback of each other's calls, though wild birds usually respond quickly to playback of their own calls. Cross-fostering experiments show that the location call can be entirely learned in the first weeks of life, suggesting that the observed variation in nature arose in association with isolation of small, possibly founder, populations. No selective agent leading to call variation has been identified, but vegetation structure is discounted as a factor.
10.1525/cond.2010.090053|Quantifying patterns of nest survival is a first step toward understanding why birds decide when and where to breed. Most studies of nest survival have relied on generalized linear models (GLM) to explore these patterns. However, GLMs require assumptions about the models' structure that might preclude finding nonlinear patterns in survival data. Generalized additive models (GAM) provide a flexible alternative to GLMs for estimating linear and nonlinear patterns in data. Here we present a comparison of GLMs and GAMs for explaining variation in nest-survival data. We used two different model-selection criteria, the Bayes (BIC) and Akaike (AIC) information criteria, to select among simple and complex models. Our study was focused on the analysis of Red-winged Blackbird (
10.2307/1370278| Bridled Titmice (Baeolophus wollweberi) and Juniper Titmice (B. ridgwayi) occur sympatrically in southeastern Arizona, with Bridled Titmice preferring habitats that are more heavily vegetated, moister, and cooler than those occupied by Juniper Titmice. To assess whether these differences in habitat preference have physiological correlates, we measured the oxygen consumption, evaporative water loss, and body temperature of post-breeding titmice at ambient temperatures between 24-44C. Bridled Titmice were less tolerant of heat than Juniper Titmice and had significantly higher rates of metabolic heat production and evaporative water loss, but not body temperature, at ambient temperatures above 40C. These differences were entirely attributable to the Bridled Titmouse's smaller body size (10 versus 15 g), and the differences vanished when rates were expressed per unit metabolic mass (mass raised to either the 2/3 or 3/4 power). Within the thermoneutral zone, the rate of evaporative water loss (EWL) was significantly lower in Juniper Titmice than Bridled Titmice, even after accounting for the difference in body size. Reduced EWL is characteristic of species from hotter, drier habitats and suggests that physiology plays a role in these species' habitat preferences. 
1370349| I investigated the pattern of song sharing for the two singing modes (Type I and Type II) of Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia). There is indirect evidence that males use Type I singing to attract females, and Type II singing to interact with other males, but how males use these singing modes for these functions is unknown. One way in which males might use Type II singing to interact with neighboring males is through the use of "shared songs:" males might preferentially sing songs they share with neighboring males to engage in song type matching or repertoire matching. I tested the prediction that Yellow Warblers should share more of their Type II songs with neighbors compared to non-neighbors, but that there should be no such relationship for Type I songs. I found that males in a Pennsylvania population shared significantly more of their Type II song repertoire with neighbors than with non-neighbors, and that sharing between males declined with distance between their territories. There was no spatial relationship for sharing Type I song types. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that Yellow Warblers use Type II singing to interact with other males using strategies such as song type and repertoire matching. /// Investigu el modo en que Dendroica petechia comparte sus cantos en relacin a dos maneras de cantar (Tipo I y Tipo II). Existe evidencia indirecta que los machos usan cantos de Tipo I para atraer a las hembras y cantos de Tipo II para interactuar con otros machos, pero se desconoce cmo los machos usan estos cantos para estas funciones. Una manera en la que los machos podran usar cantos de Tipo II para interactuar con machos vecinos es a travs del uso de "canciones compartidas:" los machos podran preferentemente cantar canciones que comparten con machos vecinos para establecer el uso de un tipo de cancin o repertorio semejante. Puse a prueba la prediccin que D. petechia debera compartir una mayor parte de sus canciones de Tipo II con machos vecinos que con no-vecinos, pero que no debera existir esta relacin para canciones de Tipo I. Encontr que los machos de una poblacin de Pensilvania comparten una parte significativamente mayor de su repertorio de canciones de Tipo II con vecinos que con no-vecinos, y que el grado en que los machos comparten canciones disminuye con la distancia entre sus territorios. No hubo una relacin espacial en los tipos de canciones compartidas de Tipo I. Estos resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis que D. petechia usa canciones de Tipo II como estrategia para interactuar con otros machos empleando tipo de canciones o repertorios semejantes. 
10.2307/1370140|We investigated resource use by breeding Tricolored Herons (Egretta tricolor) and Snowy Egrets (E. thula) at a regional scale (1,312 km<sup>2</sup>) during three years (1987-1989) with dissimilar water levels. We documented the direction and distance flown from the colony to feeding sites, habitat selection, daily movement patterns, feeding flock size, and diet at the Rodgers River Bay colony in Everglades National Park, Florida. The general pattern of flight direction was similar between the two species; both species flew northwest in 1987, a wet year, and northeast in 1988, a year with moderate surface water drying. During drought conditions in 1989, only Tricolored Herons nested successfully. Despite similarities in flight direction, habitat selection differed between the two species. Tricolored Herons were more consistent in habitat use among years, whereas Snowy Egret habitat selection was more variable. However, shifts in habitat selection in response to varying hydrologic conditions among years were greater than differences in habitat selection between the two species within a year. Prey selection was similar for the two species in 1987, indicating that they procured similar prey from different habitat types. Regardless of water conditions, Snowy Egrets were significantly more gregarious than Tricolored Herons, and feeding sites on consecutive days by radio-tagged Snowy Egrets were farther apart than those used by Tricolored Herons. Our results suggest that habitat selection occurs at a coarser scale than previously recognized and that studies conducted at single sites over short temporal scales may be ignoring important aspects of habitat selection.
10.2307/1368275|This study examined nest sites selection by a cavity nesting species, the House Wren (Troglodytes aedon), at two sites in Ontario, Canada. Descriptive information suggests that predation is the most important factor reducing House Wren reproductive success. Nests built in sparse vegetation suffered less predation than those in dense vegetation. Descriptive and experimental data demonstrated that House Wrens exhibit strong preference for nesting boxes in sparse vegetation, presumably because here they are more successful. We suggest that the greater success of House Wrens in sparse vegetation results from their more effective nest defense against other conspecifics that may attack wren nests. We predict that the ability of males to defend suitable nest sites influences their mating success.
10.2307/1370285|Nest site selection of Azure-winged Magpies (Cyanopica cyana) was studied in relation to their proximity to the nests of Japanese Lesser Sparrowhawks (Accipiter gularis). Magpies used nest sites that were more concealed when not nesting in association with the hawk, and nests with a higher rate of leaf cover were less frequently depredated. Magpies preferred to nest close to hawk nests, and such sites had higher breeding success. However, Azure-winged Magpies nested in places with less leaf cover near hawk nests. Despite the lack of cover, the magpie nests were more successful when located near a hawk nest. Magpies effectively avoid nest predation by exploiting the defending behavior of the hawks.
10.1525/cond.2013.120175|We quantified the duration and phenology of remigial molt of Barrow's Goldeneyes (
10.1525/cond.2012.110196|Bryans Shearwater (
10.2307/1369784|I tape-recorded and counted the songs of color-banded Golden-cheeked Warblers (Dendroica chrysoparia) on Fort Hood, Texas in 1993 and 1994 to determine whether males use a two-category song system common to many wood-warbler species. More than 97% of all songs I documented belonged to two categories: A and B. A songs were higher in frequency, shorter, less complex, and were delivered at lower rates than B songs. Males used A songs primarily early in the nesting season, when near females, and from the interior of territories. In contrast, B songs were more common later in the nesting season, at dawn, and when males sang near territory boundaries. Songs delivered near territory edges were usually sung from one or two preferred perches on each male's territory that often coincided with the edge of a cliff or a break in the forest canopy. Based on these data, and in contrast to the implications of an early account of Golden-cheeked Warbler song use, this species shares the song system used by many wood-warbler species. Furthermore, the patterns of song use that I observed suggest that males do not sing randomly with respect to time or location on territory, and monitoring efforts that assume random singing across time and space may result in inaccurate or biased estimates of population sizes and habitat preferences.
4500988| Habitats are composed of multiple variables, each of which may affect one or more population demographic rates. The patterns of correlation among habitat variables can introduce correlations among demographic rates, even if any single habitat variable affects only a single demographic rate and is independent of others. I present a simple model in which habitat is composed of two continuous habitat variables, one of which affects fecundity but not survival, and the other of which affects survival but not fecundity, such that correlations between survival and fecundity are due exclusively to correlations between the habitat variables. When individuals are able to select habitat with complete information about habitat quality, habitat selection always leads to higher growth rates at small population sizes. With complete information about habitat quality, patterns of distribution and population growth rates are strongly affected by the correlation between habitat variables. In contrast, when individuals have information about only fecundity or survival but not both, distributions become insensitive to correlations among habitat variables, which can lead to an ecological trap. This simple model demonstrates why explicitly distinguishing between habitat choices and the consequences of choices will be necessary if the complex interplay between habitat structure, habitat choice, and habitat quality is to be fully understood. /// Los hbitats estn compuestos por mltiples variables, cada una de las cuales puede afectar una o ms tasas demogrficas de las poblaciones. Los patrones de correlacin entre las variables de hbitat pueden introducir correlaciones entre las tasas demogrficas, an si cada variable de hbitat afecta nicamente a una tasa demogrfica y es independiente de las dems. En este trabajo, presento un modelo simple en el que el hbitat est compuesto por dos variables continuas, una que afecta la fecundidad pero no la supervivencia, y otra que afecta la supervivencia pero no la fecundidad. As, las correlaciones entre la supervivencia y la fecundidad se deben exclusivamente a las correlaciones entre las variables de hbitat. Cuando los individuos tienen la capacidad de seleccionar el hbitat con base en informacin completa sobre su calidad, la seleccin de hbitat siempre conduce a tasas de crecimiento mayores a tamaos poblacionales pequeos. Con informacin completa sobre la calidad del hbitat, los patrones de distribucin y las tasas de crecimiento de las poblaciones se ven afectados fuertemente por la correlacin entre las variables de hbitat. En contraste, cuando los individuos tienen informacin slo sobre la fecundidad o la supervivencia, pero no sobre ambas, las distribuciones no son sensibles a las correlaciones entre las variables de hbitat, lo que puede conducir a una trampa ecolgica. Este modelo sencillo demuestra por qu ser necesario distinguir explcitamente entre las opciones de hbitats y las consecuencias de escoger distintas opciones si se quiere entender completamente la compleja interaccin entre la estructura, las opciones y la calidad del hbitat. 
10.2307/1369995|We located 69 Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) nests in northwestern California. Spotted Owls nested in eight different tree species of which 83% were located in Douglas-firs (Pseudotsuga menziesii). Sixty percent of the nests were located in broken-top trees, whereas cavity and platform nests each accounted for 20%. Minimum nest tree ages averaged 288 years (range 57-688) with 42% of the trees having minimum ages of > 300 years. Owls nested in forests that were structurally different than forests available to them. These stands were characterized by large (> 90 cm dbh) conifers, a hardwood understory, and a variety of tree sizes. Nest sites appeared to be located in pockets of even older forest containing disfigured trees of advanced age which provided suitable nesting structures.
10.2307/1368945| Multilocus protein electrophoresis was used to study the phylogenetic relationships among seven species of Strigiformes. Genetic divergence was quantified by Nei's unbiased standard genetic distance, and dendrograms were computed both with distance and parsimony methods. Caprimulgus europaeus was used an an outgroup. The average genetic distance between Tyto alba and the Strigidae was D = 1.49; among the Strigidae was D = 0.88. Dendrograms computed with distance methods, with or without assuming a molecular clock, as well as the character state matrix tree, support the following phylogenetic relationships: Tytonidae and Strigidae are very divergent lineages; Athene is ancestral to most of the modern Strigidae and is related to Strix; Bubo is related to Otus; Asio otus and Asio flammeus show high genetic distance. These findings have been discussed taking into account both DNA-DNA hybridization data and the fossil record. A tentative calibration of the molecular clock is used to date divergence times among the studied taxa. 
10.2307/1367040|The influence of habitat on fat storage by Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlanticus) on their St. Lawrence River estuary spring staging grounds was studied in 1979 and 1980. In all, 373 individuals (two-year old and older birds only) were collected in two types of marsh during the six-week staging halt: the traditionally-occupied fresh-water, Scirpus-dominated marshes of the upper estuary (SCI) and in the newly-invaded (after the early 1960s) salt-water, Spartina-dominated marshes (SPA) of the lower estuary. The birds reached SPA a few days later than SCI in early April, at which time their total fat reserves amounted to about 10% of their body weight. Fattening at SCI increased steadily throughout the staging period, while at SPA, it slowed markedly in females and stopped completely in males around the middle of the staging period. In birds departing for the arctic around 18-20 May, the total fat reserves amounted to 19-20% of the body weight. Males departing from SCI carried 23% more fat on the average than those of SPA (P < 0.01), while the difference amounted to 90% in females (P > 0.05). It appears unlikely that the geese could increase these reserves after leaving the St. Lawrence estuary and before reaching their high-arctic nesting grounds.
10.2307/1368982| Parent birds of many species eat the fecal sacs produced by their nestlings. Two hypotheses have been proposed to explain why the parents ingest, rather than simply remove the sacs. (1) The parental nutrition hypothesis proposes that the parent benefits energetically or nutritionally from ingesting the sacs (Morton 1979, Glck 1988); and (2) the economic disposal hypothesis postulates that parents incur some costs from eating waste products, but the cost of eating them is less than the benefits gained from being allowed to remain at the nest (Hurd et al. 1991). Behavioral data on nesting Florida Scrub Jays (Aphelocoma c. coerulescens) and American Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) support the parental nutrition, and not the economic disposal hypothesis. In both species, when two parents were present at the production of fecal sacs, the most nutritionally stressed parent, the female, ate significantly more sacs than her mate. On occasions where one adult left the nest immediately after fecal sac production and one remained, the departing adult was not more likely to dispose of the sac in either species. In neither species was a departing adult more likely to carry off a fecal sac than eat it. 
3247766| Genetic variation was evaluated in Florida Mottled Ducks (Anas fulvigula), and Mottled Ducks from the larger Texas population using 22 allozyme and 5 microsatellite loci. Both marker types revealed differences in allele frequencies between populations and each population possessed rare and unique alleles. Overall allelic distributions were significantly different between the two populations, primarily due to significant differences at three allozyme and four microsatellite loci. Significant genetic differentiation was revealed between populations with both marker types, however, over all loci, only 5-6% of the variation detected was partitioned between populations. The Florida population possessed lower levels of allozyme heterozygosity and allelic diversity than the Texas population. In contrast, microsatellite heterozygosities and allelic diversity were similar between populations. These data indicate that there is limited gene flow between populations, suggesting that populations should continue to be managed separately. /// Se evalu la variacin gentica en el pato Anas fulvigula en Florida y en una poblacin ms grande de Texas, utilizando 22 aloenzimas y 5 loci microsatelitales. Ambos marcadores revelaron que existen diferencias entre las poblaciones en sus frecuencias allicas, y cada poblacin present alelos raros y nicos. La distribucin general de alelos fue significativamente diferente entre las dos poblaciones, debido principalmente a diferencias significativas en tres aloenzimas y cuatro loci microsatelitales. Se encontr una diferenciacin gentica significativa entre las poblaciones considerando ambos marcadores, sin embargo, considerando los loci en conjunto, slo el 5-6% de la variacin detectada estuvo repartida entre las poblaciones. La poblacin de Florida present niveles menores de heterocigocidad y diversidad allica en las aloenzimas que la poblacin de Texas. En contraste, la heterocigocidad y la diversidad allica de los microsatlites fueron similares entre las poblaciones. Estos datos indican que el flujo gnico entre las poblaciones es limitado, sugiriendo que deben seguir siendo manejadas de modo separado. 
10.2307/1369663|We studied nestling American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) in a laboratory setting to determine whether exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMFs) affected their growth. Captive nestlings were raised by their parents under control or EMF conditions similar to those occurring near transmission lines in the wild. Nestlings also were exposed to EMFs as embryos when incubated by their parents. Measurements of body mass, and lengths of tarsi, antebrachia, and feathers were taken every three days after hatching. EMF exposure affected the growth of female and male nestlings. EMF nestlings and fledglings were heavier and had longer tarsi. The periods of maximal weight gain and antebrachial growth were delayed in EMF males compared to controls, although EMF males were heavier and had similarly long antebrachia to controls by 21 days of age. Growth of ninth primaries and central rectrices of nestlings were unaffected by EMF exposure. Growth patterns of male and female kestrel nestlings were similar to those previously reported for this species, although the periods of maximal weight gain and bone growth did not occur earlier in EMF males than females as it did in controls.
10.1525/cond.2009.090061|Proximately, clutch size is determined by the termination of the sequential pattern of egg formation and laying. Egg laying is difficult to study, and documentation of detailed patterns is scarce. We used archived video recordings of the Eastern Bluebird (
40306204|The consequences of forest harvest to birds nesting in spatially and temporally dynamic landscapes are poorly understood. The boreal forests of Newfoundland have a low density of nesting birds, are naturally heterogeneous, and experience extreme annual variation in weather. Against this backdrop, we tested whether breeding success of passerines was affected by forest harvest or whether natural heterogeneity masked potential consequences of harvesting. During 2004 and 2005, we monitored 98 nests and banded 439 hatch-year (HY) birds of three migratory passerines in landscapes that varied in the extent of natural or human-induced heterogeneity: the White-throated Sparrow (
4500978| The reuse of old nests by open-cup nesting passerines is a seemingly rare but potentially adaptive behavior if, as a consequence, females begin to breed earlier, lay larger clutches, or fledge more young. We report an unusually high rate of nest reuse (~10% of 341 nests) for Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) breeding at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, Oregon. We found no difference in availability of nesting habitat or food abundance in territories in which nests were and were not reused. We also found no support for the hypotheses that kingbirds benefited from nest reuse by breeding earlier, laying larger clutches, or fledging more young, and, contrary to expectations, females that reused nests laid significantly smaller eggs than females who built their own nests. Nest reuse was independent of age: a roughly equal number of females for which we had multiple years of data both reused nests and built new nests, but at different points in their lives. Competition for nest sites seems high at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge because many open-cup nesting species utilize similar nest sites in the limited zone of riparian vegetation. A shortage of high-quality nest sites, coupled with interspecific competition, may underlie the high frequency of nest reuse in this kingbird population. /// La reutilizacin de nidos antiguos por aves paserinas que construyen nidos en forma de taza abierta es un comportamiento inusual que podra ser adaptativo si a consecuencia de ste, las hembras empiezan a reproducirse ms temprano, ponen ms huevos o cran un mayor nmro de polluelos. Presentamos datos sobre una tasa inusualmente alta de uso de nidos previamente usados (aproximadamente un 10% de 341 nidos) por parte de individuos de la especie Tyrannus tyrannus que se encontraban criando en el Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Malheur. No encontramos ninguna diferencia en la disponibilidad de hbitat de nidificatin ni en la abundancia de alimentos entre territorios en los cuales los nidos fueron usados nuevamente y territorios en los que los nidos slo fueron usados una vez. Adems, no podemos sostener la hiptesis de que estas aves se benefician de volver a usar nidos pudiendo reproducirse ms temprano, poner mayor nmcro de huevos o criar mayor ncmro de polluelos. Adems, contrariamente a lo esperado, las hembras que volvieron a usar nidos antiguos pusieron huevos significativamente ms pequeos que aquellas que construyeron nidos nuevos. El uso de nidos previamente usados fue independiente de la edad: un nmero aproximadamente igual de hembras para las cuales tenamos datos de varios aos usaron nidos de nuevo o construyeron nidos nuevos, pero en diferentes momentos de su vida. Aparentemente, la competencia por sitios de nidificacin en el Refugio Nacional de Vida silvestre Malheur es alta, dado que varias especies que emplean nidos en forma de taza abierta usan sitios de nidificacin similares en una zona limitada de hbitat ribereo. La escasez de sitios de nidificacin de alta calidad, junto con un alto nivel de competencia interespecfica, pueden explicar la alta tasa de reutilizacin de nidos en esta poblacin de T. tyrannus. 
10.2307/1369248|On Little Barrier Island, New Zealand, Whiteheads (Mohoua albicilla) reach high densities--a crude estimate of maximum density was 87 birds/ha. Males and females appeared to occupy home ranges of the same size. The sex ratio of mist-netted birds did not differ significantly from 1:1, but most helpers at the nest were males. The annual survival rate of independent mist-netted Whiteheads of unknown age was at least 0.82, yielding an estimated life expectancy of 5.1 years. Using Fry's method (1980) of generating survival curves we obtained an s
10.2307/1367063|We studied the breeding biology of Wedge-tailed Shearwaters (Puffinus pacificus) at a colony of about 700 pairs on the north shore of Kauai Island, Hawaii, between 1978 and 1981. Most birds nested in earthen burrows, but they also readily used artificial ones. The nesting chronology at the study area was similar among years and nearly identical to that recorded elsewhere in Hawaii. Shearwaters began to arrive in March, and spent considerable time rehabilitating burrows before laying eggs synchronously in June. Most eggs hatched between 1 and 12 August. Chicks fledged more than 100 days later during November. Approximately 80% of the eggs produced fledglings in 1978 and 1979, but success dropped in 1980 and 1981, probably because of predation and human disturbance.
10.1525/cond.2012.110191|Variation in habitat quality can influence birds' survival and reproduction profoundly, but many methods for assessing it are logistically difficult. Ptilochronology is a method of determining the nutritional state of a bird by measuring the width of the growth bars on its feathers and may be a useful proxy for assessing habitat quality. Since each growth bar is thought to represent 24 hr of feather growth, the average size of growth bars provides a record of the bird's nutritional state during feather growth. Ptilochronology has been validated in adult birds but may not be reliable when applied to nestlings. We compared the growth rate of remiges and the average width of the growth bars on them in Eastern Bluebird (
40072420|Stable-hydrogen isotope ratios (deuterium:protium; D) in feathers enable researchers to evaluate patterns of avian movement and to estimate the source areas of migratory birds. However, variation in feather D remains inadequately described, thus confounding inferences of avian movement and origin. We assessed variation within a feather and among feathers within and between tracts in three species of immature raptors. Within contour feathers, measurements of D increased from a distal section to an adjacent, proximal section; the magnitude of D increase varied with raptor species. Furthermore, contour and flight feathers differed systematically in their D content. Two explanations for intrafeather and intraindividual variation warrant further investigation: (1) hydrogen isotope fractionation associated with feather growth rate, and (2) the incorporation of temporal variation in environmental D into growing feathers. We consider these explanations for raptors and passerines, which seemingly differ in the incorporation of deuterium into feathers. Additionally, corresponding sections of multiple contour feathers exhibited better measurement repeatability than multiple sections within a contour feather; the variability of multiple D measurements within a feather tract (geometric SD: 3.5%) suggests that biological effects on the repeatability of D measurements from concurrently grown feather material are difficult to distinguish from analytical effects. In most cases, intrafeather and intraindividual variation can be minimized by informed sample selection decisions, but both sources of variation must be considered when stable-hydrogen isotopes are used to infer the geographic origins of migrants, ascertain migratory connectivity, and facilitate avian conservation decisions.
4123196| It has long been suggested that birds select habitat hierarchically, progressing from coarser to finer spatial scales. This hypothesis, in conjunction with the realization that many organisms likely respond to environmental patterns at multiple spatial scales, has led to a large number of avian habitat studies that have attempted to quantify habitat associations at multiple scales. Typically, multiscale habitat selection studies involve the assessment of habitat selection separately at two or more scales. Until recently, these studies have ignored the potential for cross-scale correlations: correlations among habitat variables across scales. If environmental patterns are correlated across the scales being analyzed, researchers using traditional analytical methods may reach erroneous conclusions about the presence or strength of habitat associations at a given scale. We discuss the ways in which cross-scale correlations manifest themselves in two types of habitat selection studies: (1) "constrained" designs that assume a hierarchical ordering of habitat selection decisions, and (2) "unconstrained" designs, which do not assume such a selection process. We demonstrate approaches for quantifying and modeling cross-scale correlations, including a simulation model, a variance decomposition technique, and a hierarchical modeling approach based on classification tree analysis. We conclude that cross-scale correlations have the potential to affect data interpretation in all types of habitat selection studies and that, even with careful attention to experimental design and the application of newly developed statistical techniques, it is likely their effects cannot be eliminated. /// Se ha sugerido desde hace mucho tiempo que las aves seleccionan el hbitat de modo jerrquico, en sentido progresivo desde escalas espaciales ms amplias a ms detalladas. Esta hiptesis, en conjuncin con el entendimiento de que muchos organismos probablemente responden a los patrones ambientales a mltiples escalas espaciales, ha generado un gran nmero de estudios del hbitat de las aves que han intentado cuantificar las asociaciones con el hbitat a mltiples escalas. Tpicamente, los estudios de seleccin de hbitat realizados a mltiples escalas incluyen la evaluatin de seleccin de hbitat a dos o ms escalas pero de modo separado. Hasta hace poco, estos estudios han ignorado el potencial de las correlaciones entre las diferentes escalas: correlaciones entre variables ambientales a travs de las diferentes escalas. Si los patrones ambientales estn correlacionados entre las escalas analizadas, los investigadores que usan mtodos tradicionales de anlisis pueden llegar a conclusiones errneas sobre la existencia o fuerza de asociaciones con el ambiente a una escala dada. Las correlaciones entre las diferentes escalas se manifiestan en dos tipos de estudios de seleccin de hbitat: (1) diseos "restringidos" que asumen un orden jerrquico de decisiones de seleccin de hbitat, y (2) diseos "no restringidos" que no asumen un proceso de seleccin de este tipo. Demostramos diferentes modos de cuantificar y modelar las correlaciones entre las diferentes escalas, incluyendo un modelo de simulacin, una tcnica de descomposicin de la varianza y un modelo jerrquico basado en anlisis de clasificacin de rboles. Concluimos que las correlaciones entre diferentes escalas tienen el potencial de afectar la interpretacin de los datos en todos los tipos de estudios de seleccin de hbitat y que, incluso prestando mucho cuidado al diseo experimental y a la aplicacin de nuevas tcnicas estadsticas, es probable que sus efectos no puedan ser eliminados. 
10.2307/1369506|We examined seasonal decline in clutch size in the high arctic Barnacle Goose Branta leucopsis in Svalbard. Females that arrived first at the breeding ground nested first, had the longest prelaying period, produced the largest clutches and also had the longest incubation period. Nevertheless, their brood size at hatching was larger than late nesters. These results do not support the nutrient reallocation hypothesis which suggests that seasonal decline in clutch size in arctic nesting geese results from the mobilization of nutrient reserves during the period before egg laying. Instead, we propose that geese which arrive late at the breeding area spend relatively less of their reserves on eggs. They do this presumably to achieve synchronous hatching with early nesting birds and/or to prevent a late breeding season which may reduce gosling survival, adult survival and/or future fecundity.
10.2307/1369321|We examined effects of successional changes in vegetation on bird species found in a young second-growth woodland in Costa Rica over a four-year period (1985-1988). Significant changes in vegetation structure and plant composition occurred: numbers of small (2-5 cm dbh) trees, woody shrubs, and lianas increased, as did canopy cover; herbaceous shrubs declined in abundance. Total numbers and species of plants producing flowers pollinated by hummingbirds or fruits eaten by birds did not change, but significant changes were noted in fruit production of individual plant species. Overall capture rates of birds in mist nets did not vary significantly among years but significant changes were noted for individual species. Several bird species characteristic of mature forest habitat first appeared in second-growth woodland during latter years of the study; other species, more dependent on early successional habitats, decreased in abundance or disappeared entirely from our study plot. Diets of some fruit-eating birds changed over time, apparently in response to changes in abundance of different fruit species. This study suggests that changes in plant and bird populations may be relatively rapid in tropical second-growth habitats. Such results have important implications for conservation; a range of successional stages may be necessary to support the full complement of bird species that can occur in a given area.
10.2307/1370490|The body composition of Barn Owls (Tyto alba) killed on motorways in the northeastern part of France during autumn and winter was studied in relation to their age, sex, body size, and season. Body composition differed greatly among individuals. In mature and immature birds of both sexes, body mass and body lipid were highest in early winter, whereas body protein did not show seasonal changes. Thus, body mass increase was due to accumulation of body lipid. Maximum (14%) and average (10%) adiposity of males and females were very similar, but body protein was higher in females than in males. This difference is explained by the larger skeletal size of females, and it disappears after size-adjustment. Relative to other data on captive fed or fasted Barn Owls, and based on body lipid, 54, 40 and 6% of the present birds were considered as nondepleted, partly-depleted and emaciated, respectively. The adiposity of nondepleted males and females and of mature and immature individuals were similar and averaged 12.5%, intermediate compared to other bird species. In contrast to previous suggestions, we conclude that Barn Owls accumulate lipid reserves as frequently as do other bird species, in anticipation of cold weather and food scarcity. During mild winters, most of the road-killed Barn Owls were in good nutritional condition. We found no evidence for a sex difference in the energy strategy of Barn Owls during the nonbreeding period.
10.2307/1367676|We studied the singing behavior and analyzed spectrographically the songs and calls of the Five-striped Sparrow (Aimophila quinquestriata). Its song consists of an introductory note followed by one to six, usually two, note complexes (a group of notes consistently occurring together). The same note complex is usually not repeated more than three times; nor are three different note complexes sung successively within the same song. Note complexes within songs are delivered in a non-random fashion, but the types of note complexes following other note complexes vary among individuals. Repertoires of three birds consisted of 159, 220, and 237 different songs and 43, 38, and 55 different note complexes, respectively. From 11,845 total songs recorded from all males, 99 different note complexes were recognized. Most note complexes were shared but several were unique to each individual. Five-striped Sparrows sing their song types many times before introducing others. Consequently, samples of songs as large as 1,000, 1,500, and 3,000 songs are necessary to obtain 90% of a bird's repertoire of note complexes. Complexity and versatility of song performances were greater when eggs or young were in the nest than when no nest or just the nest was present. In addition, Total Versatility values differed significantly when eggs were present and when eggs were absent. The number of different songs and different note complexes sung by each male also appeared to be related to the stage of nesting.
10.2307/1366988|The last fifteen years have yielded an ever increasing amount of information about brain pathways for song control in songbirds. I review here aspects of this work which suggest that the size of brain networks for song control may limit how much can be learned. In addition, sustained learning in adulthood may relate to plasma levels of gonadal hormones and to the replacement of dendrites, synapses and neurons. Mechanisms involved in this pathway "rejuvenation" may be similar to mechanisms for brain self-repair.
10.2307/1367423|We examined the pattern of use of territorial sites occupied by male Blue Grouse on a 485-ha area over a 10-year period, 1969 to 1978. Some sites were occupied continuously while others were used only intermittently; these were called "persistent" and "transient" sites, respectively. Approximately one-half of the transient sites were vacant in any given year. Males on persistent sites survived significantly longer and had significantly more females near their territories during the breeding season than those on transient sites. Thus, males on persistent sites may have better opportunities for breeding than males on transient sites. These results help to explain why yearling males delay breeding, despite being physiologically able to do so, and they also provide new insights into how breeding densities of males are regulated.
10.2307/1367004|Intentional poisoning of birds by farmers is not uncommon but is rarely documented and given proper attention. Two recent cases from New York are illustrative. In the first, at least 5,120 birds, mostly Red-winged Black-birds (Agelaius phoeniceus), Common Grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) and Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were killed by parathion- (an organophosphate insecticide) treated corn, which had been distributed on a truck farm in mid-March. In the second, at least 3,196 birds, mostly Common Grackles, Red-winged Blackbirds and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), died after ingesting parathion-treated rye seed spread near unharvested field corn in late March. A Cooper's Hawk (Accipiter cooperii), two Red-tailed Hawks (Buteo jamaicensis) and an American Kestrel (Falco sparverius) were killed in these cases after consuming poisoned icterids. Small numbers of birds in six other species were also killed in these incidents.
10.2307/1370008| We examined patterns of nest attendance of Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata) at Minto Flats, Alaska to explore geographic variation in incubation rhythms between females nesting in Alaska and females nesting in the prairies of North America. Females nesting at Minto Flats exhibited lower incubation constancy than females from the mid-continent. Females nesting at Minto took 4.1  0.1 recesses day<sup>-1</sup>, twice as many as other Anas species nesting in the prairies, but length of recesses was not different than prairie nesting conspecifics. Timing of recesses was dissimilar to rhythms reported for Northern Shovelers in the prairies; many recesses were taken at mid-day, fewer recesses were taken in the morning and evening, and females were on nests less when ambient temperature increased. Variation in the number of recesses taken per day was explained by differences among females and day of incubation. Recess length varied both among females and with time of day the recess was taken. Our data suggest that females at Minto have more difficulty obtaining food resources during incubation than females in the prairies. Differences observed in attentiveness among females at Minto are likely related to variation in territory and female quality. 
10.1525/cond.2011.110041|The status and distribution of the Osprey (
10.2307/1370307|The provisioning strategies of two closely related species of albatross breeding sympatrically were studied at Campbell Island, New Zealand. Black-browed Albatrosses (Diomedea melanophrys) had a higher provisioning rate of chicks than Grey-headed Albatrosses (D. chrysostoma) as a result of a higher feeding frequency. Provisioning and satellite-tracking data suggest that Black-browed Albatrosses forage over neritic waters in trips of up to 5 days, in combination with longer trips over oceanic waters. In contrast, it was not possible to separate clearly short and long trips in Grey-headed Albatrosses, but they probably forage mostly over oceanic waters, combined with rafting or feeding near the colony during stays of short duration at sea. No inter-annual differences in foraging trip duration were apparent between years for either species. Chicks were fed larger meals at older ages and when in poorer condition, probably due to a limitation on the rate of assimilation of food. For both species, chick condition after feeding did not influence the duration of foraging trips. Black-browed Albatrosses from Campbell Island feed locally in neritic waters and up to 2,000 km from the colony, in contrast to conspecifics from other sites which feed principally over neritic waters. Grey-headed Albatrosses were largely dependent on oceanic resources as for conspecifics studied elsewhere. This study shows that foraging and provisioning strategies are flexible within species, allowing them to exploit more or less distant resources.
4151046| Survival of young is poorly understood, but important to fitness and demographics for many birds. Estimates of duckling survival and the factors influencing it are essential to guiding regional breeding management for ducks. We estimated daily and 30-day duckling survival for Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) at one of four sites each year during 1997-2000 in southern Ontario, Canada. We examined effects of site-year, brood age, female age, and hatching date on survival. Our best model supported additive effects of site-year, brood age, and hatching date. The odds of daily survival were 8.8 times (95 CI: 4.2-18.5) higher for older (>7 days) relative to younger (7 days) ducklings and 1.7 times (0.9-3.1) higher for early-hatched (before 1 June) relative to late-hatched (1 June or later) ducklings. When controlling for differences in hatching date, we did not find support for an influence of female age. Mean 30-day duckling survival across sites was 0.40 (range 0.07-0.50). Extremely low survival at one site appeared to be associated with poor wetland conditions. Our results suggested directional selection for early nesting, and we predicted that early nests made a disproportionately large contribution (61%) to recruitment to 30 days posthatching. We recommend management emphasis on protection, enhancement, and restoration of seasonal wetlands to prevent declines in duckling survival. /// La supervivencia de los juveniles permanece poco entendida, aunque es importante para la adecuacin biolgica y la demografa de muchas aves. Las estimaciones de supervivencia de los juveniles de patos y los factores que la influencian son esenciales para guiar estrategias regionales de manejo reproductivo en patos. Estimamos la supervivencia diaria y a los 30 das de los juveniles de Anas platyrhynchos en un sitio por ao para un total de cuatro sitios entre 1997-2000 en el sur de Ontario, Canad. Estimamos los efectos de sitio-ao, edad de la nidada, edad de la hembra y fecha de eclosin sobre la supervivencia. Nuestro mejor modelo respald efectos aditivos de sitio-ao, edad de la nidada y fecha de eclosin. La supervivencia diaria fue 8.8 veces (95% IC: 4.2-18.5) mayor para juveniles de mayor edad (>7 das) en comparacin con juveniles de menor edad (<7 das) y 1.7 veces 0.9-3.1) mayor para juveniles que eclosionaron tempranamente (antes del 1 de Junio) en comparacin con juveniles que eclosionaron tardamente (durante o despus del 1 de Junio). Cuando controlamos por diferencias en la fecha de eclosin, no encontramos evidencia de una influencia de la edad de la hembra. La supervivencia media, considerando todos los sitios, de los juveniles a los 30 das fue de 0.40 (rango 0.07-0.50). La supervivencia extremadamente baja que registramos en uno de los sitios parece estar asociada con las malas condiciones del humedal. Nuestros resultados sugirieron una selectin direccional hacia la nidificacin temprana, y predijimos que los nidos tempranos representaron una contributin desproporcionadamente grande (61%) al reclutamiento luego de 30 das de eclosin. Recomendamos que el manejo ponga nfasis en la protectin, mejoramiento y restauracin de humedales estacionales para prevenir una disminucin en la supervivencia de los juveniles de patos. 
4122499| Assessing the nature and magnitude of potential effects of climate change on populations is important to anticipating effects on species diversity for conservation planning. We used ecological niche modeling to predict present and future distributions of 49 species of manakins (Pipridae) and allies. Predictions for present-day distributions were highly coincident with independent test data, suggesting good predictive ability. Assuming no dispersal, projections of potential distributions under four scenarios of climate change predicted that 20% of manakin species would likely go extinct from their current ranges, and that distributions would in general be reduced and fragmented, regardless of the area of present-day potential distribution or rarity. Predicted changes in potential distributions, spatial configuration of suitable habitats, and geographic position of species ranges were more dramatic for species inhabiting flatlands than for montane species. These results are an example of how ecological niche modeling techniques can anticipate the nature and magnitude of changes in biodiversity in response to climate change. /// Conhecer a natureza e magnitude dos efeitos potenciais das mudanas climticas em populaes  importante em pianos de conservao por antecipar os efeitos sobre a diversidade de espcies de uma regio. Modelamos o nicho ecolgico de 49 espcies de tangars (Pipridae), e espcies aparentadas, para prever suas distribuies no presente e futuro. Estimativas para o presente foram altamente coincidentes com testes independentes, indicando boa previsibilidade dos modelos. As projees de distribuies potenciais em quatro cenrios de mudanas climticas indicam que, na ausncia de disperso, 20% das espcies de tangars iro se extinguir de suas localidades de ocorrncia atuais, e que suas distribuies se tornaro reduzidas e fragmentadas, independentemente da rea de distribuio potencial e raridade no presente. Mudanas previstas na distribuio potencial, disposio espacial de habitats propcios, e posio geogrfica da distribuio de espcies foram maiores para espcies habitantes de baixadas que de regies montanhosas. Estes resultados exemplificam o uso de modelagem de nicho ecolgico para antecipar a natureza e magnitude de alteraes na biodiversidade decorrentes de mudanas climticas. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100186|Knowledge of stopovers made by migratory birds comes mostly from studies at relatively fine spatial scales. While this focus yields important information about processes at those scales, it ignores possible processes acting at broader spatial scales. We established an array of three automated radio-telemetry receiver towers housing ten antennas arranged to sample a landscape and its associated airspace at Lake Erie in southern Canada. We used digitally coded tags to monitor the behavior of multiple Swainson's and Hermit Thrushes (
10.2307/1368739|We examined the relationship between brood parasitism, nest location, egg shape, and eggshell thickness in waterfowl species. We found that within and across tribes, parasitic species did not have significantly rounder eggs or thicker shells than nonparasitic species. However, cavity-nesting species have both rounder eggs and thicker eggshells than open-nesting species. Cavity-nesting waterfowl may require stronger eggs because they often nest in sites that are too small or are irregularly shaped, thereby increasing the jostling of eggs against one another when the female enters or exits the nest. Using data for the Hooded Merganser (Lophodytes cucullatus), the species with the roundest egg and the proportionally thickest shell of all extant waterfowl, we found no evidence for a cost of increased eggshell strength, at least with regard to incubation period and egg hatchability. We also were unable to explain why Hooded Mergansers lay eggs like billiard balls.
10.2307/1369606|Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) consumption of quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) flower buds is determined, in part, by the concentration of coniferyl benzoate (CB) in the bud. Understanding the physiological effects of this compound may clarify whether the association between annual fluctuations in CB and Ruffed Grouse population levels has a cause/effect relationship. We determined the maximum level of dietary CB that Ruffed Grouse can tolerate by feeding captive grouse a formulated diet treated with eight concentrations of CB. Loss of body mass was used to indicate toxicity. Biotransformation products from CB were identified in order to determine the detoxication mechanisms employed and the presence of potentially toxic CB metabolites. Ruffed Grouse will consume up to 2 g kg
10.2307/1368531| Diets of Cape Cormorant (Phalacrocorax capensis) were sampled from 1981 to 1985, between Mercury (2543S) and Dyer (3441S) islands of the Benguela upwelling ecosystem off Namibia and South Africa. Over 99% of identifiable prey items were pelagic fish: cape anchovy (Engraulis japonicus capensis), 46%; pelagic goby (Sufflogobius bibarbatus), 34%; and maasbanker (Trachurus trachurus), 14%. Daily, monthly, and regional variation in diet was three to four times that of annual variation, suggesting that environmental variability in the Benguela ecosystem is greatest at time intervals shorter than 1 year and that caution is necessary when inferring diets of Cape Cormorants from limited sampling. 
10.2307/1368680|Black-chinned Hummingbirds (Archilochus alexanderi) were offered combinations of sucrose and artificial sweeteners (saccharin, aspartame) at various concentrations and viscosity levels. Sucrose at 40% concentration was preferred over lower concentrations. Sucrose at 20% was preferred over artificial sweeteners, plain water, and low sucrose/high viscosity samples. Additions of artificial sweeteners to sucrose samples had no effect on nectar consumption and, therefore, were judged to be ineffective stimuli rather than aversive. Artificial increases in viscosity had no effects on the amount of nectar removed as long as a minimum of 15% sucrose was present. Hummingbirds responded to decreased sucrose concentrations by increasing sampling behavior at feeders; at increased sucrose levels, sampling behavior decreased. Chemosensory mechanisms rather than physical measures of viscosity are responsible for the sensory evaluation and the subsequent selection of sucrose nectars.
10.2307/1369861|We monitored evening flights of female Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) from Lacassine National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) in southwestern Louisiana during winters of 1991-1992 and 1992-1993. We analyzed the influence of female age, winter, and date within wintering period on three flight parameters: distance, duration, and departure time. Flight distance and duration increased with date within wintering period, and age differences in flight distance and duration were not consistent between winters. Females departed 12 min later, on average, on clear, moonlit evenings than on overcast, moonless evenings, and 4 min later when winds were light rather than heavy. After controlling for variation due to environmental conditions, immature females departed Lacassine NWR 1.3 min earlier, on average, than did adults. Flight parameters of females did not differ between hunting and non-hunting time periods. Estimated daily transit costs ranged from 27-54% of basal metabolic rate, 7-19% of daily energy expenditure, and 8-20% of daily dietary intake of rice (Oryza sativa). Our findings that flight distance and duration increased with date within wintering period were consistent with predictions of refuging theory, but alternative hypotheses also could explain these results. Evening flights of Northern Pintails roosting on Lacassine NWR were greater in distance and duration than those reported for most other species of wintering waterfowl. We recommend that proximity of refuges to feeding sites be considered in conservation and management plans for wintering Northern Pintails and other refuging waterfowl.
3247757| The ability to ascertain gender and age of juvenile grouse is essential for determining gender-specific population age structure and studying timing of reproductive events, respectively. We examined outer rectrix feathers from juvenile Lesser Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) captured at 30-40 and 50-60 days post-hatching. Blood samples were collected from most chicks captured after 50 days post-hatching and molecular analysis of blood cells was used to validate our field method for ascertaining gender. Barring on the inner half of the outer rectrices was a poor method for identification of the gender of juvenile Lesser Prairie-Chickens in Kansas as only 17 of 28 (61%) and 20 of 31 (65%) chicks were classified correctly at 30-40 and 50-60 days post-hatching, respectively. The extent of barring on the outer half of the rectrix was a better method of gender identification as 100% (15 of 15) and 90% (17 of 19) of juveniles were correctly identified at 30-40 and 50-60 days post-hatching, respectively. Mean body characteristics at hatching were measured for mass (15.5 g), foot length (20.1 mm), tarsometatarsus length (18.2 mm), and flattened wing length (20.5 mm). Measurements from hatching to 320 days post-hatching for each body characteristic were used to fit standardized growth curves. Logistic curves best described the development of each body characteristic except wing length. The Gompertz equation more accurately described growth of Lesser Prairie-Chicken wings. /// La identificacin del sexo y las edad de los urogallos juveniles es esencial para determinar la estructura de edades para cada sexo en las poblacionesy para estudiar el momento en que ocurren los eventos reproductivos, respectivamente. Para determinar el sexo de individuos de la especie Tympanuchus pallidicinctus, examinamos las rectrices externas de juveniles capturados entre 30-40 y 50-60 das despus de salir del cascarn. Tambin colectamos muestras de sangre de la mayora de los polios capturados despus de 50 das de haber eclosionado, e hicimos anlisis moleculares de las clulas sanguneas para verificar la validez de nuestro mtodo de campo para determinar el sexo. La observacon del barreteado de la mitad interior de las timoneras externas no fue un mtodo satisfactorio para identificar el sexo en T. pallidicinctus en Kansas, pues slo permiti clasificar correctamente 17 de 28 (61%) y 20 de 31 (65%) pollos de 30-40 y 50-60 das de edad, respectivamente. El mtodo consistente en examinar el grado y nmero de barras en la parte exterior de las timoneras result ser mejor para determinar el sexo, ya que permiti clasificar correctamente el 100% (15 de 15) y el 90% (17 de 19) de los juveniles de 30-40 y 50-60 das de edad, respectivamente. Las caractersticas corporales medias medidas al momento de nacer fueron: masa (15.5 g), longitud de la pata (20.1 mm), longitud del tarsometatarso (18.2 mm) y longitud del ala aplanada (20.5 mm). Con el objetivo de establecer curvas de desarrollo estandardizadas para cada una de estas caractersticas corporales, empleamos medidas tomadas el da de eclosin y 320 das ms tarde. El desarrollo de todas las caractersticas corporales, excepto la longitud del ala, fue descrito ms adecuadamente por curvas logsticas. La ecuacin Gompertz describi con ms exactitud el crecimiento de las alas. 
10.2307/1370311|We studied nest predation pressure on birds along an urban gradient in urban parks in three Finnish towns. Artificial ground nests with Japanese Quail (Coturnix coturnix japonicus) eggs were depredated more in the urban area than in the adjacent forest area. Within each town, the nest predation rate was higher in the town center than in the less urbanized area of detached houses. Predation rates did not vary from year to year or between study towns. Abundances of generalist avian predators were higher in the town center than in the area of detached houses and in the surrounding forest area. Most of the nests in the town center were destroyed by avian predators. Predation rate of artificial nests in each of the town areas was higher in managed parks than in unmanaged parks, presumably due to the less dense vegetation in the managed than the unmanaged parks. A test involving covering nests revealed that artificial nests covered by adjacent vegetation survived better than nests with less cover. In our study, artificial nest loss reflected the distribution of avian nest predators. Ground nesters were present at lower abundances in areas where concealing vegetation was missing and avian nest predation was high. Apparently, nest predation is one of the several possible mechanism affecting urban bird assemblages.
10.2307/1366880|We measured daily energy expenditure (DEE) of free-living Dippers (Cinclus cinclus) during winter, using the doubly-labelled water (DLW) technique. DEE was estimated as 206 kJd
10.2307/1366785|A partially banded population of 12-13 pairs of Rufous Horneros was studied in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, during 1970-1976. Territories remained relatively stable during the study. Birds lived in pairs and the pair bond usually lasted for more than one breeding season. Territory sizes ranged from 0.25 ha to about 1 ha. All nesting activities were shared by both sexes. Laying occurred from late August to early December; second broods were attempted in 11 out of 24 nests. Early breeding probably diminished the risks of nest piracy and parasitism by other bird species. Mean clutch size was 3.48 eggs, with individual females showing the whole range of variation (three or four eggs). The incubation period was 16-17 days and the nestling period 24-26 days. Juveniles remained in the parental territories for no less than four months, but they helped occasionally in nest building. Parents opposed this activity. Asynchronous hatching was observed in all the clutches of four eggs; in 9 out of 13 broods of four the younger nestlings died. Nesting success was high, and an average of 2.52 nestlings were reared per clutch. The annual adult mortality was 28.6%, and thus the population probably produced an excess of juveniles. Territorial behavior apparently played an important role in limiting population density.
10.2307/1369714|Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii) is widely distributed in the Southwestern United States, where it frequently occurs in association with ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa). Fire suppression and fuelwood harvest likely have reduced oak abundance within the pine-oak type. Gambel oak occurs in multiple age-related growth forms, from small shrubs to large, old trees, and may provide important foraging and nesting habitat for breeding birds. I compared attributes of breeding bird communities in 16 northern Arizona ponderosa pine stands from 1993-1995, that were structurally similar except for the presence or absence of Gambel oak. Overlap in bird species composition was high; pine and pine-oak stands had a mean Jaccard similarity value of 0.67. Five species were unique to pine stands, whereas 10 species were largely restricted to or only found in pine-oak stands. Overall bird diversity was significantly higher in pine-oak stands, which also had more species of Neotropical migrants, ground nesters, primary cavity excavators, and secondary cavity users than did pine stands. Pine and pine-oak stands had similar species evenness and similar rates of annual species turnover. Total bird abundance did not differ between cover types; however, primary cavity excavators were more abundant in pine-oak stands. Because of the apparent positive influence of oak on breeding birds, forest managers are encouraged to use treatments that retain and enhance the various growth forms of Gambel oak found in pine-oak stands.
10.2307/1370197|From 1993-1996, we surveyed, banded, and radio-tracked Yellow Rails (Coturnicops noveboracensis) along the St. Lawrence River, in southern Quebec. We conducted night surveys at Ile aux Grues (IAG), and banded 130 individuals at several localities. We recaptured individuals 82 times, 7 of which were returns (same site, different years), 5 were displacements (same year, different sites), and 1 was a recovery (different site and year). Up to 20 calling males were surveyed at IAG during a given night, and each year the number of rails heard calling increased from mid-June until the first days of August, and then decreased through late August until calling was no longer heard. We argue the increase in rails heard on IAG in July and early August occurred because birds moved to the island, whereas the decrease in rails heard in late August occurred because birds stopped calling and began molting; indeed, all displacements were from rails recaptured at IAG and three rails were recaptured at IAG during their complete prebasic molt. Some Yellow Rails may move from other areas along the St. Lawrence River to IAG in order to molt, probably because IAG harbors the largest high-marshes along the river and is free from terrestrial predators. Although they may not be indicative of a genuine molt migration, our results are suggestive of a molt migration similar in some ways to that known to occur in waterfowl and coots.
4122546|We investigated the occurrence and potential ecotoxicological significance of elevated concentrations of strontium (Sr) in eggshells of nine passerine birds from four regions in Arizona. Concentrations of Sr in eggshells ranged from
40072329|Documented declines in Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) populations may be caused by several factors, including reduced reproductive success or survival from exposure to environmental contaminants during winter, migration, or breeding. We evaluated organochlorines and inorganic elements in Lesser Scaup blood (n = 14) and eggs (n = 10) from a breeding area in the relatively pristine Yukon Flats National Wildlife Refuge in interior Alaska. Most contaminants were not at concentrations of concern. Lead was detected in only four blood samples, with an average when detected (0.29 mg kg wet weight [ww]) slightly above background levels (0.20 mg kg ww). Our study area had little or no hunting, but since lead exposure is correlated with hunting pressure, lead should be evaluated in other Lesser Scaup breeding areas. Strontium in eggs (mean = 10.90 mg kg dry weight [dw]) was significantly negatively correlated with eggshell thickness. Eggshell thickness was also 18% lower than in museum specimens, a percentage associated with population declines in other species, and was not correlated with other contaminants. Few comparative data in the literature exist, but productivity in this breeding area was low (mean nest success = 12%), so further research on the effects of strontium on productivity through the mechanism of eggshell thinning is needed. Most environmental contaminants are unlikely to be affecting Lesser Scaup populations breeding in interior Alaska, but lead and strontium should be studied further. /// Las disminuciones documentadas de las poblaciones de Aythya affinis podran estar siendo causadas por varios factores, incluyendo una reduccin en el xito reproductive o en la supervivencia por la exposicin a contaminantes ambientales durante el invierno, la migracin y la poca de cra. Evaluamos la presencia de elementos rganoclorados e inorgnicos en la sangre (n = 14) y en los huevos (n = 10) de A. affinis provenientes de un rea de cra relativamente prstina del Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Yukon Flats en el interior de Alaska. La mayora de los contaminantes no se presentaron en concentraciones que fueran preocupantes. Se detect plomo en slo cuatro muestras de sangre, con un promedio detectado (0.29 mg kg peso humedo [ph]) ligeramente mayor al de los niveles basales (0.20 mg kg ph). En nuestra rea de estudio, la caza fue escasa o nula, pero debido a que la exposicin al plomo est correlacionada con la presin de caza, el plomo deberia ser evaluado en otras reas de cria de A. affinis. El estroncio en los huevos (promedio = 10.90 mg kg peso seco [ps]) estuvo significativamente y negativamente correlacionado con el espesor de la cscara del huevo. El espesor de las cscaras de huevo tambien fue un 18% ms bajo que en los especimenes de museo, un porcentaje asociado con disminuciones poblacionales en otras especies, y no estuvo correlacionado con otros contaminantes. Existen pocos datos comparativos en la literatura, pero la productividad en esta rea de cria fue baja (xito promedio del nido = 12%), por lo que se requieren estudios adicionales sobre los efectos del estroncio sobre la productividad a travs del mecanismo de adelgazamiento de la cscara del huevo. La mayorsubdivisiona de los contaminantes ambientales probablemente no estn afectando las poblaciones de A. affinis que cran en el interior de Alaska, pero el plomo y el estroncio deberan ser estudiados con mayor profundidad.
1370640| Many seabirds are monomorphic and lack obvious ornamentation; thus the mechanisms and signaling systems that mediate mate choice can be elusive. We investigated the possibility that a unique characteristic of wing molt in most species of Sterna terns acts as a sexually selected indicator of fitness. Many terns replace a variable number of primaries and sometimes secondaries twice or occasionally three times each year. Some have suggested that this repeated wing molt may serve as an honest indicator of fitness in mutual mate choice. If this molt-signaling hypothesis is valid, one would expect there to be assortative mating with respect to the extent of repeated wing molt. We tested this prediction by examining 262 breeding pairs of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) from colonies in Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts. Using banding records and plumage characters, we were often able to distinguish young birds making their first breeding attempt from older birds which may have maintained past pair bonds. We found evidence of assortative mating with respect to repeated wing molt in newly formed pairs, which supports the notion of wing molt as a sexually selected character. /// Muchas aves marinas son monomrficas y no tienen ornamentaciones obvias; por tanto, los mecanismos y los sistemas de seales que media la seleccin de pareja son evasivos. Investigamos la posibilidad de que una caracterstica nica de la muda en la mayora de las especies de charranes (Sterna spp.) funcione como un indicador de la aptitud sexualmente seleccionado. Muchos charranes substituyen un nmero variable de primarias y a veces de secundarias dos veces, u ocasionalmente tres veces, cada ao. Algunos autores han sugerido que esta muda repetida podra servir como un indicador honesto de la aptitud durante la seleccin mutua de las parejas. Si esta hiptesis de la muda-sealizacin fuera vlida, se esperara que existiera apareamiento asociativo con respecto al grado de la muda repetida de las alas. Para poner a prueba esta prediccin, examinamos 262 parejas reproductivas de Sterna hirundo, en colonias en la Baha Buzzards, Massachusetts. Usando registros de anillamiento y caracteres del plumaje, pudimos distinguir con frecuencia los charranes jvenes que hacan su primer intento de aparearse de los ms viejos que pudieron haber mantenido enlaces con parejas anteriores. Encontramos evidencia de apareamento asociativo con respecto a la muda repetida de las alas en parejas nuevas, lo que apoya la nocin de que la muda del ala sera un caracter seleccionado sexualmente. 
4151065| We experimentally reduced the number of flowers of two species of Heliconia (H. caribaea and H. bihai) by 50 on territories defended by male Purple-throated Caribs (Eulampis jugularis). Following reductions, males decreased the amount of time they spent feeding on their territories and lost a significant amount of weight, but increased their time feeding and regained weight to premanipulation levels following restoration of flower abundance. Territorial males also spent less time in defense following flower reductions, in part by reducing the durations of chases of female intruders. Significantly fewer females intruded onto male territories following reductions in only 1 of 3 years; in all 3 years, significantly more females intruded onto the more rewarding H. caribaea territories, which offered a greater number of flowers per inflorescence than H. bihai territories. /// Disminuimos experimentalmente en un 50% el nmero de fibres de dos especies de Heliconia (H. caribaea y H. bihai) en territorios defendidos por machos de la especie Eulampis jugularis. Despus de las disminuciones, los machos redujeron la cantidad de tiempo que pasaron alimentndose en sus territorios y perdieron una cantidad considerable de peso, pero aumentaron el tiempo de alimentacin y recobraron su peso hasta los niveles de premanipulacin una vez que se restauraron los niveles de abundancia de fibres. Los machos territoriales tambin invirtieron menos tiempo en defensa luego de las reducciones en la cantidad de fibres, en parte reduciendo la duracin de las persecuciones a hembras intrusas. Significativamente menos hembras irrumpieron en los territorios de los machos tras las disminuciones en slo uno de tres aflos; en los tres aos, significativamente ms hembras irrumpieron en los territorios con H. caribaea, los cuales ofrecieron un mayor nmero de fibres por inflorescencia que los territorios con H. bihai. 
4500993| The Blue-tailed Bee-eater (Merops philippinus) is a cooperatively breeding and socially monogamous member of the Coraciiformes that displays conspicuous coloration and elongated central rectrices ("streamers"). Humans cannot distinguish males from females; both sexes are brightly colored with a chestnut throat patch, a yellow chin, and green body coloration fading into a turquoise-blue rump and tail. We quantified coloration with ultraviolet- (UV) visible spectrometry and measured morphology to determine the extent of sexual dichromatism and dimorphism. Males displayed more exaggerated coloration, longer tail streamers, and were larger than females. Multiple plumage ornaments (measures of plumage coloration and streamer length) were positively correlated in both sexes. Males in better body condition expressed darker chestnut throats and more chromatic green body plumage. Females in better body condition, however, exhibited more chromatic blue rumps and yellow chins. This study represents the first objective description of plumage ornamentation in the order Coraciiformes. /// Merops philippinus es un Coraciiforme que presenta cra cooperativa y monogamia social, coloracin ostentosa y rectrices centrales alargadas. Los humanos no pueden distinguir los machos de las hembras; ambos sexos presentan colores brillantes con un parche gular castao, una barbilla amarilla y una coloracin verde del cuerpo que se desvanece a una rabadilla y cola de color azul turquesa. Cuantificamos la coloracin con espectrometra visible-ultravioleta (UV) y medimos la morfologa para determinar la magnitud del dicromatismo y el dimorfismo sexual. Los machos presentaron una coloracin ms exagerada y rectrices centrales ms largas y fueron ms grandes que las hembras. Varios ornamentos del plumaje (medidas de la coloracin del plumaje y de la longitud de las rectrices centrales) estuvieron correlacionados positivamente en ambos sexos. Los machos en mejor condicin corporal presentaron gargantas castaas ms oscuras y plumaje corporal ms verde. Sin embargo, las hembras en mejor condicin corporal exhibieron rabadillas cromticas ms azules y barbillas amarillas. Este estudio representa la primera descripcin objetiva de las ornamentaciones del plumaje en el orden de los Coraciiformes. 
1369679| We studied the breeding diet and hunting behavior of Crane Hawks (Geranospiza caerulescens) in Tikal National Park, Petn, Guatemala in 1994 and 1995. We observed 227 prey items while conducting observations at six nesting attempts, and during opportunistic sightings in the breeding season. Among 181 identified prey items, rodents comprised 47.5%, lizards 19.9%, frogs 16.0%, bats 6.6%, birds 6.1%, and snakes 2.8%; a juvenile skunk also was represented. Rodents accounted for 77% of estimated biomass, including at least eight species representing terrestrial, cursorial, and arboreal habits. More than half of all prey items weighed <20 g, but 40% weighed >50 g; many were nocturnal species presumably taken from daytime hiding places. We observed hunting attempts in all strata of the forest and in several forest types. Hunting behavior included still-hunting from a perch and probing with head or feet in holes, bromeliads and other epiphytes, palm leaf axils, crotches of branches, behind bark in living and dead trees, and in puddles. Compared to other raptors studied at Tikal, the Crane Hawk had a moderately broad food niche that overlapped most with other raptors deemed dietary generalists. However, the Crane Hawk's unique anatomical features and hunting behavior enabled it to capture diurnally reclusive prey presumably unavailable to many other raptors, thus facilitating relatively low dietary overlap. /// Estudiamos la dieta y el comportamiento de cacera del Gaviln Ranero (Geranospiza caerulescens) durante 1994 y 1995 en el Parque Nacional de Tikal, Petn, Guatemala. Observamos 227 presas durante observaciones de seis nidadas y otras observaciones oportunas en la estacin reproductiva. De 181 presas identificadas, roedores constituyeron el 47.5%, lagartijas 19.9%, ranas 16.0%, murcilagos 6.6%, aves 6.1%, y culebras 2.8%; un zorrillo infantl tambin fue representada. Roedores constituyeron el 77% de la biomasa estimada, e incluy al menos de ocho especies con hbitos terrestres, cursoriales, y arbreos. Ms de la mitad de las presas pesaron <20 g, pero el 40% pesaron >50 g; muchas fueron especies nocturnas, por presuncin capturadas de escondites durante el da. Observamos intentos de cazar por todas partes del sotobosque y en el dosel en varios tipos de bosque. El comportamiento de caceria incluy posando quieto en una percha, y buscando con cabeza y pies entre hoyos, bromlias y otras epfitas, hojas de palmas, bifrcaciones de ramas, detrs de la cortesa de rboles ambos vivos y muertos, y en charcos. En comparacin con otros rapaces estudiados en Tikal, el Gaviln Ranero tena un nicho alimenticio algo amplio que coincidi ms con rapaces considerados como generalistas dietticos. Sin embargo, la anatoma singular del Gaviln Ranero y su comportamiento de cacera permite la captura de presas con hbitos diurnamente secretos que probablemente son indisponibles a otras rapaces, as facilitando menos coincidencia de la dieta entre ellos y los dems especies. 
10.2307/1368322|There are three breeding populations of the Marbled Godwit Limosa fedoa (Linnaeus): the prairie-breeding birds of mid-continent North America, and widely separated tundra-breeding populations at James Bay, Canada, and in the vicinity of Ugashik Bay, Alaska, on the north coast of the Alaska Peninsula. The Alaska population, which apparently winters locally on the Pacific coast from Washington to northern California, comprises birds with shorter tarsi, shorter wings, shorter culmens, and more massive bodies than those of the mid-continent population. Believed to have persisted near Ugashik Bay since that area formed part of Pleistocene Beringia, the Alaska birds are described as a new subspecies, L. f. beringiae.
10.2307/1369432|Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus), Kentucky Warblers (Oporornis formosus), and Worm-eating Warblers (Helmitheros vermivorus) were censused in central Missouri to determine breeding population densities in three forest tracts large enough to satisfy minimum area requirements estimated in an earlier study. Densities of Kentucky Warblers and Ovenbirds were significantly higher in a large forest tract (>800 ha) than in two 300 ha forests. Worm-eating Warblers bred only in the large forest. Kentucky Warblers and Ovenbirds had larger territories in the two sites with lower population density. The three sites had similar vegetation structure but significantly different topography and edge/area ratios. Habitat selection, analyzed with principal component analysis and log-linear models, was significantly different among the three species and different among the three sites. Edge/interior ratio and topographic features contribute to differences in population densities observed among the three sites. Area requirements may be larger than those estimated by the incidence function.
10.2307/1369115|We studied the time and energy allocations related to territorial behavior in male Blue-throated Hummingbirds (Lampornis clemenciae; about 8.3 g) under conditions of unlimited and restricted food availability. When food was unlimited, territorial males avoided inter-specific aggression, chasing only 11% of the inter-specific intruders (Black-chinned Hummingbirds, Archilochus alexandri; about 3.5 g). Thus, when food was unlimited, inter-specific intruders were able to forage efficiently, meeting their estimated daily energy requirement with ease (27 kJ/day). Conversely, 81% of intra-specific intruders were chased, and intra-specific intruders were able to feed at territorial feeders only when the territorial male was away. Chases of intra-specific intruders were longer and appeared to be more intense than chases of inter-specific intruders. When food was restricted territorial activity, including the total number of chases engaged in by the territory owner, was significantly reduced, although the basic characteristics of territorial behavior (e.g., chases and displays) did not change. Territory owners chased a higher proportion of inter-specific intruders when food was restricted (48%), suggesting an increase in inter-specific competition. A high proportion of intra-specific competitors continued to be chased (80%), although the total number of intra-specific intruders was lower. We believe that variations in the cost of territoriality are dependent primarily on the level of intra-specific competition. This is supported by the fact that when food was restricted to an amount that could support a maximum of 1.4 L. clemenciae (based on doubly labeled water measurements of field metabolic rate in a previous study), energy intake by the territory owner decreased from 114 kJ/day to 64 kJ/day, with the primary difference being number of intra-specific chases. These data also suggest that the exclusion of other hummingbird species might be based strictly on the amount of available food (energy). When food is restricted, inter-specific competition is more costly to the territory owner causing the exclusion of a higher proportion of inter-specific intruders. The high proportion of intra-specific intruders that are chased in either experimental condition suggests that territorial behavior in L. clemenciae might have functions other than resource protection per se, such as social functions related to their mating system.
4122502| We investigated the effects of postfire salvage logging on cavity-nesting birds by comparing nest densities and patterns of nest reuse over a three-year period in seven logged and eight unlogged patches of mixed-conifer forest in the Blackfoot-Clearwater Wildlife Management Area, Montana. We found 563 active nests of 18 cavity-nesting birds; all species were found nesting in the uncut burned forest plots, but only eight nested in the salvage-logged plots. All except one species nested at a higher density in the unlogged areas, and half of the species were significantly more abundant in the unlogged plots. Every timber-drilling and timber-gleaning species was less abundant in the salvage-logged plots, including two of the most fire-dependent species in the northern Rocky Mountains-American Three-toed (Picoides dorsalis) and Black-backed (P. arcticus) Woodpeckers. Lower abundances in salvage-logged plots occurred despite the fact that there were still more potential nest snags per hectare than the recommended minimum number needed to support maximum densities of primary cavity-nesters, which suggests that reduced woodpecker densities are more related to a reduction in food (wood-boring beetle larvae) than to nest-site availability. Because cavities were present in only four of 244 randomly selected trees, and because frequency of cavity reuse by secondary cavity-nesters was higher in salvage-logged than in unlogged plots, nest-site limitation may be a more important constraint for secondary cavity-nesters in salvage-logged areas. These results suggest that typical salvage logging operations are incompatible with the maintenance of endemic levels of most cavity-nesting bird populations, especially populations of primary cavity-nesting species. /// Investigamos los efectos de la extraccin forestal post-incendio sobre las aves que anidan en cavidades por medio de una comparacin de la densidad de nidos y los patrones de su reutilizacin. El estudio se realiz durante un periodo de tres aos, en fragmentos de bosque mixto de conferas quemados con y sin extraccin forestal (siete y ocho fragmentos, respectivamente) en el rea de Manejo de Fauna Silvestre Blackfoot-Clearwater, Montana. Encontramos 563 nidos activos pertenecientes a 18 especies; todas las especies se registraron anidando en los fragmentos de bosque quemado sin extraccin, pero slo ocho de ellas anidaron en los fragmentos quemados con extraccin. Con slo una excepcin, la densidad de nidos de todas las especies fue mayor en los fragmentos quemados sin extraccin forestal y la mitad de las especies fueron significativamente ms abundantes en los fragmentos sin extraccin. Todas las especies que obtienen su alimento perforando la corteza o buscando en ella fueron menos abundantes en los fragmentos con extraccin, incluyendo dos de las especies ms dependientes de los incendios en las Montaas Rocallosas-Picoides dorsalis y P. arcticus. Las abundancias fueron menores en los fragmentos con extraccin post-incendio, a pesar de contar con un nmero mayor de troncos por hectrea con potencial para construir nidos, en relacin con el nmero mnimo recomendado para mantener densidades mximas de aves que anidan en cavidades. Esto sugiere que la disminucin de las densidades de los pjaros carpinteros est ms relacionada con una disminucin en su alimento (larvas perforadoras de escarabajos), que con la disponibilidad de sitios de anidacin. Ya que se detectaron cavidades en slo cuatro de los 244 rboles seleccionados al azar, y dado que la tasa de reutilizacin de cavidades por parte de las especies de anidacin secundaria fue mayor en los sitios con extraccin que en sitios sin extraccin, la restriccin de sitios de anidacin puede ser un factor limitante ms importante para las especies de anidacin secundaria en los sitios con extraccin forestal post-incendio. Estos resultados sugieren que las operaciones tpicas de extraccin son incompatibles con el mantenimiento de los niveles endmicos de la mayora de las poblaciones de aves que anidan en cavidades, especialmente para poblaciones de especies de anidacin primaria. 
4122544| Ultramarine Grosbeaks (Cyanocompsa brissonii) possess a striking sexual dichromatism, with males dark blue and females brown. There are two subspecies in Argentina: the larger-bodied C. b. argentina, which is common in shrubs and semiopen areas, and the smaller C. b. sterea that inhabits forests. We measured reflectance spectra of six plumage patches from study skins to evaluate the possibility of color differences between males of each subspecies and temporal variation in plumage coloration. We found differences between subspecies in color brightness, hue, saturation, and UV chroma in the plumage patches of more conspicuous coloration, which could be related to ambient light differences between the environments that each subspecies inhabits. We also documented temporal color variation in some plumage patches, in particular a gradual decrease of UV reflectance and a gradual increase in hue after molting, possibly attributable to feather wear. /// Cyanocompsa brissonii posee un marcado dicromatismo sexual, siendo los machos de color azul oscuro y las hembras marrones. Hay dos subespecies en Argentina: C. b. argentina, de mayor tamao, que habita arbustales y reas semi-abiertas y C. b. sterea, de menor tamao corporal, que habita bosques. Medimos los espectros de reflectancia de seis parches de plumaje en pieles de estudio para evaluar la existencia de diferencias en la coloracin de los machos entre subespecies y variacin temporal en la misma. La coloracin de los parches de plumaje ms conspicuos difiri entre subespecies en brillo, tono, saturacin y reflectancia UV, lo que podra relacionarse con diferencias en la luminosidad entre los ambientes que cada subespecie habita. Tambin documentamos variacin temporal de la coloracin, en particular un decrecimiento gradual en la reflectancia UV y un aumento gradual en el tono tras la muda, posiblemente atribuible al desgaste del plumaje. 
10.2307/1368081|The central nervous system transduces behaviorally significant environmental information necessary for successful reproduction. Convergent lines of research suggest that a number of questions regarding the nature of species differences, and how these differences have been implemented over evolutionary time, can be approached through the clarification of underlying brain mechanisms. The last 15 years have yielded a host of techniques for studying the integration by the nervous system of sensory, neural, and endocrine factors mediating species typical reproductive behaviors. In this paper, we review major issues relevant to our present understanding of environmental-brain-endocrine behavior relationships in avian breeding systems, and indicate the techniques that are now available to explore neural mechanisms. Specifically, we discuss recent evidence on the localization of encephalic photoreceptors, the biological clock and its putative role in timing breeding cycles, peptidergic (gonadotropic hormone releasing hormone, GnRH, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, VIP) influences on the pituitary-gonadal axis, and the neurochemical consequences of hormone action in the avian brain.
10.1525/cond.2010.090045|While there is growing awareness in ecology of spatial dependency, the application in avian ecology of spatially explicit statistical methods is rare in areas such as habitatreproduction relationships. We compared nonspatial vs. spatially explicit tests of correlation between a measure of reproduction and a habitat attribute associated with Northern Flicker (
10.1525/cond.2009.090064|Hatching asynchrony results in age and size hierarchies within broods, and the subsequent asymmetric competition among siblings has important consequences for nestlings' fitness. In this study, we compare the growth of Barn Swallow (
10.2307/1368839|Semipalmated Sandpipers (Calidris pusilla) stop at coastal staging areas in the Canadian maritime provinces and northeastern United States to replenish fat reserves before initiating a nonstop transoceanic flight of at least 3,200 km to wintering areas in South America. The relationship between estimated fat content at capture and length of stay (days between marking and last observation) of Semipalmated Sandpipers at one of these staging areas in eastern Maine was studied during 1980-1982. Total body mass and wing chord length were used to estimate fat content. When data were analyzed by week of initial capture, mean length of stay of both adults and juveniles decreased with increasing fat content. This supports the assumption that resumption of migration is affected by fat content at staging areas for long-distance nonstop flights. However, fat content at capture was a poor predictor of length of stay, which suggests that other factors are more important in determining length of stay.
10.2307/1369357|Proximal climatic and lunar effects on arrival and departure of nocturnal migrant landbirds at Southeast Farallon Island (SEFI), California, were examined using multivariate and univariate statistics. Predictive models including date, weather and lunar variables were developed for both spring and fall, which accounted for 33-40% of variation in arrival totals and 18-21% of variation in departure proportions. Seasonal, regional, and taxonomic variation in weather- and lunar-migration relationships were assessed and, along with comparisons of arrival and departure patterns, used to differentiate proximal effects on arrival to SEFI, from widespread effects resulting in increased migration volume over California. Low wind speeds, low to moderate visibility, full cloud cover and lack of fog were proximal effects increasing arrival to SEFI, while low wind speeds, low but rising barometric pressure, clear and clearing skies, high visibility, and decreased moonlight (in fall) resulted in increased departure proportions and, presumably, caused higher migration volume over the region. Effects of wind direction and air temperature, although related to synoptic weather-migration relationships, generally had obscure or minimal direct influences on arrival and departure at SEFI. Departure proportion in spring increased with decreased departure proportion the day before, but few other delay effects between weather variables and arrival or departure were found. Seasonal, regional, and taxonomic variation in departure effects were relatively small suggesting that selection of weather-migration strategies has evolved convergently in a diverse group of migrants flying over a region the size of California.
10.2307/1369998| The gonads of equatorial stonechats in East Africa (African Stonechats, Saxicola torquata axillaris) develop in anticipation of the short rainy season, the major reproductive period. After the breeding season, gonads regress and birds undergo a complete molt. This annual cycle of reproduction and molt is based on an endogenous circannual rhythmicity that is highly sensitive to photoperiodic changes. By exposing birds to sinusoidal day-length variations with an amplitude of 7 hr, simulating in shape and amplitude those occurring at 47.5N, gonadal and molt cycles could be synchronized to periods of either 12 or 6 months. In this respect, equatorial birds behaved essentially like temperate-zone stonechats (S. t. rubicola). In both subspecies, photoperiodic synchronization results from seasonal changes in responsiveness to photoperiodic stimuli, reflected in the alternation between a state of photosensitivity and a state of photorefractoriness. When exposed to a 6-month photoperiodic cycle with an amplitude of only 1 hr and 10 min, birds of both subspecies no longer synchronized their rhythms with it. Under these conditions, the two subspecies differed in the way testis size changed after the initial phase of testicular growth: whereas the testes of most of the temperate-zone birds stayed enlarged for 6 to 11 months, those of most equatorial birds started to regress within only 2 to 3 months. This difference probably reflects evolutionary adjustments of the two subspecies to the different photoperiodic conditions prevailing in their respective breeding grounds: the equatorial birds appear to initiate refractoriness under shorter photoperiods than do the temperate-zone stonechats. It is not clear as yet whether the very small photoperiodic changes that occur at the equator are sufficient to synchronize circannual rhythms of birds in this region. Possibly the photoperiodic responsiveness of equatorial stonechats is only the unavoidable consequence of gene flow from adjacent, more northerly or more southerly populations. 
40072324|We describe survival patterns during the postfledging period for two species of grassland birds in Missouri. We monitored 155 radio-marked juvenile Dickcissels (Spiza americana) and 107 juvenile Eastern Meadowlarks (Sturnella magna; hereafter meadowlark) in southwestern Missouri, from 2002 to 2004. We used an information theoretic approach to evaluate support for biological, temporal, and spatial covariates on survival estimates using Cox proportional hazards models, and also identified cause-specific mortality. For Dickcissels, the model with biological covariates containing body mass had the lowest score using Akaike's information criterion, corrected for small sample sizes
10.2307/1370440| Long-legged Bunting (Emberiza alcoveri), a new species of extinct passerine, is described from bones found in Cueva del Viento, a volcanic cave at Tenerife in the Canary Islands. Cranial osteology situates the species at one end of the range of variation of the genus. Its reduced forelimb bones and carina sterni, long hindlimb bones, and estimated wing length, weight, and wing loading, show Long-legged Bunting to be a flightless passerine. The ratio of humerus + ulna + carpometacarpus length/femur length is similar to Stephens Island Wren (Traversia lyalli) and Long-billed Wren (Dendroscansor decurvirostris), two extinct flightless passerines from New Zealand. The reduction of presumed habitat of Long-legged Bunting, the Laurel forest, and the introduction of terrestrial predators to the island seem to be the reasons for its extinction. /// Se describe una nueva especie de paseriforme extinto, el Escribano Patilargo (Emberiza alcoveri), a partir de huesos hallados en la Cueva del Viento, un tubo volcnico de Tenerife en las Islas Canarias. La osteologa craneal de esta especie la sita en uno de los lmites de variacin del gnero. El tamao reducido de los huesos de sus alas y carina sterni, sus largas patas junto a su peso, longitud del ala y carga alar estimada, indican que el Escribano Patilargo era incapaz de volar. La relacin longitud del hmero + ulna + carpometacarpo/longitud del fmur es similar a la del Chochn de la Isla de Stephens (Traversia lyalli) y a la del Chochn de Pico Largo (Dendroscansor decurvirostris), dos paseriformes extintos no voladores de Nueva Zelanda. La reduccin de su posible hbitat, el bosque de Laurisilva, y la introduccin de predadores terrestres en la isla parecen ser las razones de su extincin. 
10.2307/1370067|The measurement of stable-carbon (<sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C) and nitrogen (<sup>15</sup>N/<sup>14</sup>N) isotope ratios in bird feathers has potential to reveal important information on trophic position and source of feeding during feather formation. This study investigated how stable-nitrogen ( <sup>15</sup>N) and carbon ( <sup>13</sup>C) isotope ratios in feathers of insectivorous songbirds and in their supporting foodwebs differed between boreal forest sites (50 feathers representing 5 species) and upland sites associated with southern prairie agro-wetland complexes in Saskatchewan and Manitoba, Canada (108 feathers representing 12 species). No difference in feather  <sup>13</sup>C values between these biomes was found, but feathers from boreal forest songbirds were depleted in <sup>15</sup>N compared to feathers from birds in southern agricultural areas. This suggests that general trophic models cannot be constructed based on  <sup>15</sup>N values of feathers of birds from these different biomes alone unless they are related first to local foodweb isotopic signatures. However, foodweb  <sup>15</sup>N analysis in each biome indicated that the stable isotope approach could be applied successfully to delineate trophic relationships involving birds. In addition, this technique will be a useful tool for investigating the degree of frugivory or nectarivory in birds.
3247753|One of the proposed explanations for the recent continental decline in Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) populations is that females experience lower survival or reproduction resulting from exposure to contaminants in their diet of exotic bivalves during migration and over winter. In 1999, we collected eggs and females from five sites in the boreal forest of Canada and Alaska and four sites in Canadian parkland. We analyzed eggs from 60 clutches and ten nesting females for toxic metals, selenium, 19 pesticides and other organochlorines, and 43 polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners. The highest organochlorine concentration we measured was 1.5 g g
10.2307/1369534|Intraspecific variation in nutrient reserves is believed to affect reproductive success of female waterfowl during egg laying and incubation (the nutrient-limitation hypothesis). We tested the nutrient-limitation hypothesis in Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria) and Redheads (A. americana) by relating the body masses of incubating females with subsequent nest success, brood survival, and adult survival. Our analyses were based on 392 Canvasbacks and 76 Redheads captured and weighed during late incubation in southwestern Manitoba during 1983-1993. For Canvasbacks, there was a significant interaction between body mass and age; failed adults (ASY) weighed 3 g more than successful adults (P = 0.65), but failed yearlings (SY) weighed 37 g less than successful yearlings (P = 0.03). For Redheads, nest success was unrelated to body mass. For both species, brood survival and adult survival (i.e., return rates) were unrelated to female body mass. Thus, future reproductive success was correlated with body mass in only one out of seven test comparisons (i.e., nest success of yearling Canvasbacks). Although we had large sample sizes and used similar methods, our results were notably different from a previous study of prairie dabbling ducks (Anas spp.), where light-weight females were more likely to experience nest failure. For both studies, we believe that investigator-induced nest abandonment was an important cause of condition-dependent nest failure. We conclude that nutrient reserves were of minor importance in determining future reproductive success of adult Canvasbacks and Redheads, but may be important for yearlings.
10.2307/1368148|We studied dispersal in a color-banded population of the Groove-billed Ani (Crotophaga sulcirostris) in Costa Rica. Eight percent of the young alive at the end of the breeding season bred on their natal territories the next year and 4% remained but did not breed. Thirteen percent dispersed successfully within the study area and bred in communal groups or simple pairs. The remaining 75% of the young birds disappeared from the study area. Young males remained in the study area as breeders more frequently than did young females. Breeding dispersal occurred, with at least 9% of the adult population moving to a new territory each year. We used a demographic model to estimate the following dispersal fates for young birds. For both males and females, 62% of the young alive at the end of the breeding season in which they hatched obtained a breeding position the next year. Of those that dispersed from their natal territories, 59 to 70% of the males and 64 to 74% of the females obtained breeding positions. Of those that bred the year after they hatched, 22% of the males and 2% of the females bred in their natal units, 34% of the males and 6% of the females bred within the study area but outside their natal units, and 44% of the males and 92% of the females bred outside the study area. We estimated that all of the males and 28% of the females that bred the year after they hatched were within three territories of their natal sites.
10.2307/1369135|Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) eggs were collected from ten colonies between Clinton, Iowa and Royalton, Minnesota on the Mississippi River in 1993, a year of record floods in the midwestern United States. In the five southernmost colonies where record flooding occurred, Great Blue Herons initiated nesting two weeks later than herons nesting in the five northernmost colonies that were less affected by flooding. The southern nests had a smaller average clutch size than the northern nests, but egg size was similar between south and north. Weather patterns in 1993 were similar between northern and southern colonies. We suspect that flooding of the available feeding habitat influenced nest initiation and clutch size. Data from 1995, a year without record flooding on the Mississippi River, support this hypothesis. In 1995, timing of nesting and number of eggs per clutch were similar between sites that had record flooding and sites that were less affected by flooding in 1993.
1369693| We measured field metabolic rate of nestling Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) in northern Wisconsin, using doubly-labeled water. In inland northern Wisconsin and along the Wisconsin Lake Superior shore, eaglets aged 39-60 days, weighing 3.08-4.85 kg, expended an average of 2,427  100 kJ day
10.1525/cond.2012.110058|We describe the courtship displays and sonations of a male hybrid Broad-tailed  Black-chinned Hummingbird (
10.2307/1369284| Intraspecific nest parasitism was studied in the Hudson Bay race of the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima sedentaria), near Churchill, Manitoba (5824N, 9424W). Nest parasitism was detected by three methods: (1) multiple eggs laid in the same nest on a single day, (2) eggs laid before or after the host's clutch was laid, and (3) large within-clutch variances in egg size and color. It was determined that 42.4% (n = 153) of completed clutches were parasitized. Parasitic eggs were laid significantly earlier in the host's laying sequence than expected by chance: 65% of parasitic eggs were laid on the first two days of laying. Number of parasitic eggs laid, as a proportion of all eggs, did not change significantly throughout the laying period. The probability of parasitic and host eggs hatching was not significantly different from that in unparasitized nests. Hosts did not reduce their clutch size in response to parasitism, when data were controlled for initiation date, nor did they hatch any fewer of their own young for a given clutch size than unparasitized nests. Parasitized nests were found in areas with higher densities (number of neighbors within 10 m) at initiation. Parasitism in this species does not appear to be a salvage strategy and may be part of a mixed or conditional strategy. 
10.2307/1370195|I tested the hypothesis that bright colors may function as signals of status during the nonbreeding season, offsetting possible costs associated with such traits. Male Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) do not defend territories during the nonbreeding season and unfamiliar individuals interact over food resources. To test whether red coloration functions as a signal of status among unfamiliar individuals, I manipulated male coloration by a reddening, a lightening, or a sham control treatment to decouple color from other characteristics that might influence dominance. I observed interactions among males from these treatment groups at a single food source. During the trials, dominant individuals gained mass at a higher rate than subordinant individuals, suggesting a benefit of dominance. There was no effect of treatment or manipulated coloration on the initial or final dominance rank, indicating that males are not using red coloration as a signal of status. However, in the final dominance rank, males with naturally redder plumage were more dominant to those that originally had duller plumage. These results suggest that although red coloration is an indicator of dominance, adult males are not using it alone as a signal of status in controlling food resources.
10.1525/cond.2010.090242|Theory predicts that parents should invest less in dependent offspring with lower reproductive value, such as those with a high risk of predation. Moreover, high predation risk can favor reduced parental activity when such activity attracts nest predators. Yet, the ability of parents to assess ambient nest-predation risk and respond adaptively remains unclear, especially where nest-predator assemblages are diverse and potentially difficult to assess. We tested whether variation in parental investment by a multi-brooded songbird (Brewer's Sparrow,
10.2307/1368917|The spatial distribution of high and low quality Painted Bunting (Passerina ciris) territories on St. Catherines Island, Georgia, was determined through an examination of the distribution of food resources and polygynous pairings in 1976 and 1977. Based on the distribution of high and low quality territories, we predicted the pattern of territory settlement by males at the start of the breeding season. As predicted, males settled significantly earlier on high quality than on low quality territories in 1978 and 1979. However, not all males that initially acquired high quality territories were able to maintain them long enough to breed on them. Most of these males, which were subsequently displaced by returning site-faithful males, were settling for the first time on the study area, although some were returning males that had held low quality territories the previous year. New breeders and some returners initially settled in a pattern consistent with predictions based on territory quality; most returning males settled on the basis of site fidelity. Thus, the final settlement pattern was the result of an interaction between preference for areas of high quality and the return and site faithfulness of previous territory holders. The implications of this pattern of territory acquisition for the evolution of delayed maturation in males are discussed.
10.2307/1369862| We used radio telemetry to study renesting by wild, free-ranging Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) on the coastal Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta in 1994 and 1995. Fifty-six percent of females (n = 39) renested at least once. Propensity to renest declined among females that initiated later first nests. Renesting interval was not related to female weight, year, or initiation date of first nests. Mean interval between first and second nests was 11.4  1.0 days, and mean interval between second and third nests was 11.3  1.5 days. Median distance observed between first and second nest attempts was 276 m (range 33-6,098 m). Clutch size declined 2.3  0.4 eggs between first and second nests. Weight of females captured on first nests in early incubation declined with nest initiation date. Our results suggest that food availability does not limit renesting ability of pintails in coastal tundra. 
10.2307/1369527|This paper seeks to clarify the ecological and evolutionary impacts of foraging for arthropods vs. nectar in hummingbirds, using data on morphology, sites, and tactics of arthropod foraging, and prey taken by 11 species of hummingbirds of La Selva, a Costa Rican lowland wet forest, as well as information on time budgets of male and female hummingbirds from two other sites. Hermit hummingbirds have long, curved bills and are nearly exclusively understory hover-gleaners that take mostly spiders. Most glean from webs but Threnetes ruckeri differs in foraging behavior and takes mostly jumping spiders. Non-hermits have shorter, straighter bills and employ a greater range of foraging tactics and sites, taking a wider variety of prey. In most species flycatching is frequent and flies and wasps are the predominant prey items, but some also take many spiders and ants; in particular, Heliothryx barroti is predominantly a hover-gleaner of the canopy and takes more spiders than flies. In Thalurania colombica, males and females differ in sites and tactics of arthropod foraging during the breeding season but not at other times. Breeding female hummingbirds spend much more time foraging for arthropods than do males in the same times and places, although flower visitation still constitutes the majority of foraging time. Among La Selva hummingbirds, bill curvature is strongly correlated with the proportion of gleaning vs. hawking, and with the proportion of prey taken from the substrate (spiders, ants) as opposed to volant prey (flies, wasps). Broad wings (low aspect ratio) and high wing disk loading are correlated with hovering, gleaning, and the proportion of spiders and ants in the diet; narrow wings and high wing disk loading, with flycatching. Except for the three species that engage in the most flycatching, females have broader wings than males and in virtually all species, females have higher wing disk loading. However, no parameter of wing morphology shows a clear relationship to strategies of nectar exploitation, probably reflecting the facultative nature of the latter. Hermits and nonhermits differ strongly in their preferred foraging levels in the vegetation, both for nectar and for arthropods, with the former using the understory almost exclusively, the latter using the canopy to a much greater extent, in both forest and second growth. Nevertheless, the two groups do not differ in the proportion of foraging attempts for nectar vs. arthropods, nor in the distribution of foraging through the day, in either habitat. In nearly all species, bills of females are longer than those of males, and this could increase their ability to forage for arthropods at least as much as for nectar. Much of the controversy regarding frequency and energetic importance of arthropod foraging vs. flower visitation reflects the biases inherent in observing each type of foraging or in interpreting data from stomach contents or emetic samples, or from failure to consider the specific tactics of foraging for arthropods. Reports that hummingbirds can exist for extended periods or breed without access to nectar or alternative sugar sources require confirmation, as does a report that availability of arthropods rather than nectar determines hummingbird breeding seasonality in dry areas. The major impact of arthropods in hummingbirds' diets appears to be at the daily, rather than seasonal, level. Data on arthropod prey do not support the notion that hummingbirds visit flowers for insects rather than nectar, and there is no evidence to suggest that their bills are specialized for extracting insects from flowers. Rather, it appears that the bills of hummingbirds are adapted to extracting nectar from particular types of flowers, and that these bill specializations in turn constrain the tactics of arthropod foraging--in particular, the long, curved bills of the hermits might preclude effective flycatching. Selection on wing morphology from flower visitation might well be mostly indirect, via constraints on arthropod foraging tactics imposed by bill morphology, rather than directly through nectar foraging strategies. There is no basis for considering hermits to be more insectivorous than nonhermits; they represent a separate radiation within the Trochilidae, in a different habitat and in association with a different group of flowers, than do several major radiations of the nonhermits.
40072390|Understanding the patterns, extent, and phenology of migration is important for estimating potential influences of habitat or climate changes on populations of migratory birds. We used satellite telemetry of >100 individual King Eiders (
4096524| Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) plunge dive into water to capture fish with highly distensible pouches. During prey capture, the pouch may expand to hold 11 L of water and the mandibular rami may bow from a resting position of 5 cm to over 15 cm. We compared mineralization of two bending regions of the mandible with a nonbending region, and examined cross-sectional morphology to determine if mineral content and shape play a role in mandibular bending. A rostral bending zone, adjacent to the mandibular symphysis, possessed only about 20% mineral content, significantly less than the lateral bending zone and the rigid caudal mandible, both comprised of over 50% mineral content. Additionally, the rostral zone was solid in cross section, facilitating bending, whereas the lateral zone was made up of bones joined by connective tissue. This latter morphology permits movement between the bones even though there was relatively high mineralization. We suggest that mineral content may be an overlooked component to cranial kinesis in birds. /// Los pelcanos Pelecanus occidentalis se zambullen en el agua para capturar peces utilizando bolsas bucales muy distensibles. Durante la captura de la presa, la bolsa bucal se puede expandir para contener hasta 11 litros de agua y las ramas mandibulares se pueden arquear desde una posicin de descanso de 5 cm hasta ms de 15 cm. En este estudio, comparamos la mineralizacin de dos regiones mandibulares que se arquean con una regin rgida que no se arquea y examinamos la morfologa transversal para determinar si el contenido mineral y la forma desempean una funcin al arquear la mandbula. Una zona de doblado rostral adyacente a la snfisis mandibular posee un contenido mineral de aproximadamente el 20%, lo que representa una mineralizacin significativamente menor que la de la zona lateral de doblado y la seccin caudal rgida de la mandbula, las cuales contienen ms de un 50% de minerales. Adicionalmente, la zona rostral tiene una seccin transversal s lida que facilita su arqueamiento, mientras que la zona lateral est compuesta de huesos unidos por tejido conectivo. Esta ltima morfologa permite el movimiento entre los huesos aunque exista una alta mineralizacin. Sugerimos que el contenido mineral puede ser un componente de la quinesis cranial de las aves que es frecuentemente ignorado. 
1370031| We assessed the relationship between function and tail structure of woodcreepers (Dendrocolaptidae) and Neotropical ovenbirds (Furnariidae) using a comparative analysis of independent contrasts. Because woodcreepers are scansorial (they use their tail for body support), we predicted that the structure of the rectrix rachis should be reinforced both at the tip and at the base, whereas the nonscansorial Neotropical ovenbirds should lack reinforcement of the rectrix tips. For each species, we measured the length of the rachis of the medial rectrix and its diameter both at the tip and base of the feather. Rachis diameters were positively associated with body mass in both groups as expected if tail structure were a simple allometric product of body size. However, woodcreepers had larger rachis diameters for a given body mass and higher slopes in the allometric regressions than Neotropical ovenbirds. In addition, we found positive relationships between rachis width at both the tip and base of the rectrix and tail length in woodcreepers, but in Neotropical ovenbirds only rachis width at the base was associated with tail length. These results considered together are consistent with the hypothesis that the tip of the woodcreeper tail rachis is adapted to both support body mass and to prevent Euler buckling failure. /// Se evalu la relacin entre la funcin y la estructura de la cola en los trepadores (Dendrocolaptidae) y los furnridos (Furnariidae) usando un anlisis comparativo de contrastes independientes. Debido a que los trepadores son escansoriales (es decir que usan su cola para el soporte del cuerpo), se predijo que la estructura del raquis de la rectriz debera estar reforzada tanto en la punta como en la base mientras que la de los furnridos que no son escansoriales debera carecer del reforzamiento en la punta. Para cada especie se midi el largo del raquis de la rectriz medial y su dimetro, tanto en la punta como en la base de la pluma. Los dimetros del raquis estuvieron positivamente asociados con la masa corporal en ambos grupos, tal como se esperara si la cola fuera el simple producto de una relacin alomtrica con el tamao corporal. Sin embargo, los dimetros del raquis para una dada masa corporal y las pendientes de las regresiones alomtricas fueron mayores en los trepadores que en los furnridos. Adems, se encontraron relaciones postivas entre el ancho del raquis en la punta y en la base de la rectriz y el largo de la cola en trepadores, pero solamente el ancho del raquis en la base estuvo asociado con el largo de la cola en furnridos. Estos resultados considerados en su conjunto son consistentes con la hiptesis de que la punta del raquis en la cola de los trepadores est adaptada para soportar la masa corporal y prevenir el pandeo de Euler. 
40306134|Infestations of bird blow flies (
1370705| We examined how Andean Condors (Vultur gryphus) segregate by sex and age in summer and autumn at a communal roost in the Patagonian Andes. Preferred roosting places received earlier sun at sunrise (summer) and later sun at sunset (autumn); sheltered crevices were also selected. Individuals strongly competed for preferred places: adults dominated juveniles and within each age class males dominated females. Although individuals preferred roosting places independent of their dominance status, fighting and subsequent relocating led to a defined social structure at the roost. Sunny exposures may allow occupants to maximize time available for foraging, plumage care, and maintenance, and to avoid cold stress. Irregularity in the spatial distribution and aggregation patterns of Andean Condors may be the result of requirements for roosting. Availability of adequate roost places should be considered in conservation programs. /// Examinamos la segregacin de individuos de Vultur gryphus en un dormidero communal en los Andes patagnicos con relacin a la edad, el sexo y la estacin del ao. Los lugares preferidos para dormir fueron aquellos que recibieron la luz del sol ms temprano al amanecer (verano) o temprano al amanecer y tarde al anochecer (otoo). Las oquedades abrigadas fueron tambin seleccionadas. Las aves compitieron por los lugares preferidos: los adultos dominaron a los jvenes, mientras que dentro de cada clase de edad dominaron los machos. Aunque los lugares preferidos eran seleccionados inicialmente por aves de cualquier sexo y edad, las peleas y recolocaciones subsiguientes dieron lugar a una estructuracin social en el dormidero. La preferencia por exposiciones soleadas puede reportar ventajas en la maximizacin del nmero de horas disponible para volar en busca de alimento, en el cuidado y mantenimiento del plumaje y en la reduccin del estrs trmico derivado de las bajas temperaturas. Los requerimientos asociados a los dormideros pueden determinar patrones irregulares en la distribucin y agregacin de la especie a lo largo de su rea de distribucin. La disponibilidad de dormideros adecuados debe ser considerada en programas de conservacin. 
10.2307/1368994| Retrograde movement of urine from the coprodeum to the colon and ceca in birds can be important in the recovery of water and NaCl. Water can be gained both from hypotonic luminal fluid and from hypertonic fluid as long as the rate of Na
10.2307/1366809|Data from 133 specimens of three species of steamer-duck were used to assess sexual size dimorphism in the genus Tachyeres. In these three species, males on the average exceed females in all of the 15 external, 30 skeletal, and 2 muscular measurements analyzed, except number of bill lamellae. Sexual dimorphism is proportionately greatest in weights, intermediate in areal variables, and least in linear measurements. With few exceptions, magnitude of univariate sexual dimorphism is equal in the three species and among localities for T. patachonicus, although differences in magnitude of multivariate sexual dimorphism are indicated. Multivariate comparisons show that males are not only larger than females but also that, proportionately, males have larger core elements and smaller crania, proximal wing elements, and acetabular widths than females. The robust trunks and proportionately shorter wings of males may reflect structural refinements for combat; relatively large acetabular widths of females may be an accommodation for producing and laying large eggs. We hypothesize that sexual dimorphism of steamer-ducks results from the combined effects of largely linear and environmentally stable habitats; strong selection in males for territorial defense of food supplies, mates, and young; and, possibly, selection for smaller body size in females related to reproductive energetics. The greater number of bill lamellae in females than males probably allows the large, territorially active males to feed more on large food items, whereas females are equipped to utilize smaller food items.
10.2307/1370412| We studied Double-toothed Kites (Harpagus bidentatus) in tropical lowland forest at Tikal National Park, Petn, Guatemala, documenting behavior and diet during the incubation and nestling periods. These 200-g kites are Accipiter-like in form and strikingly size-dimorphic for a kite. Modal clutch size was two, producing 0.63 fledglings per nesting attempt and 1.25 per successful nest. Nesting was largely synchronous among pairs, with hatching during the first month of the rainy season and fledging one month later. Incubation lasted 42-45 days and nestlings fledged at 29.5 days on average. A radio-tagged fledgling was fed near the nest for 35 days; 6-8 weeks after fledging it dispersed at least 10 km, presumably reaching independence. Males did not incubate or brood, and rarely fed nestlings directly. Males typically provided most but not all prey (mainly lizards) during incubation and early nestling periods. Insects in the nestling diet increased through the nestling period as females increasingly hunted, often bringing in insects. These kites hunted from perches, below and within the closed canopy of tall, mature forest, taking 60.5% insects, 38.1% lizards, and 1.4% other vertebrates; vertebrates comprised at least 75% of prey biomass. Most prey were taken from vegetation, but prey in flight also were captured. Active, adjacent nests averaged 1.35 km apart, for a maximum density estimate of 0.60 pairs km
10.2307/1369712| Relative abundance, timing of breeding and molting, annual survival, and philopatry of an introduced population of Red-billed Leiothrix (Leiothrix lutea) were studied at four sites on the island of Hawaii. Numbers of leiothrix on our study areas showed a regular cyclical pattern, with highest numbers during the breeding season. Peak breeding occurred May-August, followed by peak molting of flight and body feathers in August-October. Flocking behavior increased post-breeding, and many leiothrix left the study areas during the fall and winter months. Populations on two intensive study areas were stable, with high annual survival (x  SE = 0.581  0.115 for hatching-year birds and 0.786  0.047 for adults). Leiothrix seem to be relatively unaffected by avian diseases that have decimated some Hawaiian bird populations, and yet reasons for their large historical population fluctuations remain unexplained. 
40072338|Avian biologists routinely estimate sampling variance for parameter estimates such as daily nest survival, fecundity, annual survival, and density. However, many biologists are not certain of methods to derive sampling variance for parameters when survival rates change temporal scales. Similar methods are needed to obtain sampling variance when biologists combine parameter estimates to calculate an indirect demographic parameter, such as population growth rate. The delta method is a useful technique for approximating sampling variance when the desired demographic parameter is a function of at least one other demographic parameter. However, the delta method is rarely taught in most graduate-level biology or ecology courses, and application of this method may be discouraged by seemingly daunting formulas in reference books. Here, I provide five examples of sampling variance approximations for common situations encountered by avian ecologists, with step-by-step explanations of the equations involved. /// Los bilogos que estudian aves estiman la varianza muestral para los estimados de parmetros como la supervivencia diaria, la fecundidad, la supervivencia anual o la densidad. Sin embargo, muchos biolgos no tienen la certeza sobre los mtodos adecuados para derivar la varianza muestral para los parmetros cuando las tasas de super-vivencia cambian de escala temporal. Mtodos similares son requeridos para obtener la varianza muestral cuando se combinan estimados de parmetros para calcular un parametro demogrfico indirecto como la tasa de crecimiento poblacional. El mtodo delta es una tcnica til para aproximar la varianza muestral cuando el parmetro demogrfico deseado es funcin de por lo menos un otro parmetro demogrfico. Sin embrago, el mtodo delta es enseado en raras ocasiones en cursos de biologa o ecologa de nivel de post-grado, y la aplicacin de este mtodo en muchos casos es desincentivada debido a las formulas aparentemente complicadas que aparecen en libros de referencia. Aqu brindo cinco ejemplos para la aproximacin de la varianza muestral en situaciones a las cuales se pueden enfrentar comnmente los eclogos de aves con explicaciones paso a paso de las ecuaciones involucradas.
10.2307/1370064|We report on the habitat associations of 21 species of grassland birds overwintering in or migrating through southern Texas, during 1991-1992 and 1992-1993. Ninety percent of our grassland bird observations were made during winter and spring, and only 10% occurred during fall. Grassland species made up a high proportion of the total bird densities in grassland and shrub-grassland habitats, but much lower proportions in the habitats with more woody vegetation. Fewer grassland species were observed in grassland and woodland than in brushland, parkland, and shrub-grassland habitats. Grassland birds generally were found in higher densities in habitats that had woody canopy coverage of < 30%; densities of grassland birds were highest in shrub-grassland habitat and lowest in woodland habitat. Species that are grassland specialists on their breeding grounds tended to be more habitat specific during the nonbreeding season compared to shrub-grassland specialists, which were more general in their nonbreeding-habitat usage. Nonetheless, our data demonstrate that grassland birds occur in a variety of habitats during the nonbreeding season and seem to occupy a broader range of habitats than previously described.
10.2307/1368952|Females of at least 15 species of North American passerines give distinctive nest departure calls. These calls consist of a series of notes uttered while flying away from the nest. Less often, the call is given while flying to the nest. It is heard during nest-building, incubation, brooding, and nestling care. The behavior is found in emberizid finches and icterines in North America, and possibly muscicapids (Sylviinae) in Europe. It occurs almost exclusively in birds nesting in marshes or grasslands. Birds giving this call could incur a great cost if predators locate nests using these calls. Proposed benefits of calling include reduction of harassment by males, discouragement of settlement by females, promotion of anti-predatory vigilance by mates, advertisement of receptivity for copulation, and distraction of potential predators away from the nest. The reduction of harassment and increased vigilance hypotheses have the strongest support. The behavior is more common in species in which visibility of birds close to the ground is poor and in which the intra-sexual competition among males is intense which thus increases the risk that an already mated female will be mistaken for an intruding male.
10.1525/cond.2011.100056|Riparian woodlands of aspen (
10.2307/1367946| We used mist nets in a capture-recapture demographic study of the birds of an isolated relict grove of ponderosa pines (Blue Sky) on Hart Mountain in southern Oregon. Cassin's Finches (Carpodacus cassinii), usually considered nomadic, returned each spring. Females were more faithful to breeding site than males. As evidenced by cloacal swelling and incubation patch formation, 96% of females laid eggs in the 18 days following 24 May. When June snow storms destroyed most nests in 1975 and 1979, many females attempted second nestings. Most apparently abandoned these second nestings in early July when the finches left Blue Sky to wander more widely over Hart Mountain while they underwent their annual molts. Most yearling females and males were sexually active and apparently nested. Although obscured by reduced mobility of females during incubation and early brooding, the sex ratio was close to 50/50. There were 20 to 25 pairs per hectare of suitable (pine) finch habitat. Breeding density may be limited by the zone around the female that is defended by the male during nest-site selection and nest building. The minimum annual survival rate for finches one year old and older was 0.64 (SE =  0.02) for males and 0.60 (SE =  0.03) for females. 
10.2307/1369905|In most birds, males competing for paternity of a female's offspring attempt copulations most frequently immediately before fertilization. Paternity is determined by the relative numbers and timing of inseminations such that a male inseminating a female frequently at this time has an increased chance of fathering her offspring. In the Northern Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis), fertilization is believed to occur within a few days prior to laying, but extra-pair and pair copulations and paternity defense behaviors start to decline around 20 days before egg laying, and by 9 days prior to egg laying these behaviors are at a minimum. I suggest that inseminations occurring during and after the time of this decline may have a reduced chance of successfully fertilizing eggs due to physiological constraints within the female's reproductive tract.
10.2307/1368919|Breeding Indigo Buntings (Passerina cyanea) were sampled by pectoral muscle biopsy for electrophoretic analysis, and their breeding success and survival were compared with buntings that were only handled and color-banded and with buntings banded in an earlier year. Behavioral and reproductive comparisons showed little difference in males or in females among the three groups. First-year males were more likely to disappear (and presumably to disperse to a new breeding site) after being caught and biopsied before breeding than after being caught and only marked. Mating and fledging success of breeding buntings was not affected by biopsy or by capture and marking. Annual survival of adults was independent of biopsy. Nestling buntings survived to fledging equally well in biopsied and in banded broods, but were less likely to survive when their mother was netted near the nest than when she was not, due to predation. Buntings biopsied as nestlings returned and bred in the study area but at a lower incidence than control buntings banded as nestlings. Muscle biopsy appears to be a nondestructive technique that is compatible with most aspects of long-term population studies of small songbirds.
10.1525/cond.2010.100148|We used double sampling to estimate densities of Rusty Blackbird (
10.1525/cond.2012.110194|Why many animals display several different kinds of ornaments has been of recent interest in animal-communication research. Three key hypotheses have been suggested: multiple ornaments can function as (1) multiple messages (each ornament provides different information), (2) redundant messages or back-up signals (all ornaments provide the same information), and (3) unreliable signals (no information). Here we tested the signal properties of ornamental traits of male House Sparrows (
10.2307/1367671|Nest site characteristics, breeding phenology, productivity, and mortality factors were evaluated from 1974 to 1976 for the Crested Auklet (Aethia cristatella), the Least Auklet (A. pusilla), and the Whiskered Auklet (A. pygmaea), which nested together in a colony at Buldir Island in subarctic Alaska. These species were compared and data from Buldir were compared with those from previous studies at an arctic colony. The auklets actively competed for nest sites and differed in their choice of site substrates. Crested Auklets, the largest of the three, used the largest nest crevices. Breeding activities occurred on Buldir from mid-May to mid-August. Crested Auklets had a slightly longer nesting period than the other species. Reproductive success (fledglings/eggs) was approximately 50% for Crested and Least auklets, and apparently higher for Whiskered Auklets. Little predation on eggs or chicks was recorded, but avian predators were the major cause of adult auklet mortality.
10.2307/1368601|I measured within-clutch egg-size variability for 3,219 American Coot (Fulica americana) eggs from 357 completed clutches, and I determined relative egg volume for 882 eggs of known laying sequence from 233 completed clutches ranging from five to 13 eggs. Within-clutch variation was unrelated to mean egg size, clutch size, laying date, year, and nesting attempt, but was slightly affected by supplemental food. Relative egg size increased with laying sequence for the first two to five eggs, then declined for the remainder of the clutch. Variation in relative egg volume with laying sequence was essentially unaffected by year, laying date, and supplemental feeding, but differed among initial nests, renests, and continuation nests. Most previous work on within-clutch variation in egg size has focused on the last-laid egg, and patterns of variation in the size of this egg typically have been evaluated in the context of hatching asynchrony. However, no single adaptive hypothesis appears capable of explaining the pattern of intraclutch egg-size variation observed in American Coots, and I conclude that this pattern may result from physiological constraints.
10.2307/1368742|We studied the carcass composition of Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors) and Northern Pintails (A. acuta) wintering in Yucatan, Mexico from October through March 1986-1987 and 1987-1988. Patterns of body mass and lipid reserves in Yucatan were similar to patterns reported in ducks (including conspecifics) wintering farther north. However, on average, ducks in Yucatan weighed 5-22% less and carried smaller energy reserves. We argue that an endogenous mechanism is the primary factor controlling the cyclic pattern of body mass and carcass composition of ducks during winter, but that environmental conditions are the proximate cause responsible for the observed geographical variation in the amplitude of changes.
10.1525/cond.2012.110116|Group differences in avian space use relate to group differences in resource use and demographic parameters. However, studies that consider year-round, intraspecific variation in the space use of noncooperatively breeding species are relatively rare. A greater understanding of factors relating to intraspecific variation in space use is especially important for managing human-subsidized predators, such as the Common Raven (
10.1525/cond.2010.100012|Probably always rare and local because of its ecology and specialized habitat, the small, isolated population of the Orange-breasted Falcon (
10.2307/1369863|Migration and molt are both energy demanding activities and can be expected to conflict with each other in migratory birds. We studied autumn migrating juvenile Blue Tits (Parus caeruleus) and investigated whether molting birds showed signs of diseases or physiological stress to a larger degree than non-molting individuals. There was no evidence that molting birds were more stressed than non-molting individuals, as hematocrit, red blood cell sedimentation rate and the size of subcutaneous fat stores were similar for birds in both groups. However, birds with high levels of subcutaneous fat had low sedimentation rate levels and high hematocrit values, indicating that the level of fat of an individual is associated with its state of health. Birds with large fat stores were more brightly colored than birds with smaller fat stores, suggesting a link between nutritional conditions experienced during molt and the size of fat stores during the subsequent migration. Taken together, our data indicate that fat deposit size in migrating birds might be affected by their current health status, as well as conditions experienced during molt.
4122512| The Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) is a high profile, federally threatened seabird, but no reliable estimates of population trends at inland breeding areas exist for this species. We conducted land-based radar studies of Marbled Murrelets at 3-7 sites on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington, in 1996-2002 and 2004 to estimate population changes and to examine relationships between our counts and oceanographic conditions, murrelet productivity, and regional at-sea counts of murrelets. Morning radar counts of murrelets varied significantly among and within sites but did not decline from 1996-2004, suggesting that the inland breeding population of murrelets is stable in this area. A retrospective power analysis indicated that we had a 25% and 56% chance of detecting 2% and 4% annual declines, respectively. Thus, if relatively small annual declines did occur during our study period, there is a high probability that they would have gone undetected, even though they could add up to a biologically important decline over time. It is unlikely that murrelets on the Olympic Peninsula declined by 6% annually, however, because retrospective analyses indicated that power to detect such declines was >88%. There was no significant relationship between radar counts and at-sea counts or productivity of murrelets in the nearby San Juan Islands during the study period. We also did not detect a relationship between radar counts and mean sea-surface temperatures or the Northern Oscillation Index, suggesting that variation in oceanographic conditions (e.g., the strong 1998 El Nio event) was not associated with variation in morning radar counts of Marbled Murrelets. A prospective power analysis indicated that small (2%-4%) annual declines could be detected with reasonably high power (80%) with the current radar sampling design by extending the study to 11-15 years. /// Brachyramphus marmoratus es un ave marina destacada que se encuentra amenazada a nivel federal. A pesar de esto, no existen estimaciones confiables sobre las tendencias poblacionales de esta especie en las reas reproductivas continentales. Realizamos estudios de B. marmoratus con radares ubicados en el continente en 3 a 7 sitios de Olympic Peninsula, Washington, entre 1996 y 2002, y en 2004, para estimar los cambios poblacionales y para examinar las relaciones entre nuestros conteos y las condiciones oceanogrficas, la productividad de B. marmoratus y los conteos marinos regionales de esta especie. Los conteos por radar matutinos variaron significativamente entre y dentro de los sitios, pero no disminuyeron entre 1996 y 2004, sugiriendo que las poblacin reproductiva continental de B. marmoratus permanece estable en esta rea. Un anlisis retrospectivo de poder indic que tuvimos una probabilidad del 25% y del 56% de detectar disminuciones anuales del 2% y 4%, respectivamente. De este modo, si se presentaron disminuciones anuales relativamente menores durante nuestro periodo de estudio, existe una alta probabilidad de que no fueran detectadas, incluso aunque su efecto se hubiera acumulado hasta tener consecuencias biolgicas importantes. Sin embargo, es poco probable que B. marmoratus haya disminuido anualmente en un 6% o ms en Olympic Peninsula, debido a que los anlisis retrospectivos indicaron que el poder para detectar estas disminuciones fue mayor al 88%. No hubo una relacin significativa de los conteos por radar con los conteos en el mar o con la productividad de B. marmoratus en las vecinas Islas de San Juan durante el periodo de estudio. Tampoco detectamos una relacin entre los conteos por radar con la temperatura media superficial del mar, ni con el ndice de Oscilacin del Norte, sugiriendo que la variacin en las condiciones oceanogrficas (e.g., el fuerte evento de El Nio de 1998) no estuvo asociada con la variacin en los conteos. Un anlisis retrospectivo de poder indic que pequeas disminuciones anuales (2%-4%) podran ser detectadas con un poder razonablemente alto (80%) con el diseo actual de muestreo por radar, mediante la extensin del estudio por 11 a 15 aos ms. 
10.2307/1367393|A comparison has been made between 23 song types recorded from Chaffinches in Stanmer Great Wood, Sussex, U.K. in 1960, and the total of 36 that were sung there in 1978. Eight of the earlier song types showed clear similarities with those present in 1978: in three of these the differences were minor, but in the other five they were substantial enough for the songs to have been classified as different types had they been found in the same population at the same time. With all other song types, the differences were too great for song types to be compared between the two sets of recordings. While at any one time some song types are shared in more or less identical form among many individuals in a population of Chaffinches, these results show that the form of song types changes through time. These changes may occur because rare song types are not copied by other birds and become extinct in the area, because new song types are introduced from elsewhere by birds moving into the area and because mistakes in copying may lead to new song types being generated.
4123212| Nest predation is thought to play an important role in structuring certain breeding bird communities. One potential consequence of nest predation is lower recruitment in breeding birds, which may be manifested as lower breeding bird abundance. Lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta ssp. latifolia) forests east and west of the Rocky Mountains became isolated following glacial retreat 12000 years ago and differ in whether or not red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), which are a key nest predator, are present. Breeding bird abundance in lodgepole pine forests was compared between four ranges with red squirrels and four ranges without red squirrels. Species grouped into canopy and understory nesting guilds were, on average, two and three times more abundant, respectively, in forest ranges without red squirrels than in ranges with red squirrels; no statistically significant differences were found for midstory, ground, or cavity nesters. These results suggest that geographic variation in the presence or absence of red squirrels is likely important in structuring breeding bird communities in lodgepole pine forests across the landscape. /// Se cree que la depredacin de nidos juega un papel importante en la estructuracin de algunas comunidades de aves nidificantes. Una posible consecuencia de la depredacin de nidos es un menor reclutamiento, lo que podra manifestarse en trminos de una menor abundancia de aves reproductivas. Los bosques dominados por el pino Pinus contorta ssp. latifolia que se encuentran al este y al oeste de las Montaas Rocallosas se aislaron luego del desplazamiento de los glaciares hace 12000 aos, y difieren en cuanto a la presencia de la ardilla Tamiasciurus hudsonicus, un depredador de nidos clave. Se compar la abundancia de aves nidificantes entre cuatro reas de bosque de pino con ardillas y cuatro reas sin ardillas. Las especies pertenecientes a gremios que nidifican en el dosel y el sotobosque fueron en promedio dos y tres veces ms abundantes, respectivamente, en los bosques sin ardillas que en los bosques con ardillas. No existieron diferencias significativas en la abundancia de las especies que nidifican en los estratos medios de la vegetacin, en el suelo o en cavidades. Estos resultados sugieren que la variacin geogrfica en la presencia o ausencia de T. hudsonicus probablemente es importante en la estructuracin a escala de paisaje de las comunidades de aves nidificantes de los bosques de pino. 
4501002| In birds, changing mates generally results in decreased breeding success. Although costs and benefits of pair break-up have been well studied, endocrine mechanisms associated with mate change are poorly known. We measured baseline and stress-induced corticosterone levels in relation to mate change in Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla). Baseline corticosterone levels were higher in kittiwakes breeding with a new mate than in kittiwakes that did not change mate. Stress-induced corticosterone levels were not influenced by change of mate. Elevated baseline corticosterone levels in birds breeding with a new mate could result from the social stress associated with pair break-up or mirror a higher energetic demand resulting from a lack of coordination between new pair members. Our results emphasize the usefulness of corticosterone levels in elucidating the effects of mate change on the energetic demands of reproduction in free-living birds. /// Los cambios de pareja generalmente inducen una disminucin del xito reproductivo en las aves. Aunque los costos y beneficios de la ruptura de pareja han sido bien estudiados, los mecanismos endocrinos asociados con el cambio de pareja permanecen poco conocidos. En este estudio se midieron las concentraciones de base e inducidas por estrs de la corticosterona en relacin con el cambio de pareja en Rissa tridactyla. La concentracin basai de corticosterona de los individuos que formaron una nueva pareja fue superior a la de aquellos que mantuvieron la misma pareja del ao precedente. La concentracin de corticosterona luego de una induccin de estrs no estuvo influenciada por el cambio de pareja. Una elevada concentracin de corticosterona en los individuos con nueva pareja podra reflejar el estrs social asociado con la ruptura de la pareja o indicar una fuerte demanda energtica inducida por la falta de coordinacin entre los miembros de la nueva pareja. Nuestros resultados destacan la importancia de los niveles de concentracin de corticosterona para dilucidar las consecuencias del cambio de pareja en las demandas energticas de la reproduccin en las aves que viven en libertad. 
4151055| We studied patterns of relatedness and nesting dispersion in female Pacific Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons frontalis) in Alaska. Female Greater Whitefronted Geese are thought to be strongly philopatric and are often observed nesting in close association with other females. Analysis of the distribution of nests on the Yukon-Kusko-kwim Delta in 1998 indicated that nests were significantly clumped. We tested the hypothesis that females in the same nest cluster would be closely related using estimates of genetic relatedness based on six microsatellite DNA loci. There was no difference in the mean relatedness of females in the same cluster compared to females found in different clusters. However, relatedness among females was negatively correlated with distance between their nests, and geese nesting within 50 m of one another tended to be more closely related than those nesting farther apart. Randomization tests revealed that pairs of related individuals (R > 0.45) were more likely to occur in the same cluster when analyzed at the scale of the entire study site. However, the pattern did not hold when restricted to pairs found within 500 m of each other. Our results indicate that nest clusters are not composed primarily of closely related females, but Greater White-fronted Geese appear to be sufficiently philopatric to promote nonrandom patterns of relatedness at a local scale. /// Estudiamos los patrones de parentesco y la dispersin de nidos en hembras de Anser albifrons frontalis en Alaska. Se piensa que las hembras de A. a. frontalis son fuertemente filoptricas y frecuentemente se las observa nidificando asociadas de modo cercano con otras hembras. El anlisis de la distributin de los nidos en el Delta de Yukon-Kuskokwim en 1998 indic que los nidos estuvieron significativamente agrupados. Evaluamos la hiptesis de que las hembras en el mismo grupo de nidos estaran cercanamente emparentadas usando estimaciones de parentesco gentico basadas en seis loci de ADN microsatelital. No hubo diferencias en el promedio de parentesco de hembras en el mismo grupo comparado con hembras que se encontraron en grupos diferentes. Sin embargo, el parentesco entre las hembras se correlacion negativamente con la distancia entre los nidos, y los gansos que se encontraban nidificando a menos de 50 m unos de otros tendieron a estar ms cercanamente emparentadas que aquellos nidificando ms lejos. Anlisis de aleatorizacin revelaron que parejas de individuos emparentados (R > 0.45) presentaron mayor probabilidad de encontrarse en el mismo grupo cuando los anlisis se hicieron a la escala de todo el sitio de estudio. Sin embargo, el patrn no se mantuvo cuando los anlisis se restringieron a pares ubicados dentro de 500 m uno de otro. Nuestros resultados indican que los grupos de nidos no estn primariamente compuestos por hembras cercanamente emparentadas, pero que A. a. frontalis parece ser suficientemente filoptrica como para promover patrones no aleatorios de parentesco a escala local. 
4151085| We describe the timing and location of the prebasic molt in the Ash-throated Flycatcher (Myiarchus cinerascens), a hawking insectivore with resident populations in Mexico and migrant populations that breed in the western United States.The timing of fall molt with respect to migration is of particular interest for Ash-throated Flycatchers from the United States because they breed in arid lowland habitats that are probably unproductive in late summer, and because time constraints on molt might force northern populations to leave their breeding grounds before molting. Adults and juveniles depart their breeding grounds to arrive and molt in the region of the Mexican monsoon shortly after the monsoon rains begin. Diminishing food on the breeding grounds and increasing food in the monsoon region seem more important than time constraints for explaining molt-related movements by northern populations, because more southerly breeding birds east and west of the monsoon region also move to the monsoon region to molt. We found age class differences in the timing and duration of molt. In adults the primary molt starts approximately 14 July and requires 76 days to complete, whereas in juveniles, primary molt starts approximately 1 August (18 days after adults) but requires only 50 days to complete. We found no evidence that juveniles molt more primaries simultaneously than adults, so we conclude that the daily growth rate of individual feathers must be higher in juveniles than adults. /// Describimos el momento y el lugar en que sucede la muda prebsica en Myiarchus cinerascens, un ave insectvora que tiene poblaciones residentes en Mxico y poblaciones migratorias que cran en el oeste de los Estados Unidos. El momento en que sucede la muda del otoo con respecto a la migracin reviste un inters particular para las poblaciones de los Estados Unidos porque stas se reproducen en ambientes ridos de tierras bajas que probablemente son improductivos hacia el final del verano, y porque las limitaciones de tiempo sobre la muda podrian forzar a los individuos de las poblaciones del norte a abandonar sus sitios de cra antes de mudar. Los adultos y juveniles abandonan las reas reproductivas para llegar a la regin monznica mexicana, donde mudan poco despus del inicio de las lluvias monznicas. La disminucin en la disponibilidad de alimento en las zonas de cria y su aumento en la regin monznica parecen ser ms importantes que las limitaciones de tiempo para explicar los movimentos de las poblaciones norteas relacionados con la muda, pues las aves que se reproducen ms al sur en reas ubicadas al este y al oeste de la regin monznica tambin se desplazan hacia esta regin para mudar. Encontramos diferencias entre clases de edad en cuanto al momento en que tiene lugar la muda y en cuanto a su duracin. En los adultos, la muda de las primarias se incia aproximadamente el 14 de julio y requiere 76 das para completarse, mientras que en los juveniles se inicia aproximadamente el 18 de agosto (18 das despus que en los adultos), pero requiere slo 50 das para completarse. No encontramos evidencia de que los juveniles muden ms primarias de forma simultnea que los adultos, por lo que concluimos que la tasa de crecimiento diario de las plumas debe ser mayor en los juveniles. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120005|Seasonal variation in food supply may not adequately explain avian breeding phenology in tropical areas with relatively stable climates. In northeastern Thailand the Red-headed Trogon (
10.2307/1369517|Researchers studying hole-nesting birds breeding in nestboxes typically remove old nests from boxes. In natural cavities, old nest material accumulates with successive use. Here, we report on a two-year experiment concerned with the effects of the accumulation of used nest material in nestboxes on the reproductive success of Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor). Tree Swallows nested in clean boxes, boxes with old, unmanipulated material, and in boxes with old nests that had been microwaved to kill parasites inside. Bird fleas (Ceratophyllus idius) were more numerous in boxes with old nest material compared to clean boxes in both years. Reproductive output and nestling size were significantly reduced in the second year of the study, possibly because of higher numbers of bird fleas in two box-types that year. However, all instances of entire brood loss that year occurred during two periods of extreme weather, so we cannot distinguish between the possible effects of parasites and climate. In one year, the swallows nested later in boxes with old material. Otherwise, nesting phenology, reproductive output, and nestling size were not different between pairs using boxes with and without old material in either year. In both years, there was a significant, positive correlation between clutch size and cavity size. Contrary to some recent studies, there were no significant associations between the numbers of fowl mites (Ornithonyssus sylviarum), bird fleas, or blowflies (Protocalliphora sialia) per nestling, and any measures of reproductive output or nestling size in either year. We discuss our results in light of a recent critique of studies of birds breeding in nestboxes.
10.2307/1368679| Fifty-nine American Black Ducks (Anas rubripes) were collected during early, mid-, and late winter 1985-1986 at Chincoteague, Virginia to assess overwinter changes in physiological condition. Lipid Index (LI = grams lipid/gram nonlipid dry carcass  100) values of adult males were relatively high throughout winter, whereas LI values of both female age classes were low in early winter, peaked by midwinter, and remained high into late winter. Juvenile females had consistently lower LI values than adult females, indicating that juvenile females may be physiologically disadvantaged during winter. Protein mass did not vary over winter, but tended to be less in juvenile females than adult females. In contrast, Reinecke et al. (1982) found that lipid and protein masses of female American Black Ducks (both age classes) wintering in Maine decreased between fall and winter. This disparity may be explained by latitudinal differences in winter severity and diet. We argue that improved physiological condition, as a result of wintering farther south, may influence overwinter survivorship more strongly than reproductive potential during the subsequent spring. 
10.2307/1366894|Cloacal sperm were studied microscopically in cloacal lavages from 448 birds representing 70 migratory species, from Galveston, Texas, and Foley, Missouri. Representatives of 20 of these species sampled in the spring had cloacal sperm; at least 38 of the 39 individuals with sperm were males. A conservative interpretation of cloacal sperm in male migrants is that they represent spontaneous discharge from the ductus deferens or its glomus seminale, specifically in individuals that are ready for breeding. Although most of the migrants with cloacal sperm were not far from the known nesting range of the species, others were 30 to 900 km south of the southern limits of the known breeding range (Nashville Warbler [Vermivora ruficapilla], Rose-breasted Grosbeak [Pheucticus ludovicianus] and Painted Bunting [Passerina ciris]). There appear to be functionally significant differences among species of passerine birds in the timing of sperm emission and the physiological readiness for breeding; these processes apparently start in some species during spring migration.
10.2307/1368109|The ecology of nonbreeding Caribbean Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) in Yucatan, Mexico, was studied from October 1986 through February 1987. Nonbreeding birds were present on their primary wintering area (the Celestun Estuary) in October and increased to peak numbers of 19,895 in January. Total flamingo-use days in the estuary from October through February was 1,334,104. Flamingos were observed for 325 hr during this period, with feeding, resting, and preening combined comprising the major activities of adults (69-88%) and immatures (83-89%). Time spent in courtship activity by adults increased from October (0.2%) to peak in February (21%); courtship activity of immatures was <1% during all months. Time spent in any other activity usually was <10% for both age classes. Habitat conditions in the estuary did not appear threatened, however, the potential for disturbance exists as increasing numbers of tourists are guided upriver to view flamingos.
40072393|To assess potential changes in tundra-nesting bird populations relative to increased herbivory by growing Lesser Snow Goose (
10.2307/1368693| We studied the summer habitat ecology of 12 Northern Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) in two areas of northwestern California. Spotted Owls used mature or old-growth conifer forests significantly more than expected relative to their availability within their home ranges. In contrast, Spotted Owls used forests of intermediate and young age significantly less than expected relative to their availability within their home ranges. Eighty four percent of 616 Spotted Owl radiotelemetry locations were recorded in mature or old-growth forests. Spotted Owls used forests of complex structure and old age. There were significant differences in habitat structure (e.g., canopy closure, shrub cover, herb cover, old-growth conifer basal area, and hardwood tree density) among habitats used for frequent foraging, infrequent foraging, and roosting. In addition, male and female owls appeared to select habitats with different structure for foraging. Male owls which are smaller than female owls foraged in habitats which had higher tree density than female owls. The mean summer home-range size was 413 ha (SD =  196 ha) with males having smaller mean home-range size than females (338 ha and 538 ha, respectively). 
40072335|Environmental conditions during the neonatal period can affect the growth, physiology, behavior, and immune function of birds. In many avian studies the nestling environment includes investigator handling of young, which may be stressful. While neonatal handling is known to affect the adult phenotype in rats, the effects of handling on development have rarely been examined in wild birds. We examined the effect of short, repeated periods of neonatal handling on avian growth and immune system development. We subjected American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) to 15 min of daily investigator handling throughout the nestling period, while controls remained undisturbed. Immediately prior to fledging we assessed cutaneous immunity, humoral immunity, mass, and degree of fluctuating asymmetry. Daily handling did not significantly affect any of these measurements. We also addressed the possibility that treatment differences would appear only when birds were challenged with a more substantial stressor by bringing birds into captivity for 24 hr. Captivity did not affect mass, but significantly lowered the cutaneous immune response, although this was independent of treatment. Therefore, brief periods of investigator handling did not appear to affect immune or morphological development in these species, whereas 24 hr of captivity resulted in suppressed cutaneous immune responses. /// Las condiciones ambientales durante el perodo neonatal pueden afectar el crecimiento, la fisiologa, el comportamiento y la funcion inmunolgica de las aves. En muchos estudios de aves, el ambiente del pichn incluye su manipulacin por parte del investigador, la cual puede causar estrs. Aunque se conoce que la manipulacin neonatal afecta el fenotipo de los adultos en las ratas, el efecto de la manipulacin en el desarrollo ha sido examinado en muy pocas ocasiones en aves silvestres. Examinamos el efecto de perodos repetidos cortos de manipulacin neonatal en el crecimiento y en el desarrollo del sistema inmunolgico en las aves. Sometimos a individuos de las especies Falco sparverius y Sturnus vulgaris a 15 min diarios de manipulacin por parte de investigadores a lo largo de la etapa de pichn, mientras que los controles permanecieron sin disturbios. Inmediatamente antes al emplumamiento, evaluamos la inmunidad cutnea, la inmunidad humoral, el peso y el grado de asimetra fluctuante. La manipulacin diaria no afect significativamente ninguna de estas medidas. Tambin analizamos la posibilidad de que las diferencias de tratamiento aparecieran slo cuando las aves fueran expuestas a un agente de estrs mas importante, poniendo a las aves en cautiverio por 24 hs. El cautiverio no afect el peso, pero disminuy significativamente la respuesta inmunologica cutnea, aunque esto fue independiente del tratamiento. De este modo, los perodos breves de manipulacin del investigador no parecen afectar el desarrollo inmunolgico y morfolgico en estas especies, mientras que un perodo de 24 hs de cautiverio produjo una supresion de las respuestas inmunolgicas cutneas.
10.2307/1369570|I analyzed the variation in body size among Merlins using nine morphological characters. Repeatabilities did not differ between bone and feather characters. There was a large individual variation in tail length particularly in males. In females, foot span and length of the middle toe varied slightly more than tail length did. The difference in character values between males and females, i.e., reversed sexual dimorphism in size, varied from 5 to 10%, females being larger than males. The correlation analyses indicated that there were stronger correlations within than between bone and feather characters, respectively. Similarly, the multivariate analysis showed higher scores on PCI for feather than for bone characters except for tail length. The highest scores were obtained for body length and wing length. Each one of these characters seems to provide a fairly good estimate of overall body size.
10.2307/1369317|Bristle-thighed Curlews (Numenius tahitiensis) fly at least 4,000 km non-stop from staging grounds in western Alaska to the northern edge of the winter range at Laysan Island in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands. Adults migrate from Laysan in early May and return in July and August. Juveniles, which arrive in late August and early September, largely migrate unaccompanied by adults. Compared with other shorebirds, Bristle-thighed Curlews migrate in small flocks and show no diurnal pattern in timing of departures. Subadults do not fatten adequately for migration but often accompany departing adults briefly and then return to the island. Fat content in adults at the start of spring migration is high, averaging 42%. Our findings indicate that curlews wintering in the Central and South Pacific overfly Hawaii during spring and autumn, undertaking non-stop flights of >6,000 km. In the absence of tailwinds, only two of the four flight range models that we tested (Summers and Waltner 1979, Davidson 1984) provide reasonable estimates of the migratory performance of Bristle-thighed Curlews (i.e., non-stop flights from Alaska to Laysan and beyond). Within the range of altitudes at which they migrate, curlews probably seek out tailwinds that facilitate long-distance, non-stop flights.
10.1525/cond.2013.120169|Although much of the Arctic Coastal Plain has remained undeveloped, oil and gas industries, new and expanding villages, as well as tourism are likely to increase in the near future. One potential effect of increased human development is increased anthropogenic waste and the need to dispose of this waste in landfills. We investigated potential indirect effects of the North Slope Borough landfill on breeding shorebirds by examining changes in environmental conditions (predator densities and timing of snow melt) and measures of shorebird reproduction (nest-initiation dates, nest density, nest survival, and return rates) in relation to construction and deposition of waste in the landfill. This study included one year of pre-construction data (2004), three years when landfill roads and fences were being constructed (20052007), and five years when waste was being deposited (20082012). We monitored 364 shorebird nests within a 36-ha plot (approximately half of which was inside the landfill and half outside). Construction of a fence around the landfill reduced snow levels inside the landfill, leading to earlier snow melt and likely to shorebirds initiating nests earlier. Densities of avian predators increased following waste deposition, but nest densities, nest survival, and return rates were generally greater inside the landfill than outside in all years after landfill construction. Our results indicate that fences placed around landfills and procedures to reduce attraction of predators to landfills can minimize indirect negative effects of landfill construction and operation and even favor species breeding in the area.
4500989|Nest predation may influence habitat selection by birds at multiple spatial scales. We blended population and community ecology to investigate this possibility for 15 species of forest songbirds and their diurnal nest predators (corvids and sciurids) in 28 1 km
10.2307/1367976|The hypothesis that there are no morphologically separable populations of Townsend's Warblers (Dendroica townsendi) was tested by analysis of male and female specimens. Two populations of Townsend's Warblers were identified: (1) those wintering in Mexico/Central America; and (2) those wintering in California/Oregon. Principal component and discriminant function analyses identified wing length as the most useful variable for separating the wintering groups. Identification of breeding areas of wintering birds by wing length was complicated by feather wear. It appears, however, that the shorter-winged birds wintering in California/Oregon breed in the Queen Charlotte Islands, and the longer-winged birds wintering in Mexico/Central America breed throughout the remainder of the species' range. Although formal designations of subspecies of the Townsend's Warbler must await further clarification of breeding areas, I conclude that populations of this species can be distinguished with sufficient accuracy to satisfy reasonably rigorous subspecies criteria.
1370384| We tested the "peak-demand" and "reallocation" hypotheses of seasonal energy expenditure which predict, respectively, that energy expenditure is greatest during the breeding season or varies little seasonally. We tested these predictions by utilizing the doubly labeled water technique to estimate energy expenditure and water flux of Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) in both the breeding and nonbreeding seasons. Similar to Weathers et al. (1999), we did not find support for either of these hypotheses, finding instead that energy expenditure was greater during the nonbreeding season. The fact that our study site was at the northern edge of the species' range, where winters are severe, may have influenced this result. Comparisons with other parid studies were equivocal because body size was an important factor in explaining seasonal energetics, and only the larger species have been examined during the breeding season. /// En este trabajo evaluamos las hiptesis de "pico de demanda" y "reasignacin" sobre inversin estacional de energa que predicen, respectivamente, que la inversin de energa es mayor durante la temporada de apareamiento o vara poco estacionalmente. Probamos estas predicciones utilizando la tcnica de agua doblemente marcada para estimar la inversin de energa y flujo de agua en carbonero de Carolina (Poecile carolinensis) durante las temporadas de apareamiento y no-apareamiento. Al igual que Weathers et al. (1999), no encontramos evidencia a favor de ninguna de las hiptesis mencionadas; en cambio, la energa invertida fue mayor durante la temporada de no-apareamiento. El hecho de que nuestro sitio de estudio estuviese en el borde norte del rango de esta especie, donde los inviernos son severos, pudo haber influido en este resultado. Comparaciones con otros estudios hechos en Paridae equvoca porque el tamao del cuerpo fue un factor importante para explicar la energtica estacional, y esos trabajos nicamente han examinado a especies grandes y durante la temporada de apareamiento. 
10.2307/1369282|Date of wing molt initiation, based on the regression of tenth primary length on capture date, was calculated for breeding and nonbreeding Tundra Swans (Cygnus columbianus columbianus) on the Colville River Delta, Alaska. Breeding females initiated wing molt significantly later than breeding males and nonbreeding males and females; the molt of breeding females was correlated with the date on which their eggs hatched. Breeding males did not differ significantly from nonbreeding males and females in the date of molt initiation. Timing of molt in breeding males and females was consistent with the views that females delay molt while replenishing energy spent on reproduction, but was also consistent with the breeding pair's need for primaries to defend territories and to defend and brood young. Other results, including an increase in an index of female body condition throughout most of the molt period, and a positive correlation between clutch size and female hatch-to-molt interval, were not predicted by the hypothesis that past energy expenditures constrain the timing of molt. Patterns of wing molt within and among other Northern Hemisphere geese and swans are also difficult to explain on the basis of energetics alone. For example, breeding females initiate molt before breeding males in many species. Also, there is extreme asynchrony between mates in two swan species; one of those species also exhibits variation in which sex initiates wing molt first. Both patterns suggest that asynchrony, per se, is important, probably to facilitate brood protection or territory defense. In Tundra Swans and other northern breeding geese and swans, the non-energetic demands of territory defense, brood defense, and brooding are probably important constraints on the timing of wing molt.
1370717| We describe a new species of shorebird, tentatively referred to the family Charadriidae, from the Huadian Formation (Middle Eocene) in Jilin Province, China. In general morphology the specimen closely matches that of an extant charadriid, and corresponds in size to the Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus). If correctly identified this is the oldest record of the Charadriidae. The Middle Eocene paleoenvironment of the Huadian region is thought to have resembled a subtropical swamp. /// Describimos una nueva especie de ave playera, tentativamente clasificada como de la Familia Charadriidae, de la Formacin Huadian (Eoceno Medio) en la Provincia de Jilin, China. En trminos de morfologa general, el ejemplar coincide mayormente con la morfologa de un chardrido actual, y se asemeja en tamao a Charadrius vociferus. Si la identificacin es correcta, este representa el registro ms antiguo para la Familia Charadriidae. El paleoambiente del Eoceno Medio de la regin de Huadian se asemejaba probablemente a un pantano subtropical. 
10.2307/1369652| We measured corticosterone in plasma collected from free-living Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) and made blood smears to count the ratio of heterophils to lymphocytes (H/L). Our objective was to categorize how these two measures of stress vary with potential stressors in the birds' environment. In penguins that were repeatedly sampled from three to eight times, repeated handling did not affect corticosterone levels or H/L, but there were significant differences among individuals. Nesting stage did not affect corticosterone level, but H/L was significantly lower during the chick stage than in the courting or incubation stages. Sex and handling times of less than 5 min had no effect on either corticosterone or H/L. In birds that had fasted up to 40 days during the courtship and early incubation stages, there was no increase in corticosterone or H/L with length of fasting, but in birds that had fasted more than 50 days, corticosterone levels increased. Birds with obvious injuries had significantly higher H/L than birds that had recently engaged in fights or those caring for chicks, but corticosterone levels did not differ in these groups. In free-living birds, H/L ratios provide a measure of stress that may be more useful than a single measure of plasma corticosterone in assessing response to chronic stressors like injury or crowded conditions in the breeding colony. 
10.2307/1370089|In their recent article, Wilson and Cooper (1998) reported that Acadian Flycatchers (Empidonax virescens) selected nest trees nonrandomly, but that their choice of nest tree did not influence nest success. They concluded that nest predation appears random in time and space. However, we show their metric for nest tree use (% use -% available) is a poor indicator of nest tree selection. We reanalyzed their data using an appropriate selectivity index (from Chesson 1983), and found that nest tree selectivity was greater for nest tree species with higher daily nest survival rates. In general, nest predation, while it may appear unpredictable, may often be related to nest site characteristics.
10.2307/1368987|We investigated the relationship between brood size and social dominance during the brood-rearing period in Lesser Snow Geese (Anser caerulescens caerulescens) by experimentally manipulating food availability to create high-biomass food patches. A total of 128 social interactions were subsequently observed in experimental areas; the rate of interactions was significantly higher in experimental high-biomass plots (9.6 hr
4122518| The presence of extra-pair fertilizations (EPF) in a dense breeding population of Sandhill Cranes (Grus canadensis) was examined using six microsatellite DNA markers. In this long-lived species that maintains long-term pair bonds, 4.4%-11% of 45 chicks were not genetically related to one social parent, and extra-pair chicks were present in 5.6%-22% of 18 family groups. Two confirmed extra-pair chicks were from different broods of the same pair that was socially bonded for a minimum of 12 years. The social male was rejected as the genetic father of both of these chicks. Three other potential cases of EPF (two cases in which the social male was rejected as the genetic parent, one in which the social female was rejected) could also have resulted from mate replacement prior to sampling. The range of EPF in this population of Sandhill Cranes is similar to that of other species with similar mating systems. In the confirmed cases of EPF, the female was able to increase her individual reproductive success without losing her territory. /// La presencia de fertilizatin extra-pareja (FEP) en una poblacin reproductiva numerosa de Grus canadensis fue analizada usando seis marcadores microsatelitales de ADN. En esta especie longeva que mantiene vnculos de pareja a largo plazo, entre el 4.4% y el 11% de 45 polluelos no se relacionaron genticamente a uno de sus padres sociales, y los polluelos extra-pareja estuvieron presentes en el 5.6% al 22% de 18 grupos familiares. Dos pollos extra-pareja de diferentes camadas pertenecieron a una pareja que ha estado socialmente vinculada por un periodo mnimo de 12 aos. El macho social fue rechazado como el padre gentico en ambos casos. Los otros tres casos posibles de FEP (dos casos en los que el macho social fue rechazado como el padre gentico, uno en el que la hembra social fue rechazada) podran deberse al reemplazo de la pareja antes del muestreo. El rango de FEP para esta poblacin de G. canadensis se aproxima al de otras especies con sistemas de apareamiento similar. En los casos confirmados de FEP, la hembra fue capaz de incrementar su xito reproductivo sin perder su territorio. 
10.2307/1368762|The ecology and breeding biology of the Common Amakihi (Hemignathus virens) was studied on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, from 1970 through 1981. Common Amakihi retained mates for more than one season and returned each year to the same area to breed. There was an excess of unmated males in the population. First-year birds were rarely successful in their initial breeding attempt. The species had a protracted breeding season, with nests found in every month of the year except August through October. However, the most intensive breeding occurred from March to May, that period of greatest mamane (Sophora chrysophylla) flowering. Ritualized courtship in the Common Amakihi included high altitude and low altitude chases. Territories encompassed the nest site and all food resources, and was a fixed location that often had the same boundaries in succeeding years. The size and location of territories were related to available food resources. Nests were statant, open cupped, with mamane trees the preferred nesting substrate. Clutch size averaged 2.5 eggs and varied between years such that, in a year of low food availability, birds with smaller clutch sizes fledged more young than did those with larger clutches. Incubation period was 14 days and clutches hatched asynchronously. Difference in nestling sizes resulted in brood reduction through elimination of the smallest individual in years of decreased food supply. The nestling period averaged 17 days and young usually fledged synchronously. Both parents fed the young but only the female incubated and brooded. Based on 150 nests with complete records, hatching success was 53.5%, fledging success was 64.9%, and overall reproductive success was 34.7%. The major mortality factor during the breeding cycle was nest desertion by the adults. There were six major factors which influenced productivity on Mauna Kea. The two most important were length of the breeding season and clutch size. Other factors were territoriality, hatching sequence, nestling growth rates, and nestling mortality.
10.2307/1368794|In this study, I quantified the removal of eggs by the Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) from parasitized Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) nests. Laying cowbirds removed one warbler egg from about one in three parasitized nests. Assuming the same individual was involved in both acts, cowbirds removed host eggs on a day before or the same day they laid their own eggs (33.3%, n = 8 nests), on the same day (20.8%, n = 5) but after they laid, or on the same or subsequent days (46%, n = 11). As almost half (41%) of the parasitized nests received cowbird eggs before host eggs appeared, many cowbirds that removed eggs had to return to the nest to do so, although burial precluded that at some nests. Return trips increased the chances that a cowbird might mistakenly remove its own egg, especially if it was the only egg in the nest, and that interactions might occur between host and parasite. Explanations for the removal of eggs at the time of parasitism are summarized and two hypotheses are tested. The likelihood of warblers accepting a cowbird egg experimentally introduced into their nests was not influenced by the removal of a host egg at the time of parasitism, as predicted by the "host deception" hypothesis. Yellow Warblers tolerated five- and four-egg clutches being reduced to three eggs (36/37 nests), but abandoned nearly one-third of clutches reduced to two eggs (13/42) and most clutches reduced to one egg (20/22). Only one control nest was deserted (n = 41 and 59 clutches of five and four eggs, respectively). Only four of 13 (31%) clutches reduced to one egg of each of the warbler and cowbird were abandoned, but 11 of 14 (79%) clutches reduced to only one cowbird egg were deserted. None of the 10 clutches reduced to two cowbird eggs was deserted. These results suggest that cowbirds can remove at least two eggs without risking desertion by the warblers. It is not clear why only one egg is removed, when removal occurs in the first place. Cowbirds that manage to ingest eggs they remove undoubtedly gain nourishment.
10.2307/1368116|Selection of nests by Yellow-eyed Penguins (Megadyptes antipodes) is influenced primarily by vegetation. Penguins selected nests with a dense vegetative cover, particularly at 50-100 cm above the ground; nests had a high degree of lateral concealment regardless of the vegetation type. The Yellow-eyed Penguin is a large-bodied penguin breeding in a temperate climate. Overhead vegetative cover provides protection from the sun for both brooding adults and chicks. Lateral concealment due to a solid nest back and surrounding vegetation results in nests that are visually isolated from their neighbors. Internest distances decrease with increasing density of vegetation, reflecting the availability of sites with suitable overhead vegetative cover.
10.2307/1367830|The breeding biology of Fantail Warblers (Cisticola juncidis) in a rice field in northwestern peninsular Malaysia was studied. Data were collected on 38 nests found in rice plants on the 15-ha study area. Clutch size was three or four, incubation lasted 10-14 days, and fledging occurred 14-15 days after hatching. Two breeding seasons occurred annually, January-March and June-September, coinciding with the availability of suitable rice field nesting cover. The presence of several closely spaced, simultaneously active nests on plots occupied by single male birds indicated a polygynous mating system. This was based on the ability of some males to monopolize the limited available nesting habitat early in the rice-growing cycle. These findings differ from those of previous studies, presumably because of differences in the habitat types and mating systems examined.
10.2307/1369571|We studied nest site fidelity of female Wild Turkeys in the Arkansas Ozarks during 1992-94. Sixty-nine percent of surviving females returned to breed on their previous breeding areas. Older females had higher return rate compared to younger females. Females did not appear to base their return decision on the previous year nest success. Females that returned to their previous nesting areas laid larger clutches than females that did not return and nests of returned females survived longer than those of females that moved to new areas. Nest site fidelity did not associate with future reproductive success; nest success of females that returned and those that switched breeding areas was similar. Spring dispersal distance and size of prenesting ranges were similar between females that returned and females that moved to new areas between years. Females that nested in habitats that appeared to provide reduced protection from predation relocated in the following year independently of whether their previous nests actually were depredated. Increased social status and experience may account for correlation between habitat quality and breeding site fidelity.
10.2307/1369249| Annual variation in return rate of breeding birds, mate and nest-site fidelity was studied in the resident Gentoo (Pygoscelis papua) and migratory Macaroni (Eudyptes chrysolophus) Penguin from 1986 to 1990 at Bird Island, South Georgia (54S, 38W). Return rates (proportion of birds breeding in year x which returned to breed in year x + 1) varied significantly between years: 20-79% and 35-73% in Gentoo and Macaroni Penguins, respectively. Lowest values in both species (in 1987) followed a severe, prolonged winter and were associated with delayed onset of breeding and decreased breeding population size. Decreased return rate was caused by (a) extensive non-breeding in adult birds: 25% of Gentoo and 14% of Macaroni Penguins which bred in 1986 were alive but failed to breed in 1987, and (b) increased adult mortality. Mate fidelity also varied between years in Gentoo Penguins (0-89%) with no birds retaining the same mate in 1987. In contrast, in Macaroni Penguins mate fidelity was high (71-79%) in all three years. This difference may be due to the shorter pre-breeding period, greater synchrony of arrival and pattern of continuous nest attendance in Macaroni Penguins. Failed breeders were more likely to change mate in Macaroni, but not Gentoo, Penguins but there was no difference in subsequent breeding success or mean laying date between new and established pairs in either species. Both species showed a high degree of nest-site fidelity in all years (Gentoo, 89-100%; Macaroni 69-87%). Females were more likely than males to change nest-site following mate change. Intra-season pair fidelity was high in Macaroni Penguins (74-78%) between breeding and the post-nuptial molt. However, the post-nuptial molt was also an important period for formation of new pair-bonds in this species. Despite marked differences in breeding chronology and life-history patterns in these two species, return rates, mate and site fidelity were only markedly dissimilar in one of the three years studied. 
10.2307/1370176|We coordinated censuses from April 1988 to April 1995 to obtain an overview of shorebird abundance and distribution in Pacific Coast wetlands of the contiguous United States. We attempted to acquire at least 3 years of data for all major wetlands from counts within a short time window each fall, winter, and spring. Fourteen abundant, 8 moderately abundant, and 21 rare-to-uncommon species were recorded. For temperate-zone breeders, peak periods of abundance were fall or winter and, when discernible for arctic breeders, mostly fall or spring. Arctic breeders were relatively more abundant than temperate-zone breeders in Oregon and Washington wetlands. All five of the most abundant temperate breeders were limited primarily to California wetlands in all seasons. Only for Western Sandpiper (Calidris mauri) and Dunlin (C. alpina) did the estimated total individuals present simultaneously in all wetlands exceed 100,000. Fifty-six of 66 sites surveyed had at least four counts and at least 100 shorebirds on one or more counts; 38 of the 56 sites held at least 1% of 1 of 13 key species during at least one season. San Francisco Bay accounted for 24-96% of the estimated totals for key species; Grays Harbor, Willapa Bay, Humboldt Bay, Tomales Bay, Point Reyes Esteros, Bolinas Lagoon, Elkhorn Slough, Morro Bay, Mugu Lagoon, Bolsa Chica, Mission Bay, and San Diego Bay held at least 1% of at least half the key species in at least one season. The usefulness of five criteria for selecting key wetlands for shorebird conservation are examined and potential threats are discussed.
1370616| We examined the value of paternal care in the socially monogamous Chestnut-collared Longspur (Calcarius ornatus). We removed parental males from their territories after eggs hatched, and compared fledging success of these nests with that of nests at which both parents attended young. We demonstrate that males were essential for nestling survival: no young fledged from female-only nests. Thus, constraints of the breeding environment apparently impose a need for biparental care in this species. We relate this study to previous research, and suggest that ecological variables constraining males to care for young may also dictate patterns of male behavior in response to the steroid hormone testosterone. /// Examinamos el valor del cuidado paterno en Calcarius ornatus, una especie socialmente mongama. Removimos machos parentales de sus territorios despus de la eclosin de los huevos, y comparamos el xito de emplumamiento de esos nidos con nidos en los que los dos padres cuidaron de los pichones. Demostramos que los machos fueron esenciales para la supervivencia de los pichones pues ningn pichn emplum en nidos atendidos slo por hembras. Por lo tanto, las limitantes del ambiente reproductivo aparentemente imponen la necesidad del cuidado biparental en esta especie. Relacionamos este estudio con investigaciones previas y sugerimos que las variables ecolgicas que limitan a los machos a cuidar de los pichones podran tambin dictar los patrones de comportamiento de los machos como respuesta a la hormona esteroide testosterona. 
10.2307/1370324|Evidence suggests that birds breeding early in the season or laying larger eggs are at a selective advantage because quality and survival of their offspring are higher. We tested whether wild Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) hatching early in the season or from larger eggs had enhanced growth as ducklings and larger size or higher probability of recruiting to the local breeding population in years after hatching. After correcting for age at capture, body mass, head length, and culmen of ducklings were inversely related to hatching date, but were unrelated to egg volume. As adults, late-hatched birds had shorter wing lengths (second-year birds only) and tended to have smaller head lengths (all after-hatch year birds) than early hatching birds. We suggest that later-hatching birds are smaller due to increased competition for food during brood rearing. Recruitment probability increased as natal egg volume increased and decreased among birds with later natal hatching dates. We speculate these results are due to higher mortality of ducklings hatched from small eggs, and because early-hatched birds have more time to acquire nutrient reserves that would reduce vulnerability to costs of migration.
10.1525/cond.2010.090067|
               
10.2307/1368877| Bird flocks associated with dolphins in the eastern tropical Pacific are described from observations obtained during eight cruises that took place from January to March of 1976, 1977, 1979, and 1980. In the northern tropical waters between latitudes 5N and 30N, 43% to 53% of bird flocks co-occurred with dolphins. In equatorial and southern subtropical waters between latitudes 5N to 12S and in the central Pacific less than 8% of the flocks were associated with dolphins. In northern tropical waters about 70% of dolphin schools associated with flocks were composed of spotted or spotted plus spinner dolphins; conversely, 59% of spotted dolphin and 96% of spotted plus spinner dolphin schools co-occurred with bird flocks. Most large schools of these dolphins were associated with birds, and the number and diversity of bird species increased with dolphin school size. The average species composition of birds in dolphin-associated flocks of northern tropical waters was: boobies 41.7%, Wedge-tailed Shearwaters (Puffinus pacificus) 31.4%, jaegers 12.8%, Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) 6%, frigatebirds 3.6%, and others 4.5%. Positive statistical associations were found among these bird species, which are explained by common attraction to food made available by feeding yellowfin tuna. In the southern latitudes and in the central Pacific, flocks were dominated by Sooty Terns, and few flocks were associated with dolphins. These flocks appeared to be associated with skipjack rather than yellowfin tuna. 
40072336|I describe a skeleton of a cormorant-like bird from Enspel, a late Oligocene (24.7 mya) fossil site in Germany, which is assigned to a new species, ?Borvocarbo stoeffelensis, sp. nov. The specimen constitutes the earliest described and most completely preserved fossil record of the Phalacrocoracoidea, the clade including Anhingidae (anhingas) and Phalacrocoracidae (cormorants). ?B. stoeffelensis shares derived features with cormorants that are absent in anhingas. Despite its cormorant-like overall morphology, an assignment to the stem lineage of Phalacrocoracidae is not straightforward, because the new species is also distinguished from crown group representatives of the clade (Anhingidae + Phalacrocoracidae) by presumably plesiomorphic features. The morphology displayed by ?B. stoeffelensis places a caveat on the assignment to the Phalacrocoracidae of other less completely known Paleogene and early Neogene taxa. Plesiomorphic features shared by ?B. stoeffelensis and extant "microcormorants" (sensu Siegel-Causey 1988) support a sister group relationship between "Microcarbo" spp. and all other extant Phalacrocoracidae. /// Describo el esqueleto de un ave similar a un cormorn de la localidad de Enspel, un sitio de fsiles del Oligoceno tardo (24.7 millones de aos) en Alemania. Este fsil es asignado a una nueva especie, ?Borvocarbo stoeffelensis, sp. nov. El espcimen constituye la descriptin ms temprana y el registro fsil mejor preservado de los Phalacrocoracoidea, el clado que incluye Anhingidae (anhingas) y Phalacrocoracidae (cormoranes). ?B. stoeffelensis comparte caractersticas derivadas con los cormoranes que estn ausentes en las anhingas. A pesar de su morfologa general similar a un cormorn, la asignacin a la rama del linaje de los Phalacrocoracidae no es directa, debido a que la nueva especie tambin se distingue de los representantes del clado defmido por el ancestro comn ms reciente de los taxones vivientes de Anhingidae y Phalacrocoracidae por caractersticas presumiblemente plesiomrficas. La morfologa que presenta ?B. stoeffelensis origina dudas sobre la asignacin de otros taxones del Palegeno y del Negeno temprano menos conocidos a los Phalacrocoracidae. Las caractersticas plesiomrficas compartidas por ?B. stoeffelensis y por los "microcormoranes" actuales (sensu Siegel-Causey 1988) apoyan una relacin de tipo grupo hermano entre " Microcarbo" spp. y todos los otros Phalacrocoracidae actuales.
10.1525/cond.2013.120081|Shorebirds are exceptionally diverse in their social mating systems, and genetic analyses of a few species have revealed further variation in genetic mating systems. The ecological and evolutionary causes of this variation are largely unknown. We studied the mating system of American Golden-Plovers (
10.2307/1369965|We compared masses of definitive basic and alternate plumages of male Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors) to evaluate the hypothesis that nutritional investments in basic and alternate plumages are related to the duration that plumages are worn and to assess the relative costs of prebasic and prealternate molts. Because these plumages are worn by males for approximately equal durations, we predicted that masses of the basic and alternate body plumages would be similar. To assess nutritional stress (demands greater than available resources) associated with molt, we examined the relation between remigial length and structural size and compared predicted and observed plumage masses of Blue-winged Teal and other ducks. If birds were nutritionally challenged during remigial molt, then we predicted remigial length would be influenced by nutrition rather than size, and remigial length and size would be unrelated. Alternate body plumage of male Blue-winged Teal weighed about 10% more than the basic body plumage; however, masses of both plumages were less than that predicted on the basis of lean body mass. We argue that deviations between observed and predicted plumage masses were related to factors other than nutrition. Further, remigial lengths were significantly, albeit weakly, related to structural size. We therefore concluded that, although the potential for molt-induced stress may be greatest in small-bodied waterfowl species, there was no clear evidence that molting male Blue-winged Teal were nutritionally stressed.
10.2307/1367335|Swainson's Hawks (Buteo swainsoni) were studied at 270 occupied nest sites in south-central North Dakota on a 1,259-km<sup>2</sup> intensive study block and on a surrounding study area (16,519 km<sup>2</sup>) during three breeding seasons. On the intensive study block the number of occupied nests ranged from 46 in 1977 to 100 in 1979. Average nest densities were highest on ground moraine (0.119 nest/km<sup>2</sup>) and on eolian sand deposit (0.102 nest/km<sup>2</sup>) landforms. Pasture and haylands made up 75% of the land-use within 1.0 km of a sample of 27 nests. Some pairs nested successfully in sites characterized by intensive agriculture and human activity; about 75% of all nests were in sites attributable to human activities. The most common nesting sites (43%) were in shelterbelts. Cottonwoods (Populus deltoides) were the most frequently used (44%) nest trees. At least 50% of the pairs constructed new nests each year. Mean nest success was 64% and mean number of young fledged per occupied nest was 1.5. Wind and hail caused over 30% of the nest failures each of the three years. Northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides) were the most frequent prey, accounting for 44% of all animal remains found at nests. Man-made changes in central North Dakota during the last century have provided many nesting sites in areas previously sparsely populated by Swainson's Hawks.
10.2307/1368844| We used data from Christmas Bird Counts (1961-1984) and road counts (1983-1985) to study the winter population ecology of Snowy Owls (Nyctea scandiaca) on the Great Plains of North America. Numbers of owls wintering between 45N and 53N increased with latitude. Owl abundance fluctuated from year to year, but fluctuations were not synchronous among count localities across the Great Plains. Owls first appeared on our study sites in southwestern Alberta in early November and individuals continued to arrive until late December or early January. Spring departure occurred during late February and early March, with a few owls remaining until late March. During midwinter, the mean number of owls censused on four study sites ranged from 1.3 to 5.8 owls/100 km in 1983-1984 and from 1.7 to 10.2 owls/100 km in 1984-1985. Although all age-sex classes were represented on the Alberta study areas in both winters, adult birds predominated. Both the Christmas Bird Count data and our fieldwork indicate that owl dispersion is patchy, and that the abundance of owls within patches may vary markedly from year to year. We recommend that future studies of winter raptor populations select multiple study sites to permit detection of patterns that occur over areas larger than a single study site. 
10.2307/1370005| In the Monte desert of South America, the overall supply of water and food for birds decreases in the dry, cold season (June through September). During this period the White-fronted Woodpecker (Melanerpes cactorum) drills holes in the trunks and branches of Prosopis flexuosa and feeds on the exuded sap. Other bird species, diverse in ecological attributes and taxonomic affinities, take advantage of this resource which otherwise would be rarely available. Sap is a major constituent of the diet of the White-fronted Woodpecker and 11 other bird species, and sap feeding comprises between 16% to 83% of foraging observations made during June and July. Aggression by White-fronted Woodpeckers significantly reduced the time smaller bird species spent feeding on sap, indicating that White-fronted Woodpeckers actively compete for this resource. Other bird species profit from having access to a resource rich in water and sugar. /// En el desierto del Monte de Sudamrica, la oferta de agua y alimento para las aves disminuye durante la estacin seca de invierno (junio a septiembre). Durante este perodo, el Carpintero de los Cardones (Melanerpes cactorum) taladra los troncos y ramas de Prosopis flexuosa y se alimenta de la savia que fluye de las perforaciones. Otras especies de aves, de diferentes grupos ecolgicos y taxonmicos, aprovechan este recurso, que de otro modo raramente est disponible. La savia es un componente importante de la dieta del Carpintero de los Cardones y de otras 11 especies de aves; durante los meses de junio y julio constituye del 16% al 83% de las observaciones de forrajeo. La agresin por los Carpinteros de los Cardones reduce significativamente el tiempo de alimentacin en las perforaciones con savia de las especies ms pequeas. En la explotacin de este recurso se revela una compleja combinacin de interacciones positivas y negativas entre las aves. Las interacciones agonsticas sugieren que el Carpintero de los Cardones compite activamente por este recurso, mientras que las otras especies de aves se favorecen al acceder a un recurso rico en agua y en azcares. 
10.2307/1369855|We examined the constraints on double brooding in Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) to explain why 56% of females with successful first nests did not attempt second broods. Double brooded females fledged on average 1.9 more young than single brooded females. Double brooded females nested significantly earlier than single brooded females, but many females with early nests did not double brood. There were no significant differences among single and double brooded females in age, experience, body condition, or reproductive output at their first nest. Female breeding strategy did not depend on male age or male feeding effort at the first nest. Double brooded individuals were usually feeding fledglings while undergoing their pre-basic molt, and the main cost of being double brooded was a three week delay in molt compared with single brooded birds. This delay in molt could impose a high energetic cost due to the overlap of molt and fledgling care, and a time cost in terms of delaying migration and the acquisition of a winter territory.
10.1525/cond.2010.090135|In response to brood parasitism by the Brown-headed Cowbird (
10.2307/1370182|When primary forest in central Amazonia is cut and abandoned, the plant succession is dominated by Cecropia spp., whereas when it is cut and burned for pastures, the regrowth vegetation is dominated by Vismia spp. The bird communities of these two regrowth forest types were sampled at six sites (9-13 years old) using mist-nets and observations. Bird species richness was similar between the two forest types. Cecropia regrowth, however, was richer for strictly forest bird species than was Vismia regrowth. Mixed-flock species and ant-following birds were significantly more abundant in the Cecropia second growth, whereas nonforest insectivores and omnivores were more common in Vismia regrowth. The type of regrowth was found to influence bird species composition in the study sites. These results suggest that the type of human disturbance has an important role in determining the bird communities that occupy early successional areas in central Amazonia.
10.2307/1368429|The breeding biology of a small population of individually marked Black-billed Magpies (Pica pica) was studied from 1978 through 1981 in Wind Cave National Park, South Dakota. Mates cooperated extensively in nest building, defense of nest site, and care of eggs, nestlings, and fledglings. The two sexes specialized in different types of parental care, with the result that both parents were needed to fledge young. Of the types of parental care that I was able to measure, males contributed more than females to raising young and were also more active in expelling intruders and driving away predators. Feeding of young peaked the week after fledging and parental care continued for another 5 to 6 weeks. Individual variability in parental behavior and two cases of the care of young by unrelated adults are also discussed.
10.2307/1370428|King (Somateria spectabilis) and Common Eiders (S. mollissima v-nigra) wintering off western North America migrate past Point Barrow, Alaska and across the Beaufort Sea to nest in northern Alaska and northwestern Canada. Migration counts were conducted by various researchers at Point Barrow during 1953, 1970, 1976, 1987, 1994, and 1996. We examined population trends by standardizing the analysis of the migration counts in all years. Based on this standardized procedure, the King Eider population appeared to remain stable between 1953 and 1976 but declined by 56% (or 3.9% year
10.2307/1367669|We measured seasonal changes in the incidence of various social behaviors performed by members of a captive flock of Canada Geese (Branta canadensis moffitti) in order to determine (a) which of these behaviors were associated with reproduction in a species with long-term monogamy, (b) sexual differences in their expression, and (c) their temporal relationship with nesting events. Breeding and nonbreeding geese were compared. Aggression, Triumph Ceremony, and Calling by breeding male geese reinforced pair bonds and were performed most frequently in the context of territorial display. The Triumph Ceremonies of breeding females also strengthened pair bonds and were probably essential for establishing a territory and reproductive success. Breeding males behaved aggressively most frequently before the initiation of nesting through the incubation period. During incubation, females became increasingly unresponsive to their mate's Triumph Ceremony and by the time their goslings were two weeks old the frequency of their aggressive behaviors was closer to that of their mates than at any other time of the year. These changes coincided with an increase in social gregariousness during brood rearing and molt. Retreat was more common in nonbreeding than breeding geese. Nonbreeding males were not aggressive and performed few Triumph Ceremonies. Their behavior did not elicit supportive responses from nonbreeding females and probably inhibited pair formation.
4501000| We evaluated the influence of weather on reproduction of the Red-shouldered Hawk (Buteo lineatus) in an agricultural landscape in south-central Florida where we found relatively high densities of successfully nesting hawks. We used a generalized linear modeling approach within an information-theoretic framework to examine the influence of total rainfall, rainfall frequency, and temperature on the timing of nesting, nesting success, and productivity of hawks during 1995-2000. The best models indicated an influence of rainfall frequency and laying period on hawk reproduction. During years with less frequent rainfall in the summer and fall months prior to the beginning of the breeding season, fewer pairs attempted to nest, and hawks nested later and had smaller clutch sizes and lower productivity. Hawks that nested later in the breeding season had lower hatching success and lower overall nest success. Although Red-shouldered Hawks are generally reported to inhabit forested landscapes throughout their range, a common feature seems to be a dependence on wetlands and riparian habitat for foraging. We propose that the proportion of wetlands throughout the landscape is a unique aspect of south-central Florida that may allow for persistence of unusually high numbers of hawks. //// Evaluamos la influencia del clima en la reproduccin de Buteo lineatus en un paisaje agrcola en el centro-sur de Florida, donde encontramos densidades relativamente altas de aguiluchos de esta especie nidificando exitosamente. Empleamos un enfoque estadstico de modelos lineales generalizados dentro del marco de la teora de la informacin para examinar la influencia de la precipitacin total, la frecuencia de precipitacin y la temperatura en las fechas de nidificacin sobre el xito de nidificacin y la productividad de los aguiluchos entre 1995 y 2000. Los mejores modelos indicaron una influencia de la frecuencia de la precipitacin y del perodo de puesta sobre la reproduccin de los aguiluchos. Durante los aos con precipitaciones menos frecuentes durante el verano y los meses de otoo anteriores al comienzo de la estacin de cra, un menor nmero de parejas intentaron nidificar, y stas nidificaron ms tarde y tuvieron tamaos de nidada menores con una menor productividad. Los aguiluchos que nidificaron ms tarde en la estacin reproductiva presentaron un xito de eclosin menor y un xito general de nidificacin menor. A pesar de que generalmente se informa que B. lineatus habita paisajes boscosos a lo largo de su rango de distribucin, una caracterstica comn parece ser la dependencia de los humedales y ambientes ribereos para forrajear. Proponemos que la alta proporcin de humedales a lo largo del paisaje es una caracterstica nica del centro-sur de Florida, lo que podra permitir la persistencia de densidades inusualmente altas de aguiluchos. 
10.1525/cond.2010.100063|Previous studies have shown that Eurasian Reed Warblers (
10.1525/cond.2009.080044|Young, immature-plumaged males of species in which plumage maturation is delayed are often unable to obtain mates or pair later in the season to lower-quality females. Their clutches are smaller and the quality of their eggs is lower, leading to fewer nestlings, whose quality and fledging success are reduced. The Saffron Finch (
1370675| The Siberian Jay (Perisoreus infaustus) lives in resident, territorial family groups outside the breeding season, but does not breed cooperatively. Thereby it offers an opportunity to study the evolution of territorial group living, without confounding effects of reproductive cooperation. During a long-term study in Finland 1974-2000, we observed Siberian Jay group composition in autumn. Using microsatellite analysis based on feather or blood samples we clarified kin relations within the groups. We found that out of 311 groups that included at least one more individual than the territory holders, 74% were nuclear families, including breeding birds and 1-3 retained offspring. However, 26% of the groups were not families, but consisted of pairs accompanied only by individuals that were not their offspring. According to extensive pedigrees we found that 70% of the 82 immatures associated with a nonparent pair were not related to either territory holder. Of these 82 immatures, 91% were associated with pairs that had no offspring on their own, suggesting that they were failed breeders or newly established pairs. The composition of groups was mostly unchanged during the observation period within each season, regardless of kinship. Previous studies have reported apparent nepotism between parents and retained offspring in the Siberian Jay, and a high degree of aggression toward nonoffspring, so we did not expect to find such high frequency and remarkable within-season stability of nonfamily groups. These observations suggest that there are important fitness benefits to gain from territoriality and group living, regardless of kinship. /// Los individuos de la especie Perisoreus infaustus viven en grupos familiares residentes que son territoriales durante la poca reproductiva, pero no exhiben cra cooperativa. As, esta especie ofrece la oportunidad de estudiar la evolucin del sistema de vida en grupos territoriales sin los efectos de la cooperacin reproductiva. Observamos la composicin de grupos de P. infaustus en el otoo durante un estudio a largo plazo en Finlandia (1974-2000), y con base en muestras de plumas o sangre, clarificamos las relaciones de parentesco al interior de los grupos mediante anlisis de microsatlites. Encontramos que de 311 grupos que incluan al menos un individuo adicional a los dueos del territorio, el 74% eran ncleos familiares, incluyendo aves reproductivas y 1-3 cras. Sin embargo, el 26% de los grupos no correspondan a familias, sino que consistan de parejas acompaadas slo por individuos que no eran sus cras. Utilizando pedigres detallados, encontramos que el 70% de los 82 inmaduros asociados con una pareja no parental no estaban relacionados con ninguno de los dueos del territorio. De esos 82 inmaduros, el 91% estuvieron asociados con parejas que no tenan cras propias, lo que sugiere que haban tenido intentos de reproduccin fallidos o que se haban establecido recientemente. La composicin de los grupos se mantuvo casi constante durante el perodo de observacin de cada estacin, independientemente del grado de parentesco. Estudios previos haban reportado un aparente nepotismo entre parentales y sus cras y un alto grado de agresividad hacia individuos que no eran sus cras en P. infaustus, por lo que no esperbamos una frecuencia tan alta de grupos no familiares, ni la marcada estabilidad de stos. Estas observaciones sugieren que la territorialidad y la vida en grupo proveen beneficios importantes de adecuacin biolgica, independientemente del grado de parentesco. 
1370539| We used five years of mist-net-capture and point-count data to quantify avian diversity in four habitats along a 1750-m elevational gradient in the Dominican Republic. These habitats include desert thorn scrub, dry forest, pine forest, and montane broadleaf forest, which together comprise more than two-thirds of existing forest on Hispaniola. In midwinter samples we recorded 74 species of landbirds, including 22 species of latitudinal migrants and 19 endemics. The highest diversity and species richness were found in pine forest and dry forest, but the highest capture rate of individuals was in desert thorn scrub. Abundance of migrant individuals was highest in pine forest, whereas pine and montane broadleaf forest contained the highest proportion of endemic species and individuals, and more habitat specialists. Among mist-net captures, insectivorous species and individuals predominated in all habitats except in dry forest, where more omnivorous individuals were captured. A more complex pattern was found in point-count detections: insectivorous species and individuals predominated in most habitats; omnivorous species and individuals were most frequently counted in montane broadleaf and dry forest, respectively; and nectarivorous individuals were most common in desert thorn scrub. Data presented here represent the most complete quantitative record of avian abundance and distribution on Hispaniola. This study not only details the value of these four habitats to various suites of species, but also emphasizes the importance of montane broadleaf and pine forests to large numbers of Neotropical migrants and Hispaniolan endemics, some of which are narrowly restricted to these habitats. /// Utilizamos cinco aos de datos de captura con redes ornitolgicas y de conteos en puntos para cuantificar la diversidad de aves en cuatro hbitats a lo largo de un gradiente altitudinal de 1750 m en la Repblica Dominicana. Estos hbitats incluyen matorral espinoso seco, bosque seco, bosque de conferas y bosque latifoliado montano, los que en conjunto ocupan ms de dos tercios del rea boscosa del pas. En enero y febrero, registramos 74 especies de aves terrestres, incluyendo 22 especies migratorias latitudinales y 19 endmicas. La mayor diversidad y riqueza de especies fue encontrada en el bosque de conferas y en el bosque seco, pero la mayor tasa de captura de individuos se present en el matorral espinoso seco. La abundancia de individuos migratorios fue mayor en el bosque de conferas, mientras que los bosques de conferas y latifoliado montano presentaron la mayor proporcin de individuos y especies endmicas y el mayor nmero de especialistas de hbitat. Entre las capturadas, las especies e individuos insectvoros predominaron en todos los hbitats, excepto en el bosque seco dnde se capturaron ms individuos omnvoros. Entre las aves registradas en los puntos de conteo, los insectvoros tambin predominaron en la mayora de los hbitats, pero registramos ms especies omnvoras e individuos omnvoros en el bosque latifoliado nublado y bosque seco respectivamente. Los individuos nectarvoros fueron ms comunes en el matorral espinoso seco. Los datos presentados aqu representan la cuantificacin ms completa de la abundancia y distribucin de aves en Espaola. Esta investigacin no slo describe en detalle el valor de estos hbitats para los distintos grupos de especies, sino que tambin enfatiza la gran importancia de los bosques latifoliado montano y de conferas para un gran nmero de aves migratorias Neotropicales y endmicas de Espaola, algunas de las cuales se encuentran estrechamente restringidas a estos hbitats. 
10.2307/1368731| The status of North American bird migrants in Paraguay is reviewed and summarized. Observations (from 1987-1989) are reported for 29 of the 32 species documented from Paraguay. New extreme migration dates, maximum counts, and distributional records are reported for many species, including six species of North American migrants documented from Paraguay for the first time: Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus), Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola), Red Knot (Calidris canutus), Sanderling (C. alba), Arctic Tern (Sterna paradisaea), and Purple Martin (Progne subis). Paraguay's Nearctic migrant fauna is dominated by aquatic nonpasserines, especially shorebirds; terrestrial nonpasserines and passerines are poorly represented. Paraguay's fauna is depauperate compared with other Neotropical areas to the north, presumably due to its southern and inland location. Most migrant species feed primarily on invertebrates. More species inhabit wetlands than dry areas. /// Se resume el estado de las aves migrantes norteamericanas en el Paraguay. Se informa en relacin a las observaciones (desde 1987 hasta 1989) para 29 de las 32 especies documentadas para el Paraguay. Se presentan datos referentes a nuevas fechas extremas de migracin, censos mximos y registros distribucionales para muchas especies, incluyendo seis especies de migrantes norteamericanas documentadas para el Paraguay por primera vez: el Halcn Peregrino (Falco peregrinus), Chorlo rtico (Pluvialis squatarola), Playero Rojizo (Calidris canutus), Playerito Blanco (C. alba), Gaviotn rtico (Sterna paradisaea) y Golondrina Purprea (Progne subis). La fauna migrante nertica del Paraguay est dominada por las aves acuticas no-paserinas, especialmente los playeros; las aves terrestres no-paserinas y las paserinas estn pobremente representadas. La fauna paraguaya es pequea en comparacin con otras reas neotropicales ms al norte, presumablemente debido a su ubicacin meridional y lejos del mar. La mayora de las especies migratorias se alimentan principalmente de invertebrados. Se encuentran ms especies en humedales que en reas secas. 
10.2307/1368572|Patterns of intraspecific variability of ingested plastic loads in seabirds were examined for species collected off southern Africa. The incidence of plastic pollution was shown to be increasing during the 1980s. Both large- and small-scale geographic variation in plastic loads occurred as a function of variable plastic density in the environment. Intergenerational transfer of plastic particles was identified as an important pathway for plastic flow in those species that accumulate plastic particles and feed their chicks by regurgitation. This pathway can account for higher plastic loads in nonbreeders and failed breeders than in birds that breed successfully, and such results need not indicate adverse effects from plastic ingestion. Intergenerational transfer resulted in annual cycling of plastic loads in successfully breeding birds. In species that do not regurgitate indigestible stomach contents, immature birds have the largest plastic loads and are most likely to exhibit adverse effects from plastic ingestion.
10.1525/cond.2012.110157|By searching for carcasses weekly year round, we estimated rates of avian fatality from collision with ten 50-m and eight 60-m temporary meteorological towers supported by guy wires near wind turbines at the Altamont Pass (
10.2307/1369327| Widely ranging raptors are difficult to radio-track from fixed locations on the ground; therefore, we investigated the feasibility of tracking Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) from a Cessna 182 airplane outfitted with a belly-mounted, rotary, H-antenna. Locations were estimated by flying directly over the signal's source, and recorded with an on-board global positioning system. Location estimates of stationary and mobile beacons derived from aerial tracking were more accurate than locations derived from triangulation by 4-6 ground-based trackers (x 95% confidence ellipses: aerial = 112 ha, ground = 875 ha). Aerial accuracy was not influenced by mobility of a beacon and was similar for two observers. However, because falcons spend a majority of their time in proximity of their aerie, most aerial fixes were close to the nest site. This resulted in significant underestimates of falcon foraging ranges, especially for breeding males. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120117|In migratory birds, population-genetic structure is generally low, but philopatric species can have fine-scale patterns of differentiation. We investigated the population-genetic structure of the Canada Goose (
10.2307/1369218|The occurrence in Alaska of 74 avian taxa was documented for the first time during 1976-1991, bringing the number of species known to have occurred in Alaska to 436. These added taxa include 20 species and eight subspecies documented for the first time in North America.
10.2307/1369782|Neotropical migrant birds have undergone significant changes in population size, due in part to alterations in the landscape in their breeding range. Some alterations have resulted in the isolation of areas containing optimal habitat for breeding. Isolation between habitat fragments could reduce gene flow between populations, which might result in loss of genetic variation due to genetic drift. To test whether isolation due to distance between populations may affect migratory birds as much as sedentary birds, we used four microsatellite loci as genetic markers to compare gene flow and population structure in migratory and sedentary House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon and T. musculus, respectively). If migratory behavior enhanced gene flow, we expected to find that populations of migratory birds were genetically more similar than populations of sedentary birds, and that gene flow declined more rapidly with distance in sedentary than in migratory populations. Blood samples were collected from 18-25 migratory House Wrens at each of six sites in Ohio separated by distances from 25 to over 300 km, and from 16-20 sedentary House Wrens at each of six sites in Costa Rica, also at distances up to 350 km. We used heterologous microsatellite primers to obtain estimates for R
10.2307/1370461|DNA fingerprinting was used to compare levels of genetic variability within and among eight colonies of Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea borealis) in the Madeira, Azores, Canarias, and Berlenga archipelagoes in the Northeast Atlantic. Fingerprint diversity, as measured by one probe and two restriction enzymes, showed very little correlation with population size, suggesting that genetic diversity reflects historical rather than current population sizes. Mean band sharing between pairs of colonies did not show any relation with between-population geographic distance. However, all between-population similarity indexes were lower than the corresponding within-population similarity index, a trend that suggests a small degree of population structure across the breeding range of this subspecies. Despite banding records suggesting high levels of philopatry, gene flow seems sufficient to prevent considerable divergence at these loci. Alternative and equally plausible explanations for the results also are discussed.
10.2307/1367143|Densities of the Clapper Rail (Rallus longirostris yumanensis) were determined in marshy situations in the lower Colorado River valley in all seasons. We conducted a study to quantify environmental variables important to rails within censused areas along the 450 km of the lower Colorado River north of Mexico in order to learn more about their year-round habitat requirements. Quantified vegetation variables from 40 marsh areas were subjected to principal components analysis; four principal components collectively accounted for 75% of the variance. Habitat breadths of rails were broadest in summer and narrowest in winter. Marshes with the highest rail densities in one season tended to have large rail densities year-round. The converse was true for marshes with low densities. In the first of two analyses, 27 of the marshes (each censused monthly for two years) were used to determine rail associations with the vegetation principal components (PCs). Spearman rank correlations of rail densities with PCs revealed that rails were associated primarily with dense marsh vegetation (PC I) at all seasons. This outcome was tested and confirmed with data from 13 marshes censused during summer 1976 that were not included in the first analysis. One reed (Phragmites australis) and two cattail (Typha domingensis) marshes of moderate foliage density consistently had more rails than expected. One dense cattail marsh consistently had fewer rails than expected. Size of marsh (2-29 ha) and bank slope into the water were apparently unrelated to density of rails per 10 ha. Censuses from this and unpublished recovery team studies suggest a rail population of about 750 birds for the lower Colorado River north of Mexico.
4096481| Adult and juvenile plumage characters were traced onto a well-resolved molecular based phylogeny for Picoides woodpeckers, and a simple phylogenetic test of homology, parallelism, and convergence of plumage characters was performed. Reconstruction of ancestral character states revealed multiple events of independent evolution of derived character states in most characters studied, and a concentrated changes test revealed that some plumage characters evolved in association with habitat type. For example, there was a statistically significant association between loss of dorsal barring and use of densely vegetated habitats among Picoides species. Two analyses indicated that convergence, as opposed to parallel evolution or shared ancestry, underlies the similarity in plumage patterns between the Downy (Picoides pubescens) and Hairy (P. villosus) Woodpeckers. Possible causal explanations for convergence in plumage patterns may include mimicry and interspecific territoriality. /// Se reconstruy la evolucin de caracteres del plumaje de individuos adultos y juveniles con base en una filogenia molecular bien resuelta de los pjaros carpinteros del gnero Picoides. El estudio provee una prueba filogentica sencilla de homologa, paralelismo y convergencia para los caracteres de plumaje. Las reconstrucciones de estados de caracter ancestrales revelaron mltiples eventos de evolucin independiente de estados de caracter derivados en casi todos los caracteres estudiados, y una prueba de cambios concentrados revel que algunos caracteres del plumaje evolucionaron en asociacin con el tipo de hbitat. Por ejemplo, existe una asociacin estadsticamente significativa entre la prdida de barras dorsales y el uso de ambientes con vegetacin densa en las especies de Picoides. DOS anlisis indicaron que la similitud en los patrones de plumaje entre Picoides pubescens y P. villosus puede explicarse por convergencia, no por evolucin paralela o por ancestra comn. Se discuten posibles explicaciones causales para la convergencia, como la imitacin y la territorialidad interespecfica. 
90008438|Stopover locations represent critical habitat in the life cycle of migratory birds and the alteration of this habitat can profoundly influence a population. American Golden-Plovers (
10.2307/1368308|An 18-year study of reproduction and survival of the Florida Everglade (Snail) Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis plumbeus) has revealed the following: extremely poor nesting success (only 13.6% of nests found at the nest-building stage successful); extremely long breeding seasons (some reproductive activity in almost all months in good years); frequent multiple brooding and frequent renesting after failure; low egg hatchability (81%); high failure rates due to nest collapse, desertion, and predation; extremely high survival of juveniles and adults under good water conditions; and high vulnerability to drought due to near total dependency on a single species of drought-sensitive snail for food. Despite low nesting success, the species has increased rapidly under good conditions, mainly because of multiple nesting attempts within long breeding seasons and high survival rates of free-flying birds. Nesting success varied significantly between regions and nest substrates, but not as a function of seasons or solitary vs. colonial nesting. While nesting success was reduced in low water years, this effect was at least partly due to heavy use of poor nest substrates under such conditions. Clutch size and numbers of young per successful nest varied with regions, but not as a function of seasons or water levels. The effects of coloniality on clutch size and numbers of young were inconsistent. Significant effects of nest-substrate types on clutch size and numbers of young were apparently artifacts of substrate differences between regions.
10.1525/cond.2012.110037|Traits under strong directional or stabilizing selection can nonetheless vary considerably if the selective forces impinging on them vary in strength or direction. Although such variation is commonly manifested between unrelated individuals, some of the largest differences occur between siblings because of differences in their developmental experience. This is exemplified by the broods of altricial birds, in which asynchronous hatching produces a competitive hierarchy that influences an individuals developmental rate and fitness. Using Lincolns Sparrow (
10.2307/1368268|We examined the patterns of food resource utilization (guild structure) of 41 species of birds that breed in eucalypt forests and woodlands in south temperate Australia, and compared them to the results of a similar study in a north temperate, broad-leaved forest in North America (Holmes et al. 1979). Both studies used the same field methods and analytical techniques. The Australian community was more complex as inferred from the greater number of guilds (9 vs. 4) and from the results of principal components and factor analyses of the foraging data. These multivariate methods showed that guilds at the Australian site were separated first by differences in foraging height and bird weight, and second by foraging methods and food substrates. Use of specific foraging substrates (e.g., exfoliating bark) and food resources (e.g., nectar and other carbohydrates) were important at finer scales of separation. The results support the hypothesis that vegetation structure and food availability, which vary with plant species and vertical strata, produce particular sets of foraging opportunities for birds. These in turn influence which species can obtain food successfully, and thus can be considered primary determinants of guild structure. This comparison of food utilization patterns of birds in contrasting habitats provides insight into the factors determining bird community organization.
10.2307/1369994|The amount of old growth balsam fir (Abies balsamea) forest (80+ years) in Newfoundland, Canada has declined and management towards a 60-year rotation age will further reduce the availability of old forest as wildlife habitat. We distinguished among three mature age-classes of forests (40-59, 60-79, and 80+ years) based on tree density, canopy gaps, woody debris, and moss and litter cover on the ground. Canonical correspondence analysis revealed two groups of stands: one containing all of the 40-year-old stands and most 60-year-old stands, and a second that included old growth stands and 4 of 10 60-year-old stands. Forest birds were separated into four groups: one preferring the youngest stands, another observed primarily in old stands, and two others that were intermediate. Bird species richness was greater in 40-year-old forests than in 60+ and 80+-year-old stands. Black-backed Woodpecker (Picoides arcticus) and Gray-cheeked Thrush (Hylocichla minima) were most abundant in old forests. Six other species also were grouped together with the latter two as an old forest group. We observed more species and more total birds breeding on productive forest site types than on less-productive sites based on a forest ecosystem classification, and five species showed significant relationships between density and site quality. We observed few relationships between stand age and migratory strategy. The only guild for which there was a significant relationship of abundance with forest age was cone seedeaters, which were more common in second-growth forests than in old forest. To maintain avian diversity in these forest landscapes, some stands must be allowed to develop as old growth.
10.2307/1369318|Kleptoparasitic activities by Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) on Masked Boobies (Sula dactylatra) were quantified on Henderson Island in the South Pacific. The frequency of kleptoparasitic attacks increased towards dusk, the time when most Masked Boobies returned to the roost site. Masked Boobies returning to the roost low (<30 m) over the water were significantly more likely to be chased than those returning at a higher altitude. Single boobies were also significantly more likely to be attacked than boobies returning as one of a group of birds. However, group size and height were positively correlated. There was no effect of group size on the likelihood of attack. Sixteen percent of chases were successful and the success rate was not influenced by either the height or the distance of the target from the roost. The duration of the chase was, however, influenced by the position of the target: chases on distant or high targets lasted significantly longer than chases on targets that were low or close to the roost. In addition successful chases were significantly longer than unsuccessful ones. We discuss these results in relation to the chase tactics of frigatebirds, the avoidance tactics of boobies and the energetic costs and benefits of kleptoparasitism. Approximately 40% of daily energy expenditure of some individual Great Frigatebirds may be secured through kleptoparasitism. However, on average, frigatebirds may be meeting under five percent of their daily energy demands by this feeding method.
10.2307/1368537| Avian eggs usually experience temperatures of 30 to 40C during the incubation period, but eggs often cool to much lower temperatures. Hyperthermia is less common. Passerines do not show higher incubation temperatures than other orders that have been studied extensively. Field measurements of incubation temperatures are usually lower than the optimal temperatures for development found in laboratory studies. Some species regulate egg temperatures closely throughout incubation; but in at least one penguin species, mean egg temperature increases and ranges of egg temperature decrease through the incubation period. Both the optimal temperature for continuous exposure and the range of temperatures producing high survivorship differ among species. Species also differ in their responses to temperature exposures of limited duration. Thus, the use of a "physiological zero" applicable to all species is not warranted. Penguins have both a lower optimum and a broader range of acceptable incubation temperatures than do other species studied. Age, duration, and temperature of exposure significantly affect survivorship. Hyperthermia is evidently more injurious to the developing embryo than is hypothermia. Resistance to cold exposure is a heritable trait, but the genetics and physiology of the response(s) are not known. For older embryos, the physiological effects of hyperthermia are similar to those of adult birds in terms of the organ systems that are first to fail. An estimate of thermal tolerance for short exposures in most species studied is 16 to 41C and, for exposures lasting several hours, 36 to 39C. 
4122539| Studies of stopover durations of migrating birds using mark-recapture and resighting techniques are usually restricted to only a part of a stopover site. Therefore, estimates of stopover duration may be negatively biased if birds leave the trapping area permanently, but remain within the stopover site (permanent local emigration). We tested this possible effect by comparing stopover durations of Orphean Warblers (Sylvia hortensis) estimated from recapture and resighting data obtained from a trapping area covering only a part of a stopover site with durations estimated from relocation data of radio-marked individuals sampled over the entire stopover site. To test a possible effect of the different reencounter techniques on stopover duration estimates we compared estimates of stopover duration derived from the recapture and resighting data with those derived from the relocation data restricted to the same trapping area. Stopover duration estimated from relocation data obtained from the entire stopover site was twice as long as stopover duration estimated from recapture and resighting data. While similar estimates of stopover duration were obtained from relocation data when data from only the restricted trapping area were used, the proportion of transients was different between the two data sets. The different estimates of stopover duration were most likely not due to permanent local emigration, but rather to violations of essential model assumptions, such as equal catchability or that the probability of staying for another day is independent of the time a bird has already spent at the stopover site. /// Los estudios sobre la duracin de las paradas de las aves migratorias que emplean tcnicas de marcado-recaptura y observaciones repetidas estn usualmente restringidos a una parte del sitio de parada. Por lo tanto, las estimaciones de la duracin de la parada pueden estar sesgadas negativamente si las aves abandonan el rea donde son capturadas de modo permanente, pero permanecen dentro del sitio de parada (emigracin local permanente). Evaluamos este posible efecto comparando las duraciones de las paradas de Sylvia hortensis estimadas a partir de datos de recaptura y de observaciones repetidas obtenidos de un rea de captura que cubra slo una parte del sitio de parada, con la duracin estimada a partir de datos de relocalizacin de individuos marcados con radios muestreados en todo el sitio de parada. Para evaluar un posible efecto de las diferentes tcnicas de re-encuentro sobre las estimaciones de la duracin de la parada, comparamos las estimaciones de duracin de la parada derivadas de los datos de recaptura y de observaciones repetidas, con aquellas derivadas de datos de relocalizacin restringidos a la misma rea de captura. La duracin de la parada estimada a partir de los datos obtenidos de la totalidad del sitio de parada fue dos veces mayor que la estimada a partir de los datos de recaptura y de observaciones repetidas. Aunque se obtuvieron estimaciones similares de la duracin de la parada a partir de datos de relocalizacin cuando se utilizaron slo datos restringidos al rea de captura, la proporcin de individuos transitorios fue diferente entre los dos conjuntos de datos. Las diferentes estimaciones de la duracin de la parada probablemente no se debieron a la emigracin local permanente, sino ms bien al incumplimiento de los supuestos esenciales del modelo, como la igualdad en la probabilidad de captura o a que la probabilidad de permanecer un da adicional es independiente del tiempo que el ave ha pasado en el sitio de parada. 
10.2307/1367031|Sexually distinct rhythms of nest attendance were documented for Blue-eyed Shags (Phalacrocorax atriceps) in Antarctica. Males attended the nest from approximately 00:00-12:00 and foraged approximately from 12:00-24:00. Female activity patterns were the opposite. Timing of male courtship occurred around 12:00 during the prelaying and laying-incubation periods, and timing of chick feeding was also sexually distinct. Males fed chicks in the early morning and late evening while females fed chicks in the afternoon. The rhythms were colony-wide and, at least, partially influenced by times of sunrise and sunset. Although specific adaptive pressures influencing these patterns are unknown, intersexual foraging competition is presented as a possible explanation relative to other theories.
10.2307/1369111|During seven autumn seasons, Mountain White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) departed on migration from a subalpine meadow in September and October. On average, juveniles migrated 3.2 days earlier than adults and there was no difference in schedules of males and females within these two classes. Data from frequently trapped individuals showed that they departed as soon as they became fat. Peaks in departure dates did occur but only once did one occur just before a storm. Mean departure dates among years varied by 14 days in juveniles and eight days in adults. This interannual variation was related to reproductive schedule; departure of the population being delayed by about one day for every two days of delay in nesting (the latter being caused by late-lying snows). Reasons for a decrease in the fledging-migration interlude in juveniles in heavy snow years could have involved an overlapping of postjuvenal molt with premigratory fattening and/or telescoping of molt. Late-born young did not migrate later than those born earlier nor were they leaner at the time of departure. Temporal compensation in adults during heavy snow years was accomplished primarily by overlapping postnuptial molt with parental care and sometimes with premigratory fattening because molt duration did not decrease with season. Premigratory fattening occurred in about nine days in all birds with the average gain per day being 2.3 to 2.6% of initial body mass for the four sex-age groups. Propensity to return to the study area was not related to the body mass at departure in the previous autumn or to its date. It was hypothesized that the attainment of peak fat stores usually served as the proximate stimulus for migration.
10.2307/1369507|We studied survival rates of Northern Pintail (Anas acuta; hereafter pintail) broods and ducklings along the lower Kashunuk River on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. Survival rates were determined for 770 ducklings in 111 broods. Brood sizes at hatch were smaller in 1993 versus 1991 and 1992. Duckling survival rates were lower than those reported in previous studies and differed among years. Survival rates of ducklings declined with hatching date at a rate of 0.6% per day. Most mortality occurred during the first 10 days after hatch. Duckling survival rates were correlated with reported annual and seasonal variation in nesting success. This covariation probably results in large geographic and annual fluctuations in pintail production on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta. Early nesting pintails had better nesting success and duckling survival, which may offset higher nutritional costs of early nesting through higher recruitment.
90008531|Degradation of nesting habitat for coastal birds has led to the use of nontraditional nesting habitat. The American Oystercatcher (
1370516| Surveys of the North American race of the Red Knot (Calidris canutus rufa) on its main wintering areas on the coasts of Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego (Argentina and Chile) showed a dramatic decline in the wintering population: totals in 2003 were about 30 000 compared to 67 500 in the mid-1980s. Numbers at the principal wintering site, Bahia Lomas, fell by approximately 50%, from 45 300 in 2000 to 22 000-25 000 in 2002-2003. Numbers at peripheral sites on the coast of Patagonia declined dramatically, decreasing 98% compared to numbers in the mid-1980s. The results showed that declines at core sites did not result from birds moving to other places within the known wintering (or other) areas, but reflected a general population decline, with most birds now restricted to key sites in Tierra del Fuego. This phenomenon may explain why long-term declines noted elsewhere have only recently become apparent at key wintering areas. Possible reasons for the declines are discussed. Banding studies in Delaware Bay have shown that in recent years an increasing proportion of Red Knots is unable to gain sufficient weight for migration to the breeding grounds. This is likely due to reductions in their main food resource, eggs of the horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus. The resulting increase in mortality could account for the magnitude and severity of the declines we observed. /// Censos de la raza norteamericana de Calidris canutus (rufa) en sus reas de invernada principales en las costas de la Patagonia y Tierra del Fuego (Argentina y Chile) mostraron una disminucin dramtica en la poblacin invernante. Los totales en 2003 fueron aproximadamente 30 000, comparados con 67 500 a mediados de los aos 80. Los nmeros en el sitio principal de invernada (Baha Lomas) decayeron en aproximadamente un 50%, de 45 300 en 2000 a 22 000-25 000 en 2002-2003. Los nmeros en sitios perifricos en la costa de Patagonia declinaron dramticamente, en un 98% en comparacin con los nmeros de mediados de los ochenta. Los resultados mostraron que las disminuciones en los sitios ncleo no fueron el resultado de que las aves se movieran a otros sitios dentro del rango invernal conocido, o a otras reas. En cambio, reflejaron una disminucin general de la poblacin; la mayora de las aves estn ahora restringidas a sitios claves en Tierra del Fuego. Este fenmeno podra explicar por qu las disminuciones poblacionales de largo plazo detectadas en otros lugares slo se han hecho aparentes ahora en las reas claves de invernada. Se discuten las posibles causas de las disminuciones. Estudios de anillamiento en la baha de Delaware han mostrado que en aos recientes una mayor proporcin de las aves es incapaz de incrementar su peso hasta los niveles necesarios para la migracin hacia las reas de invernada. Esto probablemente es debido a reducciones en su principal recurso alimenticio, los huevos de Limulus polyphemus. El incremento en mortalidad resultante podra explicar la magnitud y la severidad de las disminuciones poblacionales que observamos. 
1370387| Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain facultative manipulation of sex ratios in birds, but existing data are inconsistent within and among species, and do not clearly support any one of the hypotheses. The sex ratio among breeding Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) at Bird Island, Massachusetts is female-biased (56%). We sought to determine at what stage of the life cycle this sex ratio bias is established. We monitored 461 eggs from 252 nests and, using molecular markers, we sexed 342 chicks at hatching and followed them to a stage when survival (or non-survival) to fledging could be inferred. We found that the sex ratio at hatching (and, by inference, at fertilization) was biased toward females (55%). This bias was significant in chicks from first-laid eggs (58%) but not second-laid eggs (48%). We also found that the overall bias increased (to 56.6%) during the chick stage through differential loss of male chicks. /// Varias hiptesis han intentando explicar la modificacion facultativa de la proporcin de sexos en aves. Sin embargo, los datos que se han recopilado hasta ahora muestran inconsistencias entre especies y dentro de una misma especie, por lo cual no son suficientes para validar ninguna de las hiptesis. Para Sterna dougallii, la proporcin de sexos en Bird Island, Massachusetts est desviada hacia las hembras en un 56%. El objetivo del presente estudio fue determinar en cual estadio del ciclo de vida se establece la proporcion de sexos para esta especie. Se monitorearon 461 huevos provenientes de 252 nidos, y por medio de marcadores moleculares se sexaron 342 pollos al momento de la eclosin; el desarrollo posterior de estos pollos se evalu hasta la etapa en la cual se pudo inferir la sobrevivencia al emplumado. Encontramos que la proporcion de sexos al momento de la eclosin (y por lo tanto, al momento de la fertilizacin) estuvo mayoritariamente desviada hacia las hembras (55%). Esta proporcin fue significativa para pollos nacidos del primer huevo empollado (58%) pero no para pollos nacidos del segundo huevo empollado (48%). Tambin encontramos que la desviacin en la proporcin de sexos se increment (hasta 56.6%) debido a la mortalidad diferencial de pollos machos. 
10.2307/1369716|In most temperate zone songbirds, singing is solely a behavior of males. However, in some species, such as the Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), both sexes sing, and in both, songs are learned. The song of male and female cardinals sounds very similar to the human ear. Whether songs learned by the two sexes can be sexually dimorphic in acoustic structure has never been examined. In the present study, I carried out detailed analyses of the acoustic structure of male and female songs. Songs of the two sexes proved to be dimorphic with respect to the degree of syllable stereotypy and the amplitude of harmonics. These findings show that vocalizations that are learned by the two sexes can be sexually dimorphic.
10.2307/1369503|The aim of this study was to investigate how parental care in Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) females affected their habitat selection. I compared the post-nesting behavior of brood-caring females and females without young. Females that cared for ducklings and females without young moved similar distances from the nesting colony to the feeding areas. However, throughout the brood rearing season, females without young undertook longer secondary movements than brood-caring females. The type of feeding habitat used and the feeding mode were similar among the different female categories, and all females that had attempted to nest foraged in the intertidal zone by dabbling. This study suggests that in a large sea duck like the Common Eider, with highly developed ducklings at hatching, parental care does not constrain habitat use very much compared to females without young.
10.2307/1369206|To assess correlates of the timing of cranial pneumatization in wintering White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis), we repeatedly determined the stage of pneumatization of marked individuals in the field following autumnal migration. There were pronounced differences among individuals and among years in the timing of cranial pneumatization. Pneumatization occurred later in larger individuals, as indicated by wing length, but the timing of pneumatization was not related to dates of arrival in wintering areas nor to social dominance.
1369688|We investigated dominance relationships and the use of male badge size as a status signal in a mixed-sex flock of House Sparrows (Passer domesticus). Specifically, we tested whether females differ from males in their fighting behavior or dominance status, and whether badge size predicts dominance and fighting success of males in male-female fights. We found that both sexes were involved frequently in aggressive encounters, and the mean dominance rank of males did not differ from the mean rank of females. Badge size was the only significant predictor of the dominance rank of males, and was a good predictor of their aggressiveness measured as the proportion of fights initiated. On the other hand, female dominance rank was correlated with body weight. In male-female fights, both the proportion of female-initiated aggressive interactions and the proportion of fights won by females decreased with increasing size of the opponent's badge. Large-badged males dominated more females in dyadic interactions than smaller-badged males. These correlational results suggest that male badge size may be used as a signal of dominance status between male and female House Sparrows in winter flocks.
40306194|Our knowledge of avian behaviors during the nonbreeding period still lags behind that of the breeding season, but the last decade has witnessed a proliferation in research that has yielded significant progress in understanding migration patterns of North American birds. And, although historically the great majority of migration research has been conducted in the eastern half of the continent, there has been much recent progress on aspects of avian migration in the West. In particular, expanded use of techniques such as radar, plasma metabolites, mist-netting, count surveys, stable isotopes, genetic data, and animal tracking, coupled with an increase in multi-investigator collaborations, have all contributed to this growth of knowledge. There is increasing recognition that migration is likely the most limiting time of year for migratory birds, increasing the importance of continuing to decipher patterns of stopover ecology, identifying critical stopover habitats, and documenting migration routes in the diverse and changing landscapes of the American West. Here, we review and briefly synthesize the latest findings and advances in avian migration and consider research needs to guide future research on migration in the West.
10.2307/1370134|Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) often remove host eggs, usually to the detriment of the host's reproductive success. We tested the hypothesis that host egg size and number influence the incubation efficiency of a parasitic egg. A single House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) or Brown-headed Cowbird egg was placed in each host nest (addition), and in some nests a host egg was removed as well (addition/removal). Hatching success and incubation length were measured to determine whether host-egg removal conferred an advantage in incubation efficiency compared to simple addition of a parasitic egg. Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) and Chipping Sparrows (Spizella passerina) served as medium-sized and small-sized host species, respectively. In Red-winged Blackbird nests, host-egg removal produced smaller clutches, and parasitic eggs had shorter incubation lengths in smaller clutches. However, the parasitic egg's incubation length and probability of hatching did not differ between the addition and addition/removal treatments. Parasitic eggs in Chipping Sparrow nests had shorter incubation periods than in blackbird nests and frequently caused the inefficient incubation of host eggs. Egg removal again did not reduce incubation lengths or increase hatchability of parasitic eggs. Thus, we found little support for the incubation efficiency hypothesis to explain host-egg removal by Brown-headed Cowbirds.
1370749| When nectar is dilute, nectar-feeding birds must ingest relatively large volumes to compensate for its low caloric value. We hypothesized that consumption of large volumes of dilute nectar leads to higher energetic requirements, as a result of factors such as increased foraging activity or the need to warm larger volumes of liquid to body temperature. We tested this hypothesis in Lesser Double-collared Sunbirds (Nectarinia chalybea) by feeding birds kept at 20C either 0.2 or 1.2 M sucrose. We found that during the day, mass-specific metabolic rate was 15% higher on the dilute than on the concentrated diet. Virtually this entire increase can be accounted for by calculated food-warming costs. /// Cuando un ave nectarvora se alimenta de nctar diludo se ve forzada a ingerir grandes volmenes para compensar por su bajo contenido energtico. Hipotetizamos que el consumir grandes volmenes de nctar diludo implica un costo energtico adicional para las aves. Este costo es el resultado del incremento en la actividad de forrajeo y en la cantidad de energa necesaria para calentar grandes volmenes de alimento a la temperatura corporal. Probamos esta hiptesis de manera experimental en Nectarinia chalybea (Nectarinidae). Aves mantenidas en cautiverio a 20C fueron alimentadas con una de dos soluciones de sacarosa (0.2 o 1.2 M). Encontramos que las aves alimentadas con la solucin diluida mostraron un gasto metablico corregido a su masa corporal un 15% mayor que el de las aves que se alimentaron de la solucin concentrada. Este costo parece ser explicado solamente por el costo requerido para calentar el nctar a la temperatura corporal. 
1369680|A new, second specimen of the tiny Middle Eocene bird Gracilitarsus mirabilis Mayr 1998 shows several previously unknown osteological features. The species represents a bauplan unknown among recent birds in that it combines swallow-like length proportions of the major wing bones with a long and slender tarsometatarsus. The feet of Gracilitarsus mirabilis are highly unusual in that the three anterior toes are very short and of nearly equal length, and in that the claws are of great dorso-ventral depth. Gracilitarsus mirabilis is classified within a new family in this study. The species shares some derived characters of the tarsometatarsus with the Paleocene South American species Eutreptodactylus itaboraiensis Baird and Vickers-Rich 1997.
10.2307/1369033|Birds have increased energy and nutrient requirements during molt. Estimation of these costs has proven difficult; consequently, the nutritional significance of molt relative to other annual cycle events remains unclear. Here we describe patterns of molt for Ring-necked Ducks (Aythya collaris) throughout their annual cycle. A method was developed for indexing molting costs of waterfowl based on intensity of molt and proportional mass of feathers in eight feather regions (ADJMOLT). This method was then applied to Ring-necked Ducks so that we might examine molting costs in relation to sex and age of birds, month, and annual cycle events. To assess nutritional stress (demands greater than available resources) associated with molt, we examined the relation between remige length and structural size of adults. Contour feather molt in the head and neck, sides and flank, upper breast and back, lower breast and belly, mid-rump and lower back, scapular, humeral, and rectral feather regions varied by sex and month for first-year and after-first-year (adults) Ring-necked Ducks. Mean molt scores (i.e., molt averaged over all feather regions) and ADJMOLT of adults also varied by sex and month. The pattern of change in ADJMOLT was trimodal in females and bimodal in males. ADJMOLT of both sexes was greatest during the period of remigial molt (August) and was also elevated during winter (December and January). ADJMOLT was reduced during spring (March) and fall (October) migrations. Whereas molt remained at low levels in males throughout the breeding season, females initiated prebasic molt after arrival on breeding areas and were molting intensively while acquiring energy and nutrients needed for reproduction. Thus it was apparent that although molting costs were mostly staggered with minimal overlap with other energy- and nutrient-demanding processes, timing of molt in the annual cycle of Ring-necked Ducks was also influenced by non-nutritional factors (e.g., date). Remige lengths were significantly (albeit weakly) related to structural size of both males and females. We therefore concluded that, although costs of molt were greatest while birds were molting remiges, there was no evidence that molting Ring-necked Ducks were nutritionally stressed.
10.2307/1368385|Approximately 400 Common Chaffinches (Fringilla coelebs) were introduced last century into New Zealand from England. These founders and their descendents have been such successful colonizers that they are now among the most abundant and widespread passerine species in the region. To assess the amount of differentiation that has developed in the period of about 90-120 years, we sampled populations in the North and South islands of New Zealand, and a population isolated on Chatham Island 800 km to the east. Chaffinches have differentiated very little genetically and morphometrically, in sharp contrast to colonizing species such as House Sparrows (Passer domesticus), Common Mynas (Acridotheres tristis), and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) introduced contemporaneously. Population differentiation does not fit geographically ordered patterns such as clines or isolation-by-distance, and there is no convincing evidence of selection for climatic adaptation or non-selective environmental induction. Random drift is implicated as the primary causal agent for the haphazard pattern of geographic variation, which implies that genetic and morphometric characters are now effectively neutral with respect to selection. Comparison with populations in Europe, North Africa, and the Atlantic islands suggests that microevolutionary processes of population divergence in New Zealand can be extrapolated through time to explain intraspecific and interspecific diversity in chaffinches.
90008447|The Scarlet Macaw (
10.2307/1369939|Throughout coastal regions of the world, pasturelands often augment important and declining intertidal foraging habitats for nonbreeding shorebirds (Suborder Charadrii). Little is known, however, about factors influencing bird use of pastures. Hence, we examined the spatial distribution of shorebirds in coastal pastures near Humboldt Bay, California from October 1991-May 1992 and correlated spatial distribution patterns with environmental and habitat variables. Shorebirds used pastures in a nonrandom (clumped) fashion. Pasture use varied seasonally for Killdeer (Charadrius vociferus), Marbled Godwit (Limosa fedoa), and Common Snipe (Gallinago gallinago); Dunlin (Calidris alpina) and Black-bellied Plover (Pluvialis squatarola) use increased when it rained, and Dunlin, Black-bellied Plover, and Killdeer use increased nearer the time of a new moon. At the level of the individual pasture, the likelihood of encountering most species (5 of 6) increased as vegetation height decreased. The likelihood of pasture use by Dunlin and Killdeer increased when shorebirds used pastures the previous week. Extensive, nonrandom use of coastal pastures by nonbreeding shorebirds indicates that conservation planning for shorebirds should consider habitat characteristics. In the vicinity of Humboldt Bay and other coastal bays, use of pastures by shorebirds can be increased by practices that provide short vegetation. Although shorebird use did not correlate with use of pastures by cattle, grazing by livestock is probably the means by which to achieve habitat characteristics attractive to shorebirds while maintaining compatible human uses on private lands. Regular use of some pastures by shorebirds indicates that site faithfulness may be important and that "traditional" sites need to be identified and protected.
10.1525/cond.2011.100001|Examining incubation behavior during laying and that behavior's consequences on patterns of hatching can help discriminate among hypotheses competing to explain the evolution of asynchronous hatching. Consequently, I documented nest attentiveness and patterns of hatching of American Coots (
10.2307/1370062|We studied the onset of incubation in the Green-rumped Parrotlet (Forpus passerinus), a cavity-nesting species with female-only incubation starting on the first egg and asynchronous hatching. We quantified how the onset of incubation varied among individual females, with stage of egg-laying and by ultimate clutch size. We then examined whether this variation affected the incubation period and hatching success of individual eggs. Female parrotlets initiated incubation in three characteristic patterns: slowly rising, rapidly rising, and pulsed. The diurnal incubation rate of the first egg was 80.0% and increased as the laying cycle progressed, but was not affected by ultimate clutch size. Females that were fed more often by their mates during laying had lower incubation rates. First-laid eggs had longer incubation periods than later-laid eggs, but nearly all eggs hatched in the order they were laid. Hatching success was not affected by laying order. Despite the strong hatching asynchrony and consistent first-egg incubation exhibited by this species, we found significant variation in the onset of incubation, although no serious fitness consequences of this variation were detected.
1370363| Beissinger and Snyder present a commentary on our recent paper on spatial and temporal variability in nest success of Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis) in Florida (Dreitz et al. 2001). Beissinger and Snyder reanalyze a subset of data presented in our original paper to show that water levels have a significant influence on nest success. To make their argument, the authors conduct separate analyses for 5 of the original 11 wetlands; including only those having the most data. We agree with Beissinger and Snyder that water levels can affect nest success in some areas or years, as we stated in Dreitz et al. (2001). However, the purpose of our original paper was to examine the influences of nest success over broad spatial and temporal scales. When viewed in this context, using a meta-analysis, water levels alone explain only a small amount of the observed variation in nest success. One of the advantages of using a meta-analysis is that it uses all of the available data to provide an indication of the overall magnitude of an effect, which can easily be misinterpreted when viewed in a narrower context of individual study sites. We discuss the management implications of these alternative perspectives on water levels in light of their effect on habitat quality and persistence. /// Beissinger y Snyder presentan un comentario sobre nuestro reciente trabajo que considera la variacin espacial y temporal en el xito de nidificacin de Rostrhamus sociabilis en Florida (Dreitz et al. 2001). Beissinger y Snyder reanalizan un subconjunto de los datos presentados en nuestro trabajo original para mostrar que el nivel del agua tiene una influencia significativa en el xito de nidificacin. Para elaborar su argumento, los autores analizan separadamente 5 de los 11 humedales originales, incluyendo solamente aquellos con mayor cantidad de datos. Estamos de acuerdo con Beissinger y Snyder en que el nivel del agua puede afectar el xito de nidificacin en algunas reas o aos, como exponemos en Dreitz et al. (2001). Sin embargo, el propsito original de nuestro trabajo fue examinar los factores que influencian el xito reproductivo a una escala espacial y temporal amplia. Vista de este modo, usando un meta-anlisis, el nivel del agua por separado explica solamente una pequea cantidad de la variacin observada en el xito de nidificacin. Una de las ventajas de usar un meta-anlisis es que utiliza todos los datos disponibles para indicar la magnitud global de un efecto, el cual puede ser fcilmente malinterpretado cuando es visto en un contexto msacotado basado en sitios de estudio individuales. Discutimos las implicancias de manejo de estas perspectivas alternativas sobre el nivel del agua en relacin a su efecto sobre la calidad del hbitat y la persistencia. 
10.2307/1368435|Variation in the Brown Towhee (Pipilo fuscus) complex was studied by using morphometric and electrophoretic methods. Study taxa, distributed primarily in the aridlands of southwestern North America, included Abert's Towhee (P. aberti), White-throated Towhee (P. albicollis), and two major components of the Brown Towhee (eastern fuscus group and western crissalis group); a sample of Brown Towhees from Baja California (crissalis group) was also included. Goals were to assess phenotypic (29 skeletal characters) and genetic (allozymic) patterns of differentiation, test current species limits, estimate phylogenetic relationships, and examine concordance in morphometric and genetic variation. Evolution in skeletal size and proportions has occurred primarily in the skull; taxa are not each distinct in principal component space. Phenograms based on taxonomic distances and correlation coefficients failed to reflect currently recognized species limits. A survey of 39 genetic loci revealed typical levels of genetic variation within and among taxa. However, the genetic distance between P. albicollis and P. fuscus from Arizona was nearly zero. The fuscus and crissalis groups were genetically distinct. Branching diagrams (phenograms, distance Wagner trees, maximum likelihood trees) summarizing genetic distances derived from a matrix of allelic frequencies suggest the following ordering of taxa: Abert's Towhee, Brown Towhee (fuscus) plus White-throated Towhee, and Brown Towhees from California and Baja California (crissalis). Based on the genetic data, the Brown Towhee as currently recognized is paraphyletic. The two forms of the Brown Towhee should be considered distinct species (Pipilo fuscus and Pipilo crissalis).
10.2307/1368645|I report on handling methods and efficiencies of 26 species of Paraguayan birds feeding on fruits of Allophyllus edulis (Sapindaceae). A bird may swallow fruits whole (Type I: pluck and swallow feeders), hold a fruit and cut the pulp from the seed with the edge of the bill, swallowing the pulp but not the seed (Type II: cut or mash feeders), or take bites of pulp from a fruit that hangs from the tree or that is held and manipulated against a branch (Type III: push and bite feeders). In terms of absolute amount of pulp obtained from a fruit, and amount obtained per unit time, Type I species are far more efficient than Type II and III species. Bill morphology influences feeding methods but is not the only important factor. Diet breadth does not appear to be significant. Consideration of feeding efficiency relative to the needs of the birds indicates that these species need to spend relatively little time feeding to meet their estimated energetic needs, and that handling time has a relatively trivial effect on the time/energy budgets of the bird species observed.
10.2307/1367403|New methods are presented for examining the function of the incubation patch in the nest-building process. These involve direct interference with the tactile sensitivity of the brood patch and hence its ability to assess nest size and texture. The patch may be covered with a pliable plastic apron or rendered completely insensitive to touch by surgical denervation. Data from several experiments employing such methods indicate that the incubation patch is not required for construction of a nest of normal size and composition by Canaries. In addition, its absence does not affect the birds' disinterest in nest-building as egg-laying approaches. The results suggest that receptors in places other than the incubation patch may be used in its absence to assess nest quality and size.
10.2307/1370477|We tested female and male Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia) from a Pennsylvania site for discrimination between local songs and foreign songs recorded in New York. In Experiments 1 and 2 we measured the copulatory response of female Song Sparrows to playback of local and foreign songs. In Experiment 3 we measured the aggressive response of territorial males to playback. We used mean responses per subject as sample points in the statistical analysis in Experiment 1, but to avoid pseudoreplication we designed Experiments 2 and 3 with sufficient numbers of exemplars of local and foreign songs to use mean responses per exemplar as sample points. Responses in all three experiments were significantly stronger for local than for foreign songs. Song Sparrow songs show a great deal of variation within locales, and a pattern of gradual and subtle geographic change, so it is not obvious how or why our subjects performed the discrimination.
10.2307/1369061|We monitored postbreeding movements of 34 Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) hens that nested in Suisun Marsh, California, in 1987 using radio telemetry. Hens began leaving Suisun Marsh in late May, and 50% had departed by mid-June. We located 27 of 34 hens from late June through September during aerial searches; 25 hens had migrated north out of the study area, and two remained near the nesting area. We determined the molting areas of 20 hens: nine in Oregon and 11 in California. These molting areas were 12-536 km from nesting sites. Wetlands used by molting Mallards were dominated by bulrush (Scirpus spp.) and cattail (Typha spp.), were traditionally flooded during summer, and often associated with lakes or rivers. Molting areas of seven hens located at least once after leaving the study area were not determined, and seven other hens were never relocated indicating probable migration north of the search area. Two hens were recaptured in 1988 and radio-tracked to molting areas used the previous year, 121 and 484 km north of the breeding area. Mallards appear to exhibit site fidelity to molting areas. Migrating to an area with preferred molting habitat may enhance survival during the flightless period and early part of the hunting season.
10.2307/1368079|Timing of cloacal sperm releases by males and inseminations of females was studied by means of cloacal lavage with six emberizid species: Northern Cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), Rose-breasted Grosbeak (Pheucticus ludovicianus), Indigo Bunting (Passerina cyanea), Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus), Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater), and Northern Oriole (Icterus galbula), near Foley, Missouri, for six consecutive years. Individual birds (n = 921) and their recaptures (n = 275) supplied 1,196 cloacal lavage sets. Usually both first nuptial and older males released sperm continuously; species differed in sperm release starting date and in relation to migration/arrival and date of first detected insemination. Monogamous species, as well as those more structured socially, had spring-early summer inseminations clustered around one or two times (insemination phases) presumptively generative for first and second broods. The percentage of males releasing sperm varied by species from 82 to 100% during the year's first insemination phase, and 92 to 100% during the second. Brevity of insemination phases in most species, and their temporal proximity with laying, indicated that in these, earlier copulations are apt to be courtship-but not insemination-related. Percent of captured females with whole (fresh) cloacal sperm varied by species from 13 to 59% during the first insemination phase and 10 to 78% during the second. Results presented demonstrate the efficacy of intensive and quantitative cloacal lavage for providing data about hitherto neglected important aspects of individual and populational reproductive strategies and environmental responses.
10.2307/1368117|Possible occurrence of insemination, and circumstances of sperm release and insemination, during spring migration were studied with the aid of cloacal lavages from 139 Tennessee Warblers (Vermivora peregrina) sampled and released at Galveston, Texas, Foley, Missouri, and Long Point, Ontario, 1982 to 1988. Twenty-five percent (13/52) of females at Foley had been inseminated recently and were members of a subgroup having greater wing and tail lengths. Crown color was not associated with sperm release or insemination. Males releasing sperm at Foley averaged greater in body weight and earlier in time of capture during the day. Number of males releasing sperm and number of sperm being released per male increased progressively during the migration period at Foley. Early and late females were not inseminated. Inseminated females occurred during the 8 days, 5 to 12 May, of transit by most conspecifics and of males releasing sperm. Circumstantial evidence suggests that nutritional and social factors influenced migrant insemination. It is unknown to what extent, if any, such inseminations contribute to fertilizations and eventual offspring on the northern nesting territories after migration.
10.1525/cond.2013.120061|A post-flowering die-off of bamboo in an established bird-census plot afforded us an opportunity to investigate the response of bamboo-dwelling birds to a natural transformation of their habitat. In 1984 and 1985 SR and JT generated spot maps for an 80-ha plot in
10.2307/1369707| We compared the avifauna in two cities, Qubec (Canada) and Rennes (France), in order to define general responses of wildlife in an urban ecosystem. These cities have a similar urban structure that permits investigation along an urbanization gradient from downtown to rural residential areas. However, they are in opposite temperate climate and imbedded in a forested and an agricultural landscape, respectively. Plots ranging from 10 to 20 ha were surveyed in winter and spring by recording all birds seen or heard. Most plots could be located along a gradient according to proportions of vegetated open space. Both the Shannon-Wiener and Simpson indices of diversity indicated a pattern of increasing diversity from most to least urbanized areas in spring. Winter species diversity and richness was low in Qubec compared to Rennes, reflecting the much harsher winter conditions in Qubec. Breeding densities of House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) and European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) were quite similar in Qubec and Rennes, as were densities of European Blackbirds (Turdus merula) and its ecological equivalent in Qubec, the American Robin (Turdus migratorius). The type of surrounding landscape can not explain the variation of species numbers within the city. If we examine the urban environment as a new ecological system rather than a degraded environment, we can regroup birds in two major species groups: the omnivorous species adapted to the urban environment and its particular food resources such as garbage and the species that find, in the urban environment, resources which they normally exploit in their usual habitat. 
10.2307/1368236|The Coastal Plain Swamp Sparrow (Melospiza georgiana nigrescens) was originally described from a small number of specimens from the tidal marshes of the Nanticoke River in southeastern Maryland. Based on our quantitative analysis of a larger series of specimens, we found that Swamp Sparrows collected during the breeding season from the Chesapeake and Delaware bays (and tributaries) and near the mouth of the Hudson River are generally less rusty, have more black in the crown and nape, and have larger bills than other Swamp Sparrows. Contrary to earlier accounts, we found M. g. nigrescens to be migratory, arriving after the spring migration and departing before the fall migration of the inland subspecies through the tidal marshes. The location of the wintering grounds of M. g. nigrescens is unknown. We argue that the morphological and life history differences characterizing M. g. nigrescens reflect adaptation to tidal marshes. We base this hypothesis on the nature of the morphological differences, which are convergent with other tidal marsh breeding sparrows and other terrestrial vertebrates.
10.2307/1369944|We studied the effects of timing of spring snowmelt on nesting phenology, nest site selection, and clutch size of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) breeding at the Tutakoke River colony, Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. In late springs, brant nested later; however, time between peak arrival at Tutakoke and nest initiation (6 to 12 days) was similar in early and late springs. Nest initiation was more synchronized in late springs than early springs. Height of nests relative to spring meltwater levels was lower in late springs than early springs, indicating that the interval between snowmelt and nest initiation was shorter. Reduced availability of nest sites and increased nesting synchrony in late years may result in greater competition for available nest sites and reduced site fidelity. Clutch size was greater in late springs than in early springs. This increase in clutch size may result from greater accumulation of endogenous reserves on spring staging areas in late springs, or from demographic changes in the breeding population.
1370038| During the 1996, 1997, and 1998 breeding seasons, we located and monitored Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina) nests in a bottomland forest and examined the effects of edge proximity, edge type, and nest-site vegetation on nesting success. Successful Hooded Warbler nests were more concealed from below and were located in nest patches with a greater abundance of >0.5-m-tall switchcane (Arundinaria gigantea) stems than unsuccessful nests. Daily nest survival rates, clutch size, and number of fledglings per successful nest did not differ between nests near edges of selection-harvest openings within the bottomland and nests near edges of clearcuts adjacent to the bottomland. Daily survival rate, clutch size, and number of fledglings per successful nest did not differ among nests 0-50 m, 51-100 m, and >100 m from the nearest edge, and probability of nest survival was not related to proximity to either edge type. However, probability of parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) was higher near clearcut edges, and parasitism reduced clutch size and numbers of fledglings per successful nest. The combined effects of edge, especially edge created by the relatively small (0.5 ha) group-selection openings, on Hooded Warbler nesting success were minimal. However, our study was conducted in a primarily forested landscape, so cow-bird abundance or negative edge effects may have been low relative to agricultural landscapes in the South. /// Durante las pocas reproductivas de 1996, 1997 y 1998, ubicamos y monitoreamos nidos de Wilsonia citrina en un bosque de ribereo y evaluamos los efectos de la proximidad al borde, el tipo de borde y la vegetacin del sitio de anidacin sobre el xito reproductivo. Los nidos exitosos estuvieron ms escondidos desde abajo y se ubicaron en parches de bosque con una mayor abundancia de tallos de Arundinaria gigantea de ms de 0.5 m de alto que los nidos no exitosos. Las tasas de supervivencia diaria de los nidos, el tamao de la nidada y el nmero de polluelos emplumados por nido exitoso no difirieron entre nidos ubicados cerca de bordes de aperturas de cosecha selectiva dentro del valle ribereo y nidos cerca de bordes de sitios completamente talados adyacentes al valle. La tasa de supervivencia diaria, el tamao de la nidada y el nmero de polluelos emplumados por nido exitoso no difiri entre nidos ubicados a 0-50 m, 51-100 m y >100 m del borde ms cercano, y la probabilidad de supervivencia de los nidos no estuvo relacionada con la proximidad a ningn tipo de borde. Sin embargo, la probabilidad de parasitismo por Molothrus ater fue mayor cerca de bordes de tala rasa, y el parasitismo redujo el tamao de la nidada y el nmero de polluelos emplumados por nido exitoso. Los efectos combinados de borde sobre el xito de anidacin de W. citrina fueron mnimos, especialmente aquellos de los bordes creados por los claros relativamente pequeos (0.5 ha) formados tras extraer grupos de rboles seleccionados. Sin embargo, nuestro estudio fue realizado en un paisaje principalmente forestal, de modo que la abundancia de M. ater o los efectos de borde negativos pueden haber sido menores en relacin a paisajes agrcolas del sur. 
10.2307/1369533| We studied nest and roost habitat characteristics of Mexican Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) in the Tularosa Mountains, New Mexico. Owls selected both nesting and roosting sites in mixed-conifer forests that contained an oak (Quercus sp.) component more frequently than expected by chance. With the exception of one cliff site, no owls were observed using pion pine (Pinus edulis)/alligator juniper (Juniperus deppeana) woodlands for nesting or roosting. Owls selected nest and roost sites in forests characterized by mature (dbh > 45.5 cm) trees with high variation in tree heights and canopy closure >75%. Because we found little difference between nest microsites and their surrounding forest patches, the presence of a suitable nest structure may have determined nest-site selection within nest stands. Characteristics that best described nest sites in the Tularosa Mountains were also applicable to Mexican Spotted Owl nest sites in surrounding mountains. Seventy-five percent (n = 28) of nests were in Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), and 61% (n = 28) of nest structures were on clumps of limbs caused by dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium sp.) infections. Nest trees averaged 163.7 years of age (SD = 44.8) and 60.6 cm in diameter (SD = 22.4). 
10.1525/cond.2011.100132|In urban landscapes, predators are often more abundant or diverse than in rural areas, but few studies have examined how the identity of
10.1525/cond.2013.110165|Accurate analysis of trends in densities estimated from survey data depends on selection of a model that fits the data. When such analysis uses data recorded at different times in the same area but from different transects, then the target species density and spatial heterogeneity become an issue. It is possible, even in the absence of environmental change, that one set of transects may underestimate or overestimate the density entirely on the basis of location. The resulting risk is that the density estimated earlier may falsely indicate a decline or an increase when compared to the densities estimated later. We investigate this problem for trend analysis of two species of endangered Hawaiian birds at Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge, island of Hawaii. Assertions based on Bayesian regression, and accepted by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, purportedly indicate increases in the density of the endangered Hawaii Akepa (
10.1525/cond.2012.110043|Food quality and physiological capacities and limitations in recognizing and processing food are among the factors influencing the choices of desert birds in feeding. Seed-eating birds of the central Monte desert generally select grass seeds rather than forb seeds. We studied some of the mechanisms underlying seed-selection patterns in seed-eating birds of the Monte desert, analyzing nutrients and secondary compounds of the 15 most abundant seeds in the soil and their relationship with the diet of six species of seed-eating birds. Grass seeds contained more starch and less total phenols than did forb seeds and were free from alkaloids. The diet of the most graminivorous birds was correlated with seeds' starch concentration, while generalists' diet was correlated with seed abundance. To assess the plausible mechanisms underlying birds' selection of seed, we experimented with three species differing in the breadth of their diet: a generalist, the Rufous-collared Sparrow (
10.2307/1370222|The Monk Parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus) is a habitat generalist parrot from South America that has been introduced to and has expanded its range in Europe and North America. The aim of this study was to examine habitat selection in Monk Parakeets during the colonization of Barcelona, Spain, from 1992 to 1994. The Monk Parakeet showed a great selectivity in habitat choice, contrasting with the generalist behavior of the species in South America. The species inhabited urban parks with edible plants and palms (Phoenix spp.). Individuals showed a great specificity and preference for nesting in palms and palms appeared to be the main factor influencing the distribution and abundance of parakeets. Individuals showed a consistent preference for nesting in the tallest palms, probably as a way to reduce predation and human disturbance, although other characteristics also could affect the nest location. Implications of these findings for the biology and management of the species are discussed.
10.2307/1369145|Nesting density and synchrony by hosts may indirectly serve as a defense mechanism against brood parasites. Here we examine the relationships between spatial and temporal distribution of host nests and the probability of being parasitized. We use as host species the Black-billed Magpie (Pica pica), a species that is parasitized by the Great Spotted Cuckoo (Clamator glandarius) in southern Europe. We also examined the differences in parasitism rate in nearby plots that differ in magpie social organisation. Results show that increased proximity to other nests and specially laying synchrony both reduced the probability of being parasitized. Consequently, magpies breeding synchronously in dense plots may experience an indirect advantage against brood parasitism with respect to low density, low synchrony plots.
10.2307/1369801|We examined the communities of bacteria and fungi associated with the cloaca of adult House Sparrows (Passer domesticus) to investigate whether microbes could be transferred during copulation and thus represent a cost to mating. The levels of microbes in the cloacae of the male and female of eight breeding pairs were significantly correlated. The levels of microbes on the rim of the cloacal protuberance, which comes into direct contact with another bird during copulation, were similar to those inside the cloaca. These findings are consistent with microbes being transferred during copulation. Females could also receive non-cloacal pathogens during copulation, given that two of five males sacrificed had microbes within their testes, which could be incorporated into the ejaculate. Undeveloped eggs were screened for the presence of microbes, although only a low proportion (18%) was contaminated. It seems unlikely that microbial contamination is a general cause of egg failure in this species.
10.2307/1370441| I assessed the population status and habitat preferences of the Cozumel Curassow, Crax rubra griscomi, in the forests of Cozumel Island, Mexico, from October 1994 to June 1995. The estimated density was 0.9 curassows km
1370127| We briefly address the four main issues that Wiens et al. (2001) present in their commentary on Irons et al. (2000). In summary our response is: (1) We discussed before-after control-impact design assumptions at length in our paper. Data do not exist to resolve this issue and Wiens et al. fail to shed new light on it. (2) Contrary to Wiens et al.'s assertion, we discussed only statistically significant results. (3) Wiens et al. disagreed with our interpretations of a few select results. We stand by our interpretations. (4) Wiens et al. believe that the evidence we presented from other studies showing that Exxon Valdez oil still exists in Prince William Sound (PWS), and that birds are still ingesting it, is equivocal in demonstrating cause and effect. We agree, but arguments to the contrary are equally equivocal. Data from continued monitoring of marine birds in PWS support the conclusion that as of July 2000 one taxon is recovering from effects of the Exxon Valdez oil spill and eight taxa are not. /// Nos referimos brevemente a los cuatro puntos principales que Wiens et al. (2001) presentan en su comentario sobre Irons et al. (2001). En sntesis, nuestra respuesta es: (1) En nuestro artculo abordamos de manera extensa los supuestos del diseo de evaluaciones pre y post impacto. No existen datos que permitan resolver este tema y Wiens et al. fallan en aportar nuevas ideas. (2) Contrariamente a lo afirmado por Wiens et al., solamente discutimos los resultados que son estadsticamente significativos. (3) Wiens et al. discienten con nuestras interpretaciones sobre unos pocos resultados seleccionados. Nosotros sostenemos nuestras interpretaciones. (4) Wiens et al. opinan que la evidencia que nosotros presentamos de otros estudios, que muestran que el petrleo de Exxon Valdez todava existe en Prince William Sound (PWS) y que las aevs an estn ingirindolo, es ambigua en demostrar causa y efecto. Coincidimos con esto, pero los argumentos en contraposicin son igualmente ambiguos. Datos provenientes del monitoreo contnuo de aves marinas en PWS apoyan la conclusin que hasta julio del 2000 un taxn se est recuperando de los efectos del derrame de petrleo del Exxon Valdez y ocho taxa no lo estn. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090239|Numerous studies have confirmed that when selecting habitat birds can use social information acquired from observing other individuals, and many aspects of this social information can be capitalized upon to manage bird populations. The conservation implications of attraction to conspecifics are especially promising for management, and as research progresses it is important to consider how this behavior can be applied to conservation practice. The biological underpinnings of conspecific attraction and the repercussions of manipulating species' distributions with attraction methods are not well understood, but conservation decisions often cannot wait for scientific research. Here we synthesize the current research on manipulation of songbirds by conspecific-attraction methods and review our knowledge gaps critically. We reviewed the published literature on conspecific-attraction experiments in songbirds and found that of 24 studies in which they were attempted, 20 were successful in attracting birds. Although many experiments have been successful in attracting conspecifics with various cues, we outline issues to be considered before songbirds are manipulated by attraction methods, and we highlight areas of research necessary to enhance the understanding of conspecific attraction and its use in conservation.
10.2307/1368320|Breeding bird communities in Sonoran Desert habitats show strong correlations between total bird density and an index of vegetation volume. We have suggested that this empirical relationship is due to responses of breeding birds to critical resources, for which vegetation volume is an accurate estimator. In 1987, we conducted a study in Tucson, Arizona, to determine how this empirical relationship is affected by the presence of exotic species of plants and birds, and other factors associated with urbanization. We supported five predictions of our resource-based hypothesis by examining patterns of bird density and diversity in 34 neighborhoods. Densities of territorial native bird species, as well as native species richness and overall species diversity, were strongly correlated with the vegetation volume of native plant species, and uncorrelated with volume of exotic plant species. Densities of exotic and nonterritorial native birds correlated with exotic vegetation volume, the factor which best estimated the distribution of roosting and nesting sites preferred by these species. Vegetation factors explained more of the variance in breeding bird density than did measures of housing density. We interpret these results as confirming our hypothesis that densities of breeding birds correlate strongest with factors associated with critical resources. In addition, these patterns suggest that native bird populations may be better retained in areas of urban development by landscaping with native plants in such a way as to retain predevelopment distributions of vegetation volume.
40072361|Cavity-nesting communities can be viewed as interconnected webs that interact through the creation of and competition for cavities as nest sites. Using a web approach, we depicted the flow of cavity creation and use in the cavity-nesting bird community of a Florida longleaf pine (
10.1525/cond.2012.120084|Estimates of survival of nearcticneotropic migrants have broadened our understanding of life-history variation across taxa and latitudes. Despite the importance of assessing migrants survival through all phases of their life-cycle, data from their tropical winter ranges are few. In this study we used 14 years of data on captured birds to quantify the influence of mass on the annual survival of the Prothonotary Warbler (
10.2307/1369644|Nest predation studies frequently use eggs such as Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) to identify potential predators of Neotropical migrants' eggs, but such eggs may be too large or thick-shelled to identify the full complement of potential predators. We compared predation events and predators of Japanese Quail and smaller House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) eggs in paired, camera-monitored ground nests within edges and interiors of 40 mixed-hardwood forest stands in central Massachusetts. House Sparrow eggs were depredated significantly more than Japanese Quail eggs at both forest edges and interiors. Eleven potential predator species disturbed nests, six of which were confirmed as predators. Our use of House Sparrow eggs revealed predation by eastern chipmunks (Tamias striatus) and Black-capped Chickadee (Poecile atricapillus), but not by white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus), the most abundant small mammal species in all 40 stands. Neither predator species composition (as detected by camera) nor the frequency of nest predation differed between forest edge and interior. We conclude that the egg type used in artificial nest studies affects both the predation rates and the predator species detected.
40072468|Once established with reliability, the rules of flight feather replacement become an important component of comparative life-history studies. Here I illustrate the form of tables that should be used to describe the pattern and intensity of flight feather molt. Using a subset of original data summarizing primary, secondary, and rectrix molt in Western Kingbirds (
10.2307/3247714| We analyzed food habits, digestive organs, and nutrient reserves (lipid, protein, and mineral; the latter two corrected for structural size) of yearling and adult female Gadwalls (Anas strepera) collected in southwestern Manitoba. Gadwalls are herbivores outside the breeding season and we predicted, therefore, that they would be relatively inefficient at foraging for invertebrates. Thus, they provided a test of our hypothesis that if female ducks normally encountered protein deficiencies during egg production, they would store and then use protein reserves, but would not use lipid reserves at a greater rate than do other ducks. Predictably, we found that prelaying and laying females consumed a low proportion (50%) of animal matter relative to other Anas spp. Overall, lipid reserves declined by 0.78 g for every 1 g of lipid deposited in eggs, a rate similar to those reported for closely related species. Separate analyses suggested that yearlings began rapid follicle growth (RFG) with 15g less lipid reserve than did adults and used these reserves at a lower rate (-0.62 g vs. -0.94 g per gram lipid committed to eggs). Protein reserves declined by 0.16 g for every 1 g protein deposited in eggs, but neither mass nor rate of use of these reserves differed between yearlings and adults. In females collected late in the laying cycle (5 developing follicles), number of developing follicles was positively related to protein reserves (r = +0.52). Females in early RFG (1 or 2 developing follicles) had significantly more lipid (27 g) and protein (8 g) reserves than did non-breeders (no developing follicles), suggesting a threshold amount of these reserves is reached before initiation of RFG. Mineral reserves were unrelated to eggshell production. Female Gadwalls are exceptional among temperate-nesting ducks in use of protein reserves during egg production, yet are unexceptional in rate of use of lipid reserves. Thus, we conclude that data from them support the hypothesis that temperate-nesting ducks are generally lipid-, not protein-, limited. Finally, we hypothesize that among-female Variation in size of reserves, especially lipid, at the end of egg laying reflects different tactics for successfully completing incubation. 
10.2307/1367825|The avian community of a mature residential area was studied and compared with an undisturbed climax beech-maple forest. Urbanization was presumed to be responsible for decreasing species richness and diversity, increasing biomass and density, and favoring dominance by a few species. Foraging guilds shifted from forest insectivores that were canopy foliage gleaners or bark drillers to urban ground gleaners. Analyses of habitat structure showed that although urban foliage height diversity was like that of the forest, the urban area contained only one-third of the total percent vegetative cover. As compared to the forest, urban vegetative cover was: (1) significantly less in all but the middle layer; (2) replaced by man-made structures, ground cover and ornamental vegetation in the low and middle layers but dominated the high layer; and (3) highly discontinuous, existing as isolated strata. Differences in avian community organization between the forest and urban area are discussed in relation to urban habitat manipulation and population-suppressing factors.
10.2307/1368181|Mass loss of breeding Thick-billed Murres, Uria lomvia, was examined. Adult breeders lost a significant amount of mass from incubation to chick hatching (0.032 kg in 1988 and 0.063 kg in 1989). Regression of the timing of mass loss during incubation and brooding revealed that body mass was maintained constant during incubation, was lost rapidly soon after chick hatching, and remained constant at the lower level thereafter. Murres made more than twice as many foraging trips per day while feeding chicks than while incubating eggs, and therefore increased the amount of time spent in flight while brooding the chick. The stepwise mass loss is interpreted as adaptive in increasing flying efficiency as murres spend a greater amount of their time in flight during chick brooding. Murres may experience as much as a 25% of BMR per day energetic savings, or a reduction in the mechanical cost of flight of 9.0% to 9.5% by losing the observed 4.4% to 6.2% of incubation body mass. Murre mass loss during breeding was interpreted as adaptive in reducing the energetic cost of reproduction.
40072330|I compared selenium (Se) levels in blood, liver, egg, and diet samples from European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) nesting at Kesterson Reservoir, Merced County, California and the surrounding area. Concentrations were highest in adult and nestling blood (8.3 and 5.5 micrograms g, respectively), nestling liver (7.5 micrograms g), and eggs (4.6 micrograms g) from nest boxes in interior parts of Kesterson compared to those from the perimeter (adult and nestling blood = 4.0 and 1.4 micrograms g, respectively, nestling liver = 4.7 micrograms g, eggs = 2.8 micrograms g) and off-site (nestling blood = 3.8 micrograms g, liver = 4.3 micrograms g, egg = 2.7 micrograms g). No hatching failure or embryo effects were observed. Although I found strong positive relationships in Se levels among tissues and eggs, variability of dietary exposure and differences in depuration rates across tissues confounds prediction of Se concentration. Nevertheless, I found blood Se to be a good indicator of dietary exposure that can be sampled nondestructively. /// En este trabajo compar los niveles de Selenio (Se) en muestras de sangre, hgado, huevos y dietas de Sturnus vulgaris procedentes de la zona de nidificacin de la Represa Kesterson, Condado de Merced, California y reas circundantes. Las concentraciones de Se fueron mximas en la sangre de adultos y de las cras (8.3 y 5.5 micrograms g, respectivamente), en los hgados de las cras (7.5 micrograms g) y en los huevos (4.6 micrograms g) de cajas de nidificacin procedentes de las partes interiores de Kesterson, en comparacin con muestras de la zona perifrica (sangre de adultos y cras = 4.0 y 1.4 micrograms g, respectivamente, hgado de las cras = 4.7 micrograms g, huevos = 2.8 micrograms g) y de otros lugares (sangre de cras = 3.8 micrograms g, hgado = 4.3 micrograms g, huevos = 2.7 micrograms g). No se observ ninguna insuficiencia de incubacin. Aunque encontr relaciones positivas y significativas entre los niveles de Se en los tejidos y en los huevos, la variabilidad de la dieta y las diferencias entre tipos de depuracin a travs de los tejidos pudieron influenciar la capacidad de predecir las concentraciones de Se. Sin embargo, encontr que la concentracin de Se en la sangre es un buen indicador de la dieta, que puede muestrearse de una manera no destructiva.
10.2307/1369141|I examined the importance of food availability on when or whether to breed in cooperatively breeding Florida Scrub-Jays (Aphelocoma coerulescens). Two of the major factors known to influence the timing of reproduction are adequate food for offspring and sufficient available food for breeding females to produce a clutch. If the nutritive needs of a breeding female affect the timing of clutch initiation, food supplemented females should lay before controls. Supplemented female breeders initiated clutches earlier and produced larger clutches than unsupplemented birds. If food abundance declines as the breeding season progresses to the point where fewer young can be fed, clutch size should also decline. Florida Scrub-Jay females laid smaller clutches as the season progressed. Additionally, female breeders given supplemental food had higher levels of body lipids than controls prior to clutch initiation. The food supplementation protocol also allows the testing of the hypothesis that nonbreeder Florida Scrub-Jays forgo breeding because they are food limited. If food limitation were the only factor in the 'decision' by nonbreeders to forgo breeding, individuals provided with food would become breeders at a higher frequency than unsupplemented birds. However, equal frequencies of control and supplemented nonbreeders became breeders. I also compared body mass and body lipid of breeders and nonbreeders and found that breeders were heavier and had higher percentages of body lipids than nonbreeders. However, these differences probably do not cause them to be nonbreeders but rather are a result of their being nonbreeders.
10.2307/1369427|We analyzed patterns of abundance of Ruddy Quail-Doves (Geotrygon montana) based on 12 years of mist-net data (457 captures) from terra firme forest near Manaus in central Amazonian Brazil. Unlike most understory birds at the study site, G. montana varied greatly in abundance. Quail-doves disappeared for months and then reappeared, usually during the wet season. In some months they became one of the most frequently netted birds. Quail-doves avoided isolated forest fragments of one ha, although abundance did not differ among fragments of 10 ha, 100 ha, and continuous forest. Peak abundance varied among years, as did the timing of peak abundance. In general, the annual pattern of quail-dove abundance was correlated with the annual rainfall pattern. Considering all 12 years of data, however, quail-dove abundance during a given three-month period was not correlated with rainfall during that period, but with rainfall in the same period in the previous year. No quail-doves were recaptured more than a few weeks apart; thus individual birds did not return to the same site from year to year. Since quail-doves feed mainly on fallen fruit, these results suggest that they may range over wide areas to exploit regional differences in fruit production.
10.2307/1369462|Over 13,000 chicks and 1,800 adult European Shags (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) were banded at a colony in southeast Scotland between 1963 and 1987. Survival estimates for adults (birds three or more years old) were calculated from subsequent retrapping of these birds back at the colony and recoveries of birds found dead in the colony and elsewhere. The mean annual survival for the period 1967-1992 was estimated at 0.878 (95% C.I. = 0.859, 0.897). European Shags exhibit considerable annual variation in several breeding parameters, but there was no evidence that survival was lower in years when breeding was late or reproductive output reduced. Survival in years when the number of nests in the colony showed a dramatic decline was not significantly lower than normal years. An age-related effect was found indicating that survival declined significantly in birds older than 13 years.
10.2307/1368650|Data on removal of fecal sacs by Prothonotary Warblers (Protonotaria citrea) were used to test Weatherhead's (1984) hypothesis that birds carrying fecal sacs away from the nest will vary their departure directions more widely than will birds not carrying fecal sacs in order to prevent attraction of predators. We recorded the departure direction of adults and whether or not they carried fecal sacs, as well as the distance flown to drop a fecal sac. Fecal sacs dropped over land were not carried significantly farther than those dropped over water. Although the distribution of directions flown with fecal sacs was significantly different than that of directions flown without fecal sacs, Prothonotary Warblers did not vary their departure direction more when carrying fecal sacs than when not carrying sacs. In fact, the distribution of trips without fecal sacs was more varied than trips with fecal sacs. Our results contradict the results of Weatherhead (1984), possibly because of differences in data analysis, and do not support his hypothesis of fecal sac dispersal.
10.1525/cond.2012.110055|The Yellow Rail (
10.2307/1369068|I recorded the flocking propensity of birds within a tropical deciduous forest in western Mexico during the nonbreeding season, and determined the species composition of 57 mixed-species, canopy insectivore flocks. Each of 27 canopy insectivore species present on the study area was observed foraging in mixed-species flocks on at least half of the occasions that it was detected on bird surveys. The proportion of flocks within which a given species was detected could be predicted on the basis of its index of abundance, as determined from independently derived point count data. Therefore, flocks are not comprised of a special subset of canopy insectivores; rather, the composition of flocks appears to be a product of whichever species co-occur within the foraging range of one or more nuclear species. No two canopy insectivore species were negatively associated among flocks, but 40 of 210 possible pairs (19%) were significantly positively associated. Two long-distance migratory species (Nashville Warbler [Vermivora ruficapilla] and Bluegray Gnatcatcher [Polioptila caerulea]) shared features that characterize nuclear species, thereby constituting one of the first recorded instances where nonresident species play such a role. Five of the more common flocking species were equally likely to have a foraging neighbor nearby (<3 m away), but the identity of that neighbor differed significantly among the five species. Specifically, the identity of close neighbors of the two nuclear species was a random subset of the species available, while the close associates of three attendant species were a nonrandom subset of (mostly) other attendant species. The independent associations among flocks, which characterize most species, and the observation that nuclear species were not close neighbors more than expected for any of three attendant species suggests that foraging enhancement is not the principal benefit that attendant species derive from flocking.
10.2307/1367219|I tape recorded 1,210 vocalizations and observed the behavior of Common Ravens (Corvus corax) in southwestern Virginia from 1972 through 1976. Eighteen call types were identified and observed in conjunction with behavior at a communal roost, a landfill, and nest sites. I speculate that different call types were associated with excitement, agonistic interactions, aggression, alert, courtship, submission, and thwarting. Common Ravens in Virginia and hand-reared, captive ravens in Germany shared six call types, suggesting that the use of these call types may be innate. Although Common Ravens in Virginia, Alaska, and Germany gave many similar call types, locally learned call types may be present in each geographic area. Numbers of shared call types suggest that vocal behavior of ravens in Virginia resembles that of other North American ravens more than European ravens.
3247798| We present a capture-recapture modeling approach to the estimation of survival probability of dependent chicks when only the attending adult bird is marked. The model requires that the bird's nest is found prior to hatching and that the number of eggs that hatch are counted. Subsequent data are sightings of the marked adult and a count of chicks with the adult. The model allows for imperfect detection of chicks, but the number of chicks can never exceed the number of eggs in the nest (i.e., adults cannot adopt chicks). We use data from radio-tagged adult Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) and their unmarked chicks as an example. We present the model in terms of precocial bird species, but the method extends to many other taxa. /// Presentamos un enfoque de captura y recaptura para modelar la estimacin de la probabilidad de supervivencia de polluelos dependientes cuando slo el adulto que atiende a los polluelos esta marcado. El modelo requiere que el nido sea encontrado antes de la eclosin y que se cuenten el nmero de huevos que eclosionan. Los datos subsecuentes necesarios son los avistamientos del adulto marcado y el conteo de los polluelos que se encuentran con el adulto. El modelo permite la deteccin imperfecta de los polluelos, pero el nmero de polluelos nunca puede exceder el nmero de huevos en el nido (i.e., los adultos no pueden adoptar polluelos). Como ejemplo, utilizamos datos de adultos marcados con radio transmisores de Charadrius montanus y de sus polluelos no marcados. Presentamos el modelo en trminos de especies de aves precociales, pero el mtodo tambin se extiende a muchas otras especies. 
10.2307/1370010|Circadian metabolic responses to food deprivation were measured in Black-shouldered Kites (Elanus caeruleus) at thermoneutral and cold ambient temperatures. The basal metabolic rate (BMR) of the kites was 60-70% of that predicted by various allometric equations. They displayed marked circadian rhythms of BMR and body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>), but did not show any indication of metabolic depression or adaptive hypothermia in response to food deprivation. Instead, moderate reductions in metabolic rate and T<sub>b</sub> were observed, resulting in significant reductions in the daily energy expenditure. The conservative metabolic traits shown by the kites and their responses to food deprivation suggest tolerance of periodic, limited food supplies.
10.1525/cond.2012.120010|Invasive species pose the second greatest threat to biodiversity after habitat loss. Although invasive plant species negatively affect invaded ecosystems and diminish native biodiversity, they may provide food and other resources for some native birds. As monotypic stands of the invasive Chinese tallow tree (
10.2307/1370429|Studies of faunal remains in California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus) nests in the 1980s yielded bones and hair of a variety of small, medium-sized, and large mammals, and a near absence of avian and reptilian materials. A prevalence of small to medium-sized species may reflect ease of penetration of hides of such carrion and a relative abundance of ingestible bone from such species. Remains also included metal, plastic, and glass artifacts, likely mistaken for bone materials by condors. Size distributions of bone materials and percentage artifacts among hard remains suggest an overall absence of severe calcium-supply problems for condors.
10.1525/cond.2009.090006|In the tropics, passerines are expected to have survival rates higher than those in temperate zones, though their post-fledging survival has rarely been quantified. Furthermore, because of increased care by adults, cooperative breeding species should have even higher rates of juvenile survival, but few data are available on such species also. Over three breeding seasons we examined factors relating to post-fledging survival of the cooperatively breeding Puff-throated Bulbul (
10.2307/1368395|Plasma levels of testosterone (T) were measured by radioimmunoassay in Mountain White-crowned Sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys oriantha) males of known age and natural history during four consecutive reproductive seasons in the Sierra Nevada of California. Because nesting occurred comparatively early in all of these seasons and mean schedules varied by only 11 days, data were lumped to show the seasonal pattern of T. This pattern was unimodal with a maximum coinciding with the period of competition for territories and mates and with mate guarding. This was followed by a decrease toward a minimum that coincided with the period of parental care and, eventually, postnuptial molt. When these data were analyzed by stage of the reproductive season (rather than calendar date) and by age, two unexpected results emerged. First, T levels decreased significantly between the stages of nest building and laying. Female mates should have been fertilizable and soliciting copulations during both of these stages and intermale conflicts associated with mate guarding should have been frequent. In both situations, high T levels would be predicted by current paradigms. Second, T levels were considerably lower in yearling males than in older males prior to the laying stage. Reasons for this age-related difference are unknown but it was observed that yearling males tended in all comparison intervals to have lower body masses, shorter wings, and shorter testis and cloacal protuberance lengths than older males--they were smaller birds. Yearling males were also less successful in obtaining mates than older males but, once paired, reared just as many offspring.
10.2307/1368309|We studied spacing and social behavior of winter flocks of Black-capped Chickadees (Parus atricapillus) in food-supplemented and nonsupplemented (control) areas. Flocks of Black-capped Chickadees did not forage in exclusive areas, unlike most other populations of parids. In winters 1985-1986 and 1986-1987, each of 22 feeding stations in the food-supplemented area was visited by two to 10 flocks. Also, at least 50% (1985-1986) and 33% (1986-1987) of the control area was used by two to seven flocks over the winter. When flocks met, agonistic interactions between members of different flocks were less likely than between members of the same flock, suggesting that flocks were not defending areas. However, when agonistic interactions occurred between flocks, members of resident flocks dominated intruders. This "site-related dominance" may reflect the ability of flocks to space themselves when conditions favor use of exclusive areas.
10.2307/1370151|Analysis of variation in the main song and in other characters of Hylorchilus wrens, together with biogeographic considerations, support the recent suggestion that the genus consists of two species, Sumichrast's Wren (H. sumichrasti) and Nava's Wren (H. navai). The evidence also challenges the proposal that the Canyon Wren (Catherpes mexicanus) is this genus' closest relative. The song characteristics shared by the two separate species of Hylorchilus suggest that the song of their common ancestor included abrupt changes in pitch, pauses between syllables, and frequent use of syllables lasting more than 0.35 sec. These are exactly the opposite of what would be expected if the Canyon Wren were their closest relative (sister-group). It is suggested that the Canyon Wren-like characteristics of the song of one of the species are due to convergence. Thus the closest relative of Hylorchilus wrens remains to be found.
10.1525/cond.2013.110123|Sex-related and individually unique vocal features have been demonstrated for many avian and mammalian species. Vocal identity may depend on a calls function and vary within the repertoire of a single species. Vocal features of different call types are very rarely compared in one species. We studied the potential for vocal recognition of sex and individual identity in four types of calls of the White-naped Crane (
10.2307/1369183| Because eggs are composed of nutrients that are ultimately derived from the diet of adult females, the relative abundance of naturally-occurring stable isotopes of carbon and nitrogen in eggs should be related to those in their diet and this may form the basis of a method for tracing diets. Before such dietary reconstructions can be established, however, it is necessary to know how isotopic signatures change (or fractionate) from the diet during the synthesis of various egg components. In this study, stable-carbon and nitrogen isotopic fractionation factors between diet and whole yolk, lipid-removed yolk, albumen, and shell membranes of eggs of captively-raised Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica), Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus), Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus), and Gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolis) were established. In addition, carbon isotope fractionation patterns between diet and eggshell carbonate and yolk lipid were determined for quail, Mallards and falcons. On average, yolk, albumen and membranes were enriched in
1370044| Little is understood concerning the effects regional isolation and habitat loss have had upon the genetic structure of Mottled Ducks (Anas fulvigula), a nonmigratory waterfowl species with a limited distribution. Our objective was to identify nuclear DNA-based markers for Mottled Ducks and determine levels of subdivision among populations in Florida. We screened 13 microsatellite primer pairs and identified six microsatellite loci that were variable in Mottled Ducks. These markers revealed a low level of genetic differentiation and a high level of genetic exchange among four Mottled Duck subpopulations within Florida. Over all populations, single-locus expected heterozygosities over the six loci surveyed ranged from 0.13-0.85. There were no significant differences in gene frequencies among the populations examined, and the F<sub>st</sub> over 5 biparental loci was not different from zero. Our analysis of the Florida Mottled Duck population indicated high levels of heterozygosity and no evidence of genetic subdivision among breeding units. /// Se tiene escaso conocimiento acerca de los efectos del aislamiento regional y de la prdida de hbitat sobre la estructura gentica de poblaciones de Anas fulvigula, un ave acutica no migratoria de distribucin restringida. Nuestro objetivo fue identificar marcadores genticos de ADN para A. fulvigula y determinar los niveles de subdivisin entre poblaciones en Florida. Examinamos 13 pares de iniciadores (i.e., primers) para microsatlites e identificamos seis loci que fueron variables en A. fulvigula. Estos marcadores revelaron un bajo nivel de diferenciacin gentica y un alto grado de intercambio gentico entre cuatro subpoblaciones de A. fulvigula en Florida. Para todas las poblaciones, la heterocigocidad esperada en un locus vari entre 0.13-0.85 para los seis loci examinados. No hubo diferencias significativas en las frecuencias gnicas entre las subpoblaciones examinadas, y el valor de F<sub>st</sub> para los 5 loci biparentales no fue diferente de cero. Nuestros anlisis de las poblaciones de A. fulvigula de Florida indicaron altos niveles de heterocigocidad y no mostraron evidencia de subdivisin gentica entre las unidades reproductivas. 
3247760| We describe Pseudoseisuropsis cuelloi, a new fossil furnariid from the upper Pleistocene of Uruguay, and investigate its phylogenetic relationships. Results of a cladistic analysis using 52 osteological characters from 29 taxa, including the extinct Pseudoseisuropsis nehuen, were consistent with placing the new species in the genus Pseudoseisuropsis. We conclude that the skull of Pseudoseisuropsis was prokinetic, although the shape of the nostrils was like a typical schizorhinal and rhynchokinetic furnariid. This observation reveals the inadequacy of the traditional categories of nasal types in characterizing the diversity of morphologies found in skulls of the Furnariidae. Finally, the analysis did not support a close relationship between Pseudoseisuropsis and Pseudoseisura, as previously thought, but suggests that Pseudoseisuropsis either belongs to the Dendrocolaptinae, or represents a more basal lineage within the Furnariidae. /// En el presente estudio se describe a Pseudoseisuropsis cuelloi, una nueva especie fsil de Furnariidae del Pleistoceno superior de Uruguay, y se investigan sus relaciones filogenticas. El resultado de un anlisis cladstico con 52 caracteres osteolgicos y 29 taxa, incluyendo el ejemplar tipo de Pseudoseisuropsis nehuen es consistente con la inclusin de la nueva especie en el gnero Pseudoseisuropsis. Se concluye que el movimiento craneal de Pseudoseisuropsis era proquintico, a pesar de que la forma de las aberturas nasales es similar al de un tpico furnrido esquizorrino/rincoquintico. Esta aparente contradiccin pone en evidencia que las categoras tradicionales de tipos nasales son poco adecuadas para caracterizar la diversidad morfolgica del crneo en los Furnariidae. Por ltimo, el anlisis filogentico revela que Pseudoseisuropsis no esta estrechamente emparentado con Pseudoseisura, como fuera propuesto originalmente, sino que sugiere su inclusin en Dendrocolaptinae o en un linaje ms basal dentro de la familia Furnariidae. 
10.2307/1370420|The western Indian Ocean holds five subspecies of the pantropical Audubon's Shearwater (Puffinus lherminieri), but none was known to breed in the Mozambique Channel. Here, I describe a newly discovered population of Audubon's Shearwaters on Europa Island, southern Mozambique Channel. Comparison of geographic variation of morphometric characters showed that the birds of this population belong to the P. l. bailloni subspecies, previously thought to be endemic to the Mascarenes Islands. They were distinct from the three subspecies of the Comoro, Aldabra, and Seychelles group, suggesting that few successful exchanges of individuals occur between north of the Mozambique Channel and Europa Island. This biogeographic pattern is similar to that of two phylogenetically independent pelagic species from Europa Island. This suggests that a common cause related to geographic isolation and oceanic conditions in the Mozambique Channel may explain the apparent isolation of these three seabird populations from Europa Island.
10.2307/1370313| We tested the hypotheses that mineral sites in western Oregon are used by Band-tailed Pigeons (Columba fasciata) to supplement dietary calcium and sodium. We compared mineral composition of sites used by Band-tailed Pigeons, adjacent unused sites, and three major food items during the nesting season. Sixty-five percent of used mineral sites were low in calcium (<200 ppm), whereas mean concentrations in food items were high (1,960-2,290 ppm). All but one used mineral site were high in sodium (678 ppm), whereas mean concentrations in food items were low (20-254 ppm). Food items were high in mean concentrations of potassium (12,470-26,980 ppm) and potassium:sodium ratios (138-656). Used and adjacent, unused, estuary mineral sites were similar in calcium and sodium concentrations. We hypothesize that because of insufficient sodium intake and inefficient sodium retention, Band-tailed Pigeons seek a sodium source to supplement their diet during the nesting season. Use of mineral sites probably depends upon sodium concentration, but also vegetation structure, development, human activity, and congregation use by Band-tailed Pigeons. Used mineral sites appear to be scarce in western Oregon, and are seemingly essential resources for this species. Eighty-six percent of known currently-used mineral sites are privately owned and subject to possible alteration from land-use practices. Mineral sites used by Band-tailed Pigeons should be included in the overall management scheme for maintaining stable breeding populations of this species. 
4122496| Coyotes (Canis latrans) are lethally controlled throughout the range of Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) and it has been suggested that such control may benefit sage-grouse. However, the perceived benefits of control are based on the direct effects of coyotes on sage-grouse and largely ignore potential indirect interactions. Here, we summarize some of the evidence for direct effects in a simplified food web including coyotes and sage-grouse. There is very little evidence to suggest that coyotes have much of a direct negative effect on sage-grouse, but there is considerable evidence supporting direct interactions that would lead to positive indirect effects between coyotes and sage-grouse. The three likely forms of positive indirect effects arise because coyotes reduce the potential negative effects resulting from mesopredator release and apparent and exploitative competition. Mesopredator release would adversely affect sage-grouse if a decrease in coyotes allowed an increase in foxes (especially Vulpes vulpes), badgers (Taxidea taxus), and Common Ravens (Corvus corax), mesopredators that prey on sage-grouse eggs and young. A decrease in coyotes is likely to allow jackrabbits (Lepus spp.) to increase, which would cause sage-grouse to suffer from apparent competition if Golden Eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), which are perhaps the most important predator of adult sage-grouse, then increase in response to the increase in jackrabbits. This increase in jackrabbits may also depress the availability of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) and forbs, leading to an increase in exploitative competition with sage-grouse. For these reasons, we argue that intense and extended lethal coyote control is likely detrimental to sage-grouse conservation. /// Los coyotes (Canis latrans) son eliminados como medio de control en todo el rango de distribucin de Centrocercus urophasianus y se ha sugerido que este control puede beneficiar a C. urophasianus. Sin embargo, los beneficios observados de este control se basan en los efectos directos de C. latrans en C. urophasianus sin tener en cuenta las potenciales interacciones indirectas. En este estudio, resumimos parte de la evidencia de los efectos directos en una cadena alimenticia simplificada que incluye a C. latrans y a C. urophasianus. La evidencia para afirmar que C. latrans tiene un importante efecto negativo directo sobre C. urophasianus es escasa, pero existe una considerable evidencia que da soporte a las interacciones directas, que llevaran a efectos positivos indirectos entre C. latrans y C. urophasianus. Las tres probables formas de efectos indirectos positivos se producen porque C. latrans reduce los potenciales efectos negativos que surgen de la liberacin de los mesodepredadores y de la competencia aparente y por explotacin. La liberacin de los mesodepredadores afectara negativamente a C. urophasianus si la disminucin de C. latrans llevara a un incremento de Vulpes vulpes, Taxidea taxus y Corvus corax, que depredan los huevos y los jvenes de C. urophasianus. Una disminucin en el nmero de C. latrans probablemente dara lugar a un incremento de Lepus spp., lo cual causara que C. urophasianus experimentara competencia aparente si Aquila chrysaetos, que posiblemente es el depredador ms importante de los adultos de C. urophasianus, incrementara en respuesta al aumento de Lepus spp. Este incremento de Lepus spp. tambin podra reducir la disponibilidad de Artemisia spp. y herbceas, dando lugar a un aumento de la competencia por explotacin con C. urophasianus. Por estas razones, argumentamos que un control letal de C. latrans intenso y prolongado es probablemente perjudicial para la conservacin de C. urophasianus. 
1370573| We investigated gonad sizes, nesting patterns, and plasma hormone concentrations of seven Neotropical passerine species in a lowland tropical rainforest (Panama) at 9N latitude over at least one annual cycle. All species had entirely regressed gonads for several months of the year (October to January), coinciding with the end of heavy rainfall. Gonadal recrudescence started in the dry season between January and March. Nesting began earlier (March) for open-habitat species than for forest-interior species (April), and lasted until August or December, respectively. Species differed widely in maximal relative testes sizes and reproductive hormone concentrations, but both measures were lower than in most temperate-zone species. Although we cannot provide a phylogenetically controlled comparison, polygynous and group-living species appeared to have larger testes than monogamous species, possibly indicating sperm competition. Testosterone concentrations were highest in polygynous species, intermediate in socially monogamous species, and lowest in a group-living species, indicating that testosterone is more influenced by social systems than by gonad cycles. Tropical birds may generally maintain low testosterone concentrations and relatively small gonads to decrease overall energy expenditure compared to temperate-zone relatives. /// Investigamos los tamaos de las gnadas, los patrones de nidificacin y las concentraciones hormonales plasmticas de siete especies de aves paserinas Neotropicales en una selva lluviosa tropical de tierras bajas en Panam (9N) durante por lo menos un ciclo anual. Todas las especies tenan gnadas enteramente retradas por varios meses del ao (octubre a enero), coincidiendo con el fin del periodo de precipitacin lluviosa pesada. El crecimiento gonadal comenz en la estacin seca, entre enero y marzo. La nidificacin comenz primero en las especies de hbitat abierto (marzo) que en las especies de interior de bosque (abril) y dur hasta agosto y diciembre, respectivamente. Las especies difirieron extensamente en los tamaos relativos mximos de las gnadas y en las concentraciones de la hormona reproductiva, aunque ambas medidas fueron menores que para la mayora de las especies de la zona templada. Aunque no podemos proveer una comparacin controlada por filogenia, las especies poliginias y las especies que viven en grupo tenan testculos ms grandes que las especies mongamas, lo que posiblemente podra estar indicando competencia espermtica. Las concentraciones de testosterona fueron mayores en las especies poliginias, intermedias en las socialmente mongamas, y menores en las especies que viven en grupo, indicando que la testosterona estara ms influenciada por el sistema social que por los ciclos de las gnadas. Las aves tropicales podran generalmente mantener niveles bajos de testosterona y tamaos relativamente pequeos de gnadas con el fin de disminuir los gastos energticos totales en comparacin a las especies emparentadas de las zonas templadas. 
10.2307/1368118|I collected female Common Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) during rapid follicle growth (RFG), egg-laying, incubation, and nestling periods to see whether they used stored nutrient reserves to supplement dietary intake during these stages. Body fat did not change systematically during RFG and laying. Body protein increased during RFG and decreased during laying. Female crows appeared to store fat during incubation and to use it during the brood-rearing period. Based on gizzard contents, female crows ate mostly wheat and small rodents throughout breeding.
10.2307/1370328|We document a shift in roosting behavior of Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus) from winter and late spring to summer. During summer, Great Horned Owls roosted near the ground or exposed on open ground, whereas they chose concealed perches at mid-canopy level for the rest of the year as typical for forest owls. This shift of roosting behavior coincided with the emergence of ornithophilic black flies, which transmit avian malaria (Leucocytozoon spp.). The shift in roosting behavior was consistent with measurements of parasite exposure at different habitat positions. Black fly activity was highest at mid-canopy level, and almost no black flies were active on open ground. Ground-roosting was not caused by poorly developed flying capability of juveniles, because solitarily-roosting adult owls showed the same behavioral shift in a second year of study. Black flies and avian malaria are widely distributed, and the effect of the vertical distribution of these parasites in forests on roosting, nesting, and foraging of sylvatic birds deserves further study.
10.1525/cond.2012.100196|Because of the high, albeit seasonal, availability of carcasses, the Mara-Serengeti ecosystem, Kenya, has a high diversity of scavengers, leading to considerable competition between species. From patterns of occurrence of vultures at 163 carcasses over an 8-year period in the Masai Mara National Reserve, we were able to identify some mechanisms that may reduce competition. Species are associated on the basis of similar dietary needs and beak morphology, and they are highly interdependent, showing little evidence of disassociation. Social vultures (genus
10.2307/1367367|Behavior, habitat use, and foraging of the Whistling Heron (Syrigma sibilatrix) and Capped Heron (Pilherodius pileatus) were studied in Venezuela and Argentina. Both foraged primarily alone or in pairs, but Whistling Herons also fed and roosted socially. Whistling Herons nested solitarily, maintained post-fledging associations with young, and appeared to defend feeding territories. They foraged in patches of short grass in wet savannas, especially where water was a few centimeters deep. Capped Herons also foraged in wet savanna, but the edges of streams or ponds seemed to be their preferred habitat. Whistling Herons fed by standing and slow walking, usually in an upright posture. At times they waved their heads in an exaggerated manner. Capped Herons crouched for long periods and walked slowly. Although the basic foraging tactics of the two species were similar, differences support the suggestion that the Capped Heron is a bird of forested streams and ponds while the Whistling Heron is a bird of open savanna. In many ways, the Whistling Heron resembles paleotropical grassland herons.
10.2307/1368353|Tissue samples from 121 birds representing two subspecies of the White-crowned Sparrow, Zonotrichia leucophrys, and their zone of intergradation, were obtained from a linear series of eight localities along the Pacific coast of California and Oregon. The region sampled included all of the range of Z. l. nuttalli, and a portion of the range of Z. l. pugetensis. Allozyme variation at 46 presumptive gene loci was examined by means of starch gel electrophoresis; 15 of these loci (32.6%) were polymorphic. Allelic frequencies of these loci are reported here; they are used in an analysis of Wright's F-statistics and to estimate gene flow and indices of genetic distance. The population genetic structure of at least one deme within the zone of intergradation differs from that of the two intergrading subspecies, but the subspecies themselves apparently are not genetically differentiated from one another. This conclusion is supported by several lines of evidence: allelic frequencies of the subspecies are not significantly different, as determined by estimates of genetic distance; the association between interlocality F<sub>st</sub> values and geographic distances is not significant, as measured by the Mantel test; and a reconstruction of the evolutionary relationships based on the genetic distances of Nei, Rogers, and Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards groups localities representing the two subspecies together, but separate from localities within the zone of intergradation. All lines of evidence suggest high levels of gene flow between the subspecies.
10.2307/1370451|We examined brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) on a prairie-nesting population of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) from 1984 to 1997 and the extent to which parasitism affected host reproductive success. During this 14-year period, 2-32% of redwing nests were parasitized per year. Two measures of cowbird parasitism, the proportion of nests parasitized and the number of cowbird eggs laid per year, significantly increased over time. Increases in these estimates of the intensity of parasitism were independent of annual changes in nesting density of Red-winged Blackbirds. Clutch size was reduced in parasitized nests, most likely as a result of host egg removal by cowbirds, but hatching success was similar between parasitized and unparasitized nests. Red-winged Blackbirds abandoned more than one-third of all parasitized nests. We estimated the cost of abandonment in terms of increased failure rate and decreased fledgling production of re-nesting attempts. When we excluded abandoned nests from the analysis, there was no difference in the probability of success between parasitized and unparasitized nests. Nestlings from parasitized nests were similar in mass and tarsus length to nestlings from unparasitized nests, but parasitized nests produced fewer redwing fledglings per successful nest. The success of unparasitized nests was negatively related to the intensity of cowbird parasitism, suggesting that cowbirds are predators as well as brood parasites of redwing clutches.
10.2307/1369179|Birds lay eggs at different rates and at different times of the day. Some species also show skipped days during the laying sequence, "laying gaps," but patterns of egg laying have not been well studied. We compared timing of laying during the day, laying gaps, and laying rates (number of eggs/day) for White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) and Willow Ptarmigan (L. lagopus). Both species tended to lay eggs near midday, but Willow Ptarmigan had fewer laying gaps and faster laying rates than White-tailed Ptarmigan. The variation in laying rates among individuals was greater for White-tailed Ptarmigan which had a bimodal distribution of inter-egg intervals, long (x = 44 hr) and short (x = 26 hr). Laying gaps were not associated with spring body condition but severe spring storms seemed to cause some laying delays. The patterns and frequency of gaps observed within and between species may be the result of nutrient constraints on egg formation in conjunction with physiological mechanisms which control a time-window for egg laying.
10.2307/1370300|We compared post "Exxon Valdez" oil-spill densities of marine birds in Prince William Sound from 1989-1991, 1993, 1996, and 1998 to pre-spill densities from 1984-1985. Post-spill densities of several species of marine birds were lower than expected in the oiled area of Prince William Sound when compared to densities in the unoiled area. These negative effects continued through 1998 for five taxa: cormorants, goldeneyes, mergansers, Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba), and murres. Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) and Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) exhibited negative effects in 1990 and 1991. Loons showed a weak negative effect in 1993. Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) showed relative decreases in 1989, 1996, and 1998 which may have been caused by shifts in foraging distribution rather than declines in populations. Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) showed positive effects in most post-spill years. Murrelets and terns showed relative increases in 1993, 1996, and 1998. Generally, taxa that dive for their food were negatively affected, whereas taxa that feed at the surface were not. Effects for some taxa were dependent upon the spatial scale at which they were analyzed. Movements of birds and the mosaic pattern of oiling reduced our ability to detect oil-spill effects, therefore our results may be conservative. Several marine bird species were negatively affected at the population level and have not recovered to pre-spill levels nine years after the oil spill. The reason for lack of recovery may be related to persistent oil remaining in the environment and reduced forage fish abundance.
40072400|Once one of the most common species seen at bird feeding stations across much of North America in winter, the Evening Grosbeak (
10.2307/1369915|In their recent commentary, Patten and Erickson (1996) raised two issues: (1) the specific distinctness of the Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) from the Little Tern (S. albifrons) and (2) the subspecific name(s) to be applied to breeding populations of Least Terns in coastal western Mexico. Here I briefly summarize evidence supporting the separation of Least and Little Terns and make a case for considering all populations of Least Terns on the west coast of the Americas as one subspecies (browni) until and unless field studies indicate otherwise.
1369833| We investigated the influence of military training on the abundance and behavior of raptors at a military training area in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area in Idaho during the breeding seasons of 1991-1994. Raptor counts on military training ranges did not differ when we compared all training days to all non-training days. However, during one period of intensive military training in one breeding season, raptor counts were lower during training than on non-training days. During training, Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus) did not alter their behavior on training days. In years when prey numbers were low, falcons, hawks, and eagles perched and flew at low levels less often and flew at higher altitudes more often during training than they did when training did not occur. We observed fewer prey capture attempts on ranges on days with training than on days without training. Specific types of military training activity affected counts of raptors on ranges. The lowest raptor counts were associated with firing of artillery, small arms, and main turret guns or machine guns on tanks. Raptor counts associated with tank preparation (i.e., assembling and loading ammunition), driving, laser training, and convoy traffic were similar to non-training periods. /// Durante las pocas reproductivas de 1991 a 1994, investigamos la influencia del entrenamiento militar en la abundancia y el comportamiento de aves de rapia en un rea de entrenamiento en el rea nacional de la conservacin de aves de presa del Snake River, Idaho. Los conteos de aves de rapia en reas militares no difirieron entre das de entrenamiento y das sin entrenamiento. Sin embargo, en una poca reproductiva los conteos de rapaces fueron menores en das de entrenamiento que en das sin entrenamiento. Circus cyaneus no alter su comportamiento en das de entrenamiento. Durante el entrenamiento en aos cuando los nmeros de presas eran bajos, los halcones, gavilanes y guilas se posaron y volaron en los niveles bajos con menor frecuencia y volaron ms alto ms a menudo que cuando no haba entrenamiento. Observamos menos intentos de captura de presas en das que hubo entrenamiento que en das sin entrenamiento. Las actividades especficas de entrenamiento militar afectaron los conteos de aves de rapia. Los conteos ms bajos estuvieron asociados con disparos de artillera, de pequeas armas y de las armas principales de la torreta o de las ametralladoras en tanques. Las conteos de rapaces asociados con la preparacin de los tanques (ensamblaje y carga de municin), conduccin, entrenamiento del laser, y trfico del convoy fueron similares a los de perodos sin entrenamiento. 
10.2307/1367893|Survival characteristics of 25 broods of Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) were determined on a study area in the Missouri Coteau of south-central North Dakota in 1976-1977. Radio-equipped Mallard hens fledged at least one duckling in 7 of 16 (44%) broods produced in 1976, 5 of 9 (55%) in 1977, and 12 of 25 (48%) for both years combined. Of the 13 broods in which all young were lost, 11 (85%) were lost within the first two weeks after hatching. All losses of entire broods occurred in wetlands; few ducklings and no entire broods were lost during overland travel. Predation by mink (Mustela vison) was apparently the principal cause of duckling mortality.
10.2307/1368440|Avian use of saltcedar (Tamarix chinensis) along the middle Pecos River was compared with similarly collected data along the lower Colorado River and Rio Grande. Use of saltcedar ranked high among all bird groups in all seasons on the middle Pecos River. In contrast, many species do not occur in saltcedar on the lower Colorado River, while few species winter in saltcedar on the lower Rio Grande. Occurrence of granivores and insectivores during winter in saltcedar on the Pecos River may be explained by seed-producing shrubs and annuals within or adjacent to these habitats. Most breeding birds on the Pecos River are summer visitors. These breeding species, though present, do not occur in saltcedar on the Colorado River despite abundant food resources and occur in intermediate abundances on the Rio Grande. Densities of several summer-visiting insectivores have declined markedly on the Colorado River since the proliferation of saltcedar, whereas they have remained relatively stable in other river valleys to the east. Biogeographical considerations, specifically elevational (climatic) gradients, are suggested reasons for this phenomenon.
10.2307/1368950|From measurements of metabolizable energy (ME) intake (doubly labeled water technique), prey capture rates, and time spent foraging, we calculated both foraging efficiency (FE) and rate of energy gained while foraging (E
10.2307/1368560|The effects of local resource abundance on the reproductive characteristics of American Coots (Fulica americana) were studied in eastern Washington. I examined the influences both of naturally occurring differences among habitats and of experimentally manipulated food resources. Females from lakes with high food abundance laid significantly heavier eggs than did females from lakes with low productivity. Similarly, eggs from experimentally enriched territories were significantly heavier than those from control territories. Clutch size did not vary systematically with resource abundance. These results suggest that when food is more abundant coots increased the quality, rather than quantity, of young produced. Nevertheless, a comparative analysis of the relationship between egg mass and body mass for 40 species of rails showed that the American Coot lays lighter eggs than would be predicted on the basis of body mass alone.
10.2307/1367135|Seventy-four eggs from seven colonies of Arctic Terns (Sterna paradisaea) in the Quark and the Bothnian Bay of Finland were collected in 1981 shortly after laying and immediately before hatching. Shell thickness, weight, thickness index, and egg weight index were determined and compared with the same characteristics of 200 eggs collected between 1874 and 1935. We found no significant differences in these measures of egg thickness between recent and museum shells from the same geographical areas. Shells of museum specimens from different geographical regions did show significant variations. The weight and the wing and tarsus length of the embryos correlated negatively and significantly with all measured characteristics of the shell except its thickness when the shell membranes were present. During the incubation period, the shell's thickness (without membranes) decreased 8%; thickness index and weight decreased 4%; and the shell's thickness with shell membranes present decreased 1-2%. In this paper, we discuss reasons for these changes.
10.1525/cond.2009.090029|Recent studies reveal that hummingbirds' songs are more variable and complex than previously realized. The Wedge-tailed Sabrewing (
10.2307/1368161|I studied the foraging ecology and social behavior of the Bridled White-eye (Zosterops conspicillatus) on Saipan and Tinian, Mariana Islands. On Saipan, birds foraged in flocks of 10-40, and dominance relationships existed within flocks. The white-eye appeared socially subordinate to the other insectivorous passerines. Bridled White-eyes foraged principally on the outer crown of trees and shrubs, where they perched on relatively slender branches to glean invertebrates from leaf surfaces. They foraged similarly in two habitats, but they used a wider range of perch sizes in limestone forest than in tangantangan (Leucaena leucocephala) thickets. Hence, absolute vegetation height was of little importance to this species. Bridled White-eyes were versatile in their foraging, which included every microenvironment from the ground to treetops. They used gleaning, probing, hovering, and sallying to feed on invertebrates, nectar, fruits, and seeds.
10.2307/1370310| Least Flycatcher Empidonax minimus pairs form dense clusters of territories on the breeding grounds. We describe pair formation and copulation behavior (both within- and extra-pair) in Least Flycatcher clusters. Pair formation involved a complex behavioral sequence of trill vocalizations and visual display. Within-pair copulations were five times more likely to achieve cloacal contact than were extra-pair copulations. Least Flycatchers exhibited an overall within-pair mating effort of 2.0  0.5 events pair<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup> compared to an extra-pair mating effort of 1.8  0.3 events pair<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>. Within- and extra-pair mating behavior by focal birds were distinctly different with respect to rate, conspicuousness, duration, aggression intensity, and pre-copulatory display. The rate of territory incursions for extra-pair copulations was high. We discuss copulation behavior in the context of male and female mating tactics, and highlight the disparity in our knowledge of mating behavior in other members of this genus. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110024|Understanding selection of breeding habitat is critical to conserving and restoring habitats for the Greater Sage-Grouse (
1369815| The Black-whiskered Vireo (Vireo altiloquus) breeds from coastal southern Florida in the United States through the islands of the West Indies, and thus consists of several populations separated by large regions of uninhabitable space. I examined genetic variation within and among six migratory populations in the Florida Keys, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico, using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers and analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA). Calculations of variance components revealed that over 90% of the variance was among individuals; a significant portion also occurred among regional groups (Florida, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico). Variance between subpopulations within the regional groups was not significantly different from zero. This contrasts with the closely related Red-eyed Vireo (V. olivaceus) of continental North America, in which analyses of three widely separate geographic localities revealed that over 99% of the genetic variance was among individuals, with no significant variance detectable among localities. The greatest differences in V. altiloquus were detected between the Florida Keys populations and the populations from Jamaica and Puerto Rico; the latter two showed no significant differentiation. Estimates of gene flow from the AMOVA analog to Wright's F-statistics suggest that there is enough gene flow among regions to prevent differentiation by genetic drift. Although not strongly isolated, the Florida population of V. altiloquus is sufficiently differentiated to suggest reduced genetic exchange with the populations on Puerto Rico and Jamaica. /// Vireo altiloquus se reproduce desde la costa del sur de la Florida en los Estados Unidos hasta las islas de las Antillas, y por lo tanto presenta varias poblaciones separadas por extensas regiones de espacio no habitable. Examin la variacin gentica dentro y entre seis poblaciones migratorias en los Cayos de la Florida, en Jamaica y en Puerto Rico, usando marcadores polimrficos de ADN amplificados al azar (RAPD) y anlisis de varianza molecular (AMOVA). Los clculos de los componentes de la varianza indicaron que ms del 90% de la varianza se present entre individuos; una porcin significativa tambin estuvo presente entre los grupos regionales (Florida, Jamaica y Puerto Rico). La varianza entre subpoblaciones dentro de grupos regionales no fue significativamente diferente de cero. Esto contrasta con los resultados para V. olivaceus de Norteamrica continental, donde los anlisis de tres localidades alejadas revelaron que ms del 99% de la varianza gentica se registr entre individuos, sin varianza significativa detectable entre localidades. Las mayores diferencias en V. altiloquus fueron detectadas entre las poblaciones de los Cayos de la Florida y las poblaciones de Jamaica y Puerto Rico; las ltimas dos no mostraron diferencias significativas. Las estimaciones de flujo gnico a partir del AMOVA, anlogo al estadstico F de Wright, sugieren que hay suficiente flujo gnico entre las regiones para evitar diferenciacin por deriva gnica. Aunque no est muy aislada, la poblacion de V. altiloquus de la Florida se diferencia lo suficiente como para sugerir un intercambio gnico reducido con las poblaciones de Puerto Rico y Jamaica. 
10.2307/1368569|We compared density estimates of birds using the spot-mapping and transect methods in grazed and ungrazed habitats in foothill woodlands of the western Sierra Nevada, California. As judged by the percentage error of transect estimates in relation to those from spot mapping, the exponential polynomial estimator from program TRANSECT (Laake et al. 1979) consistently gave better estimates of density than either the Fourier series or exponential power series estimators. Distance estimates grouped into bands of some specified width consistently performed better than ungrouped data, although no single band width was best in all cases. Although several alternatives tested in this study gave density estimates with errors only about half those by a variety of previous methods, even the best alternatives had mean errors of about 25% and maximum errors ranging from 37% to 109%. Errors involved both over- and underestimation of density in relation to spot-mapping estimates, even for the same species on the same site in different months or by different observers. The two habitats affected TRANSECT estimates of density differently, and observers differed significantly in the accuracy of their estimates. Because of these problems, transect methods could lead to misinterpretation of real abundance patterns by masking differences between years or sites, even to the extent of suggesting that a species was more abundant in a given year or site than another when the reverse was true. As sample sizes increased, both overestimates and underestimates of density by transect methods converged on density estimates by spot mapping, suggesting a real correspondence in density estimation by these two methods. Empirical assessment of the sample size needed to use program TRANSECT indicated that a data set should include at least 100 records per species--far more than the number normally used to estimate densities by transects.
4123208| In waterfowl, reproduction is physiologically demanding and females are exposed to varying risks of mortality at different periods of the breeding cycle. Moreover, differences among females may influence survival within breeding periods. We captured and fitted female Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) with radio-transmitters before nest initiation during two breeding seasons to estimate survival and investigate sources of variation in survival. We partitioned the breeding season into three periods (preincubation, incubation, postnesting) according to breeding status of individual females, and used information-theoretic methods to compare models in which daily survival varied among periods, between successful and failed nesting females, and with parameters describing individual heterogeneity. Our analysis suggested that daily survival was best modeled as a function of breeding period, differences between successful and failed nesting females during postnesting, and early incubation body condition of successful females during post-nesting. Model-averaged daily survival was 0.9988 (95% CL: 0.9963-0.9996) during preincubation and 1.0 during incubation. Postnesting daily survival was 1.0 for failed nesting females and 0.9948 (0.9773-0.9988) for successful females, suggesting a trade-off between current reproduction and survival. Female age, body condition at capture, nest initiation date, and brood size generally were not useful for explaining variation in survival. Only early incubation body condition was important for modeling survival of successful females during postnesting; however, weight of evidence was limited and the effect on survival was weak. Mortality was greatest for females during preincubation and for females that nested successfully. Results support the hypothesis that brood care is costly for females. /// En los anseriformes, la reproduction es fisiolgicamente demandante y las hembras estn expuestas a diversos riesgos de mortalidad durante diferentes periodos del ciclo reproductivo. Adems, diferencias entre las hembras pueden influenciar la supervivencia dentro de los periodos reproductivos. Capturamos hembras de Aix sponsa y les colocamos radio transmisores antes de que comenzaran a nidificar. Esto se realiz durante dos temporadas reproductivas para estimar la supervivencia e investigar fuentes de variacin en la supervivencia. Dividimos la temporada reproductiva en tres periodos (preincubacin, incubacin y post-nidificacin) de acuerdo al estado reproductivo de las hembras y usamos mtodos de informacin tericos para comparar modelos en los cuales la supervivencia diaria vari entre los periodos, entre las hembras que nidificaron de modo exitoso y no exitoso, y con parmetros que describen la heterogeneidad individual. Nuestro anlisis sugiri que la supervivencia diaria se modelo mejor en funcin al periodo reproductivo, a las diferencias entre hembras reproductivas exitosas y no exitosas durante el periodo post-nidificacin y a la condicin fsica de las hembras en la parte inicial de la incubacin en la etapa post-nidificacin. El promedio de supervivencia diaria en el modelo fue de 0.9988 (95% LC: 0.9963-0.9996) para el periodo de preincubacin y de 1.0 durante la incubacin. La supervivencia diaria para el periodo post-nidificacin fue de 1.0 para las hembras no exitosas y de 0.9948 (0.9773-0.9988) para hembras exitosas, lo cual sugiere una compensacin entre la reproduccin actual y la supervivencia. En general, la edad de la hembra, la condicin fisica al tiempo de la captura, el tiempo en que se inicio el nido y el tamao de la nidada no fueron tiles para explicar la variacin en la supervivencia. nicamente la condicin fsica en el periodo temprano de incubacin fue importante para modelar la supervivencia de hembras exitosas durante la etapa post-nidificacin. Sin embargo, el valor de la evidencia fue limitado y el efecto sobre la supervivencia fue poco convincente. La mortalidad ms alta fue para las hembras en el periodo de preincubacin y para aquellas que anidaron exitosamente. Los resultados apoyan la hiptesis de que el cuidado de la nidada es costoso para las hembras. 
10.2307/1368486|I studied colony attendance in a marked sample of Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) in 1979 and 1980 on Southeast Farallon Island, California. These observations were supplemented with sightings of known-age birds in 1977, 1981, and 1982. In 1979 and 1980 I compared the attendance of males and females from the time of colony occupation through the incubation and chick-rearing periods. Guillemots returned in early March in both years, but occupied territories earlier in 1979 than in 1980. Older, experienced birds arrived on land before young, nonbreeders. Males arrived earlier than females each year and spent more time on their territory each morning before and after egg laying. In 1979, colony attendance was higher for both sexes, egg laying began earlier, larger clutches were laid, and young chicks were fed at a higher rate. I suggest that the annual differences in attendance and egg laying dates may have been due to the greater availability of food in 1979, as measured by higher chick-feeding rates. Sex differences in attendance probably result from the increased energetic requirements associated with egg formation in females.
1370588| Changes in digestive enzyme activity along the intestine may be related to changes in substrate concentration in the intestine. We examined the distribution of digestive enzymes along the intestine in two species of carnivorous passerine birds from the genus Cinclodes. Both species lacked sucrase activity, suggesting that these species are unable to feed on sucrose-rich diets. Distribution of maltase and aminopeptidase-N activity differed from that found in other passerines, including omnivorous species, but resembled those found in herbivorous and frugivorous birds. We hypothesize that the type of prey items that Cinclodes consume may explain the pattern of maltase and aminopeptidase-N expression. /// Los cambios en los niveles de actividad enzimtica digestiva a lo largo del intestino de aves pueden estar relacionados con cambios en la concentracin de substratos en el intestino. En este estudio examinamos la distribucin de enzimas digestivas a lo largo del intestino en dos especies de aves paseriformes del gnero Cinclodes. Ambas especies carecen de actividad de sacarasa lo que sugiere que estas especies son incapaces de consumir dietas ricas en sacarosa. La distribucin de la actividad de maltasa y aminopeptidasa-N difiere de la documentada para otros paseriformes, incluyendo especies omnvoras, y es similar a la encontrada en aves herbvoras y frugvoras. Se sugiere que el tipo de presas consumidas por Cinclodes explicara el patrn de expresin de maltasa y aminopeptidasa-N. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120107|Stable-isotope ratios of carbon (
10.2307/1368202| We studied the duration of the pre-laying period, female feeding activity, male vigilance, and the potential for parent-offspring conflicts in high-Arctic nesting Greater Snow Geese (Chen caerulescens atlantica). The pre-laying period is unusually long for a goose species nesting at high latitudes (73 N). Geese arrived at Bylot Island around 27 May but the peak initiation of egg-laying was around 12-14 June. During pre-laying, paired females fed for 75% and were alert for 6% of the 24-hr day, whereas males fed for 44% and were alert for 33% of the day. In one year that laying geese were observed, females fed less than during pre-laying and time spent at the nest increased. Time budget was not related to time of day or number of days before egg-laying. Although male vigilance apparently enabled females to devote more time to feeding, male alert behavior was poorly synchronized with female feeding. Pair copulations were recorded frequently (0.23/hr) and 2 extra-pair copulations were observed. Males were involved more often than females in aggressive interactions (2.55 vs. 0.36 aggressions bird<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup> and often attacked neighboring pairs. The proportion of pairs with yearlings was low (6.3%) and parents frequently attacked their young (1.53 bird<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>). However, presence of yearlings did not influence time budget of pairs. The long pre-laying delay and the intense feeding activity of females suggest that, in addition to energy reserves accumulated during the spring migration, food intake on the nesting ground may also be an important source of energy for laying Greater Snow Geese. 
1370638| Grouping and associated behavior are poorly documented for the Great Slaty Woodpecker (Mulleripicus pulverulentus) of Southeast Asia. This woodpecker is thought to breed in pairs, although only three active nests have been superficially described. I present observations of group and breeding behavior of the Great Slaty Woodpecker from five regions in western Indonesia. Thirty-six independent units of Great Slaty Woodpeckers involved predominantly groups (81%), followed by pairs (17%), and one single bird. Mean size of groups larger than 2 was 4.2  1.2 (range 3-6) individuals. Group size did not vary as a function of time of year, logging disturbance, or the number of sympatric woodpecker species. Individuals attended the same groups on consecutive days. Groups comprised several males and females. Roost holes, spaced >200 m apart, were occupied by single birds. In 65% of foraging groups, two to five members simultaneously exploited a single food source such as a stingless bee, termite, or ant nest; frequency of food-source sharing peaked at groups of four individuals. Within foraging groups, females spent more time climbing and searching; males did more hammering, pecking, and flaking. Grouping in this species is perhaps induced by cooperatively searching for and exploiting infrequent but highly profitable food sources. Two nests of Great Slaty Woodpeckers were found, one of which was attended by two males and one female. In 18% of occasions, Great Slaty Woodpecker groups associated temporarily with White-bellied Woodpeckers (Dryocopus javensis). In mixed flocks the two species exploited different food sources within 50 m from each other. /// El gregarismo est documentado escasamente para la especie Mulleripicus pulverulentus del sureste asitico. Se cree que la especie cra en parejas, aunque slo se han descrito superficialmente tres nidos activos. Se presentan observaciones de comportamiento gregario y de reproduccin de este pcido procedentes de cinco regiones en el oeste de Indonesia. Treinta y seis unidades independientes de M. pulverulentus incluyeron predominantemente grupos (81%), seguidos de parejas (17%), y un ave solitaria. El tamao medio de grupos mayores que 2 fue 4.2  1.2 individuos (rango 3-6). El tamao de los grupos no vari como funcin de la temporada del ao, la perturbacin por tala o el nmero de especies simptricas de carpinteros. Los individuos integraron los mismos grupos en das consecutivos. Los grupos constaron de machos y hembras. Los agujeros dormidero, separados por ms de 200 m, estuvieron ocupados por una sola ave. El 65% de los grupos de entre dos y cinco miembros explotaron simultneamente una nica fuente de alimento como nidos de abejas sin aguijn, termitas u hormigas; la frecuencia con que las fuentes de alimento fueron compartidas fue mxima en grupos de cuatro individuos. En los grupos de forrajeo, las hembras pasaron ms tiempo trepando y buscando mientras que los machos pasaron ms tiempo martilleando, picoteando y quitando cortezas. El gregarismo en esta especie quizs es inducido por la bsqueda cooperativa y la explotacin de fuentes de alimento infrecuentes pero muy provechosas. Se encontraron dos nidos de M. pulverulentus, uno de los cuales sali adelante con la cooperacin de dos machos y una hembra. El 18% de las veces los grupos de M. pulverulentus se asociaron temporalmente con la especie Dryocopus javensis. En grupos mixtos las dos especies explotaron fuentes de alimento diferentes en un radio de 50 m de distancia. 
10.2307/1367077|Visits by Long-tailed Hermit hummingbirds (Phaethornis superciliosus) to flowers of different inflorescence color morphs in a natural population of Heliconia irrasa were monitored indirectly using fluorescent powder. The two color morphs (red and yellow) were indistinguishable with respect to amount and rate of reward (nectar) offered to pollinators. The birds did not appear to prefer flowers of either bract color morph. Fluorescent powder was dispersed to flowers of the two color morphs in the frequencies predicted by the relative abundance of the morphs in the study area. This result adds support from field data to earlier experimental work that has challenged the notion that hummingbirds innately prefer red flowers.
4151073| Given the difficulty of following free-living, dispersing juvenile songbirds, relatively little is known about when, where, how, and from whom these young birds learn their songs. To explore these issues, we studied the Chipping Sparrow (Spizella passerina), males of which have a single, simple song, but populations of which may contain 20-30 different songs. In our western Massachusetts study sites, we color-banded 324 nestling and 32 fledgling sparrows. Twelve of these banded males returned to our study areas, dispersing a few hundred meters to 1.8 km away from their natal territories The song of each yearling closely matched only one of his immediate neighbors on the breeding territory, revealing that a yearling sparrow precisely imitates one of his close neighbors after dispersal. Evidence from this field study and a previous laboratory study show that a young male is able to learn songs either during his hatching year or the following spring, perhaps depending on his chances of song exposure or social interaction with territorial neighbors. /// Dada la dificultad de seguir a juveniles de aves canoras que se dispersan en ambientes naturales, se sabe muy poco acerca de cundo, dnde cmo y de quin estas aves juveniles aprenden sus cantos. Para explorar estas preguntas, estudiamos machos de Spizella passerina, los cuales tienen un canto nico y simple, pero que provienen de poblaciones que pueden tener 20 a 30 cantos diferentes. En nuestros sitios de estudio en el oeste de Massachusetts anillamos 324 polluelos y 32 volantones con bandas de colores. Doce de estos machos anillados volvieron a nuestros sitios de estudio, dispersndose desde sus territorios natales entre unos cuantos cientos de metros a 1.8 km. El canto de cada juvenil de un ao slo coincidi con el canto de uno de sus vecinos ms cercanos en el territorio de cra, lo cual revela que los juveniles de un ao imitan de manera precisa el canto de uno de sus vecinos ms cercanos luego de dispersarse. Evidencias de este estudio de campo y otros estudios previos de laboratorio muestran que un macho joven es capaz de aprender cantos tanto durante el ao que eclosion como durante la primavera siguiente, quizs dependiendo de sus probabilidades de exposicin al canto o de interacciones sociales con sus vecinos territoriales. 
10.2307/1367374|Field experiments were conducted on a population of nesting Tree Swallows (Iridoprocne bicolor) to assess whether the evolved function of territoriality is to prevent breeding by conspecifics (superterritoriality). The size and orientation of territories were estimated by the response of birds to a conspecific model. There was no difference in territory size between birds that had the potential to defend surplus boxes and those that did not. Similarly, territorial defense was not oriented more toward the vicinity of surplus boxes than in other directions. These results indicate that territorial behavior has not evolved due to a relative increase in fitness that may be gained by preventing conspecifics from breeding.
10.2307/1369184|Previous studies on the diet of Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) in Greenland were based primarily on prey remains, an indirect technique that may produce biased results. Earlier estimates of prey biomass are too general and speculative to be conclusive. No other study provided data on the age of prey species or showed that Rock Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) can be an important component in the diet of Greenland peregrines. We used direct observations of prey deliveries and collection of prey remains to assess prey (in terms of frequency of occurrence and biomass) of breeding Peregrine Falcons in West Greenland. We also determined prey selection in relation to local prey availability. During 492 hr of observation at two eyries we found that four small passerines--Lapland Longspur (Calcarius lapponicus), Northern Wheatear (Oenanthe oenanthe), Common Redpoll (Carduelis flammea), and Snow Bunting (Plectrophenax nivalis)--contributed over 80% of the prey items delivered, with the longspur being the principal prey species in terms of frequency of occurrence and biomass. However, ptarmigan contributed almost as much biomass as longspurs at one eyrie. Fledglings of all these bird species provided the majority of items and biomass at both eyries. Analysis of 676 prey items from prey remains at 159 eyries showed similar frequencies and rankings for the prey species comprising the majority of the diet of Peregrine Falcons as determined by prey deliveries. Lapland Longspur was taken in proportion to its availability near two eyries; ptarmigan and Snow Buntings were taken more frequently than expected. Local differences in prey use (especially ptarmigan) were found.
10.1525/cond.2012.120007|A growing body of evidence indicates that vocalizations of predators and perceived risk of predation can significantly alter avian nesting behavior and reproductive performance. However, it is currently unclear whether birds acoustically discriminate among different types of predators and adjust their short-term behavioral responses accordingly. We investigated this issue via playback experiments in which nests of the Hooded Warbler (
10.2307/1367387|The spacing behavior of Buff-breasted Sandpipers was studied on their wintering grounds in coastal Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, from September 1973 to December 1974. Up to 2,000 Buff-breasted Sandpipers used the study area of 11,000 ha during austral spring of these years. Many defended non-breeding territories while feeding in the short-grass uplands even though they roosted communally in large monospecific flocks. Twentynine territories averaged 0.04 ha. The sandpipers moved between their feeding and roosting sites in flocks. They also flew daily during mid-afternoon to a nearby stream for water, often accompanying local flocks of American Golden Plovers. Defense of feeding sites continued throughout the day but it became less consistent during late afternoon. The apearance of a predator caused the sandpipers to flock, abandoning their territories. Shortly after the predator disappeared they returned to their feeding areas and resumed defense. Their responses to predators suggested that: (a) Buff-breasted Sandpipers benefitted from flocking because it decreased their predation risk; (b) the benefits for flocking related either to reducing the probability that they would be attacked or to reducing the attack success rate, not to increasing the likelihood of detecting a predator; (c) the benefits for territorial defense probably did not include reducing predation risk; and (d) sandpipers could simultaneously defend territories yet maintain the option of coalescing into a tight flock.
10.2307/1368232| We used the doubly labeled water (DLW) technique to measure the field metabolic rate (FMR) of adult (n = 4) and nestling (n = 30) Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus). Resting metabolic rate (RMR) of adults and nestlings was calculated from O
10.1525/cond.2011.110042|Divergent selection can lead to substantial morphological and behavioral differences despite slight differentiation in neutral genetic variation. We examined the evolutionary history of two closely related waterfowl, the Cinnamon Teal (
1370633| We assessed age- and sex-specific distribution patterns of Surf Scoters (Melanitta perspicillata) wintering in southern coastal British Columbia, Canada, and evaluated potential biases associated with the use of male age ratios as an index of their recruitment. For surveys conducted during 2000 through 2002, annual variations in male age ratios were evident, with estimates ranging from 0.07  0.02 to 0.13  0.03 (SE; first-year males:total males). Flock composition patterns indicated first-year males did not distribute independently, but tended to associate with other first-year males. With respect to habitat, male age-class proportions did not vary among shoreline substrate types, but higher proportions of first-year males were found in sites with low exposure to wind and waves (<50 km fetch). To determine the efficacy of male age ratios for indexing recruitment, we used a power analysis, which incorporated overdispersion in age-class segregation and determined the sample sizes required for precise estimates of the proportion of first-year male Surf Scoters. Samples of approximately 600-1000 total males were required to obtain 95% confidence limits within 5% of the estimated mean, with sampling accuracy leveling off at about 2% when 6000 or more males were aged. Recruitment among waterfowl species is typically modeled using the ratio of female recruits to breeding-age females. Based on the sex and male age-ratio estimates obtained in this study, we calculated a female age ratio of 0.23 (first-year females:adult females). /// Estimamos los patrones de distribucin especficos de edad y sexo de Melanitta perspicillata invernando en la zona costera sur de la Columbia Britnica, Canad, y evaluamos los sesgos potenciales asociados con el uso de cocientes de edad de machos como un ndice de su reclutamiento. Durante los muestreos realizados entre el 2000 y el 2002 las variaciones anuales en el cociente de edad de los machos fueron evidentes, con estimaciones que variaron entre 0.07  0.02 (EE) y 0.13  0.03 (machos del primer ao: total de machos). Los patrones de composicin de las bandadas indicaron que los machos del primer ao no se distribuyeron independientemente, sino que tendieron a asociarse con otros machos del primer ao. Con relacin al hbitat, las proporciones de clases de edad de los machos no variaron entre los tipos de substrato de la lnea de costa, pero se encontraron mayores proporciones de machos del primer ao en sitios con baja exposicin al viento y a las olas (sitios de mar abierto <50 km de ancho). Para determinar la eficacia de los cocientes de edad de los machos como ndice de reclutamiento, usamos un anlisis de poder, el cual incorpor sobre-dispersin en la segregacin de las clases de edad y determin los tamaos de muestreo necesarios para estimaciones precisas de la proporcin de machos del primer ao de M. perspicillata. Muestras totales de aproximadamente 600-1000 machos fueron necesarias para obtener lmites de confianza del 95% dentro del 5% de la media estimada, con la exactitud de muestreo nivelndose cerca del 2% luego de estimarse la edad de 6000 o ms machos. El reclutamiento entre las especies de Anseriformes es modelado tpicamente usando el cociente entre nuevas hembras y hembras en edad reproductiva. Basados en las estimaciones de cocientes de sexo y edad de los machos obtenidas en este estudio, calculamos un cociente de edad de las hembras de 0.23 (hembras del primer ao: hembras adultas). 
10.2307/1368849|Intraspecific brood parasitism occurs frequently among Wood Duck (Aix sponsa) populations nesting in artificial structures. To assess the effects of such parasitism on population ecology, we analyzed 12 years of Wood Duck nesting records (1976-1987) from a study site in northeastern Illinois. Hatchability of eggs (ducklings produced/total eggs laid) was inversely correlated with population density, with the frequency of parasitism, and with the number of eggs laid per nest. The hatchability of all eggs laid in nests that had been parasitized (16-44 eggs) was 57.5% vs. 67.3% for eggs laid in "normal" nests (7-15 eggs). The negative consequences of parasitism were due mainly to nest abandonment, damaged eggs, and eggs laid after the start of incubation, and occurred despite the consistent availability of suitable unused boxes. The frequency of brood parasitism was strongly affected by box placement. During 1976-1987, parasitism occurred in 49.5% of boxes erected singly in highly visible locations, in 49.5% of boxes erected in highly visible groups, but in only 29.8% of boxes that had been erected singly in visually occluded habitat. Mean clutch sizes for the visible-isolated (15.7 eggs) and visible-clumped (16.3 eggs) boxes were significantly higher (F = 4.49, P = 0.012) than for the well-hidden boxes (12.4 eggs). Hatchability in successful well-hidden nests was 82.0% vs. ca. 74.0% in successful visible boxes. The data suggest that reduced parasitism and increased hatchability occur when artificial nesting structures are placed in habitats and at densities resembling the natural circumstances in which Wood Ducks evolved. These results have implications not only for the study and management of A. sponsa populations, but also for the placement of nest boxes in behavioral and ecological studies of other cavity-nesting birds.
10.1525/cond.2010.090244|Birds may colonize new habitats because of introduction, changing environmental conditions, and/or altered social or environmental cues. However, aside from introduced (often invasive) species, little is known about the consequences of such colonizations for members of existing communities. If the realized niche is influenced by the presence or absence of heterospecific competitors, then addition of a species to a novel habitat or location could result in extirpation or avoidance if members of the existing community are subdominant. Alternatively, if for some species heterospecific cues are the primary means for collecting information about a site's quality, heterospecific attraction could occur. To test these predictions, we experimentally induced free-living Black-throated Blue Warblers (
1370734| We compared species composition, insect parasitism, and mass of acorns stored in 12 granaries with acorns present within the territories of Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) at Hastings Reservation in central coastal California. All three species of oaks present in the study area produced excellent crops the year of the study, and thus woodpeckers could readily have filled their granaries with acorns of any one of the species. Nonetheless, species composition of stored acorns was highly variable among territories and at least some acorns of all three species were stored in all granaries. There was no consistent difference in insect parasitism between stored and unstored acorns. Relative to estimated availability, birds preferred to store Quercus lobata acorns and avoided Q. douglasii acorns, but showed no preference for Q. agrifolia acorns even though they are energetically more valuable than the other two species. Stored acorns of two of the three oak species also weighed less, and were thus presumably smaller, than the average unstored acorn. On average, Acorn Woodpeckers did not maximize the energetic value of their stores and could have increased the energy stored in their granaries by 14-108% had they chosen larger acorns or more energetically rich Q. agrifolia acorns. Storing may be better understood in a more traditional optimal foraging context in which the costs of harvesting and caching, together with the energetic value of stored acorns, are considered together. /// Comparamos la composicin de especies, parasitismo por insectos y masa de bellotas almacenadas en 12 graneros presentes adentro de territorios de Melanerpes formicivorus, en la Reserva Hastings en la costa central de California. Las tres especies de roble presentes en el rea de estudio produjeron excelentes cosechas durante el ao de estudio, por lo que los pjaros carpinteros podran haber llenado fcilmente sus graneros con bellotas de cualquiera de las especies. A pesar de esto, la composicin de especies de las bellotas almacenadas fue altamente variable entre territorios y en todos los graneros fueron almacenadas al menos algunas bellotas de cada una de las tres especies. No hubo una diferencia consistente en el parasitismo por insectos entre bellotas almacenadas y no almacenadas. En relacin a la disponibilidad estimada, las aves prefirieron almacenar bellotas de Quercus lobata y evitaron las bellotas de Q. douglasii, pero no mostraron preferencia por bellotas de Q. agrifolia, aunque stas son energticamente ms valiosas que las bellotas de las otras dos especies. Las bellotas almacenadas de dos de las tres especies de roble fueron menos pesadas, y presumiblemente fueron ms pequeas, que la bellota promedio no almacenada. En promedio, M. formicivorus no maximiz el valor energtico de sus provisiones, aunque podra haber incrementado la energa almacenada en sus graneros en un 14-108% si hubiera elegido bellotas ms grandes y bellotas ms energticas de Q. agrifolia. La accin de almacenar puede ser mejor entendida en un contexto de forrajeo ptimo ms tradicional, en el que los costos de cosechar y ocultar, junto al valor energtico de las bellotas almacenadas, son considerados juntos. 
4151068| We examined home-range characteristics of seven Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus) and four Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) at the Savannah River Site, South Carolina. Birds were captured at their primary roost and tracked via aerial telemetry from 11 February 2002 through 29 January 2003. Mean annual home-range sizes (95 fixed kernel) for Black and Turkey Vultures were 12 399  5199 ha [SE] and 34 053  8567 ha, respectively. Black Vultures concentrated their movements around the primary roost, whereas Turkey Vultures demonstrated less site fidelity. Home-range sizes and time spent soaring for both species were much greater than reported for vultures residing in an agricultural landscape. We suggest that food resources at the heavily forested Savannah River Site were fewer and less predictable than in agricultural landscapes, requiring larger home ranges and increased time spent foraging. /// Examinamos las caractersticas de los rangos de hogar de siete Coragyps atratus y cuatro Cathartes aura en Savannah River, Carolina del Sur. Las ayes fueron capturadas en sus sitios de descanso principales y fueron rastreadas mediante telemetra area desde el 11 de febrero de 2002 hasta el 29 de enero de 2003. Los tamafos medios de rango de hogar (kernel fijo del 95%) fueron de 12 399  5199 ha [EEl para C. atratus y de 34 053  8567 ha para C. aura. Cathartes atratus concentr sus movimientos alrededor de sus sitios de descanso principales, mientras que C. aura demostr menor fidelidad al sitio. Para las dos especies, los tamaflos del rango de hogar y el tiempo que permanecieron planeando fueron mucho mayores que los reportados para buitres que habitan paisajes agrcolas. Sugerimos que en Savannah River, un sitio con alta cobertura forestal, los recursos alimenticioseran ms escasos y menos predecibles que en paisajes agrcolas, requiriendo rangos de hogar mayores y un incremento en el tiempo de forrajeo. 
10.2307/1370228| We investigated whether the Silvereye, Zosterops lateralis (10-12 g) uses heterothermy to reduce energy expenditure when confronted with adverse environmental conditions. We also determined the thermal physiology and energetics of this species. Z. lateralis entered nocturnal hypothermia over a range of ambient temperatures (T
3247787|Adult movement and natal dispersal data demonstrate that Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) are able to travel over long distances, suggesting a large functional population. However, these data are unable to determine whether these movements contribute to gene flow among adjacent breeding areas. We used eight microsatellite DNA loci and mitochondrial DNA control-region sequence data to assess population structure of Northern Goshawks breeding in Utah. Goshawks had moderate levels of genetic variation at microsatellite loci (observed heterozygosity = 50%), similar to levels found in other medium-sized, highly mobile birds. Overall estimates of interpopulation variance in microsatellite alleles (F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.011) and mtDNA haplotypes (Phi<sub>ST</sub> = 0.126) were low and not significantly different from zero. Pairwise population comparisons using microsatellite markers revealed no differentiation among sampled sites, indicating that the functional population extends beyond Utah. However, pairwise population analyses of mtDNA uncovered a single case of differentiation between goshawks inhabiting Ashley National Forest, in northeastern Utah, and Dixie National Forest, in southwestern Utah. Low levels of population structuring observed in mtDNA between the two forests may be due to the smaller effective population size sampled by mtDNA, a cline of haplotypes across the West, or the presence of a contact zone between A. g. atricapillus and goshawks of southern Arizona and the Mexican Plateau. /// Datos sobre el movimiento de los adultos de Accipter gentilis y la dispersio = 0.011n natal demuestran que A. gentilis es capaz de viajar largas distancias, lo que sugiere una gran poblacion funcional. Sin embargo, dichos estudios no son capaces de determinar si estos movimientos contribuyen al flujo genetico entre las areas de reproduccion. En este estudio se utilizaron ocho loci de microsatelites de ADN y secuencias de la region control del ADN mitocondrial para estimar la estructura poblacional de la unidad reproductiva de A. gentilis en Utah. Este halcon presento niveles intermedios de variacion genetica en loci de microsatelites (heterocigosidad observada = 50%), similares a los niveles encontrados en otras aves de tamano medio con gran dispersion. La estimacion total inter-poblacional de la varianza en alelos de microsatelites (F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.011) y haplotipos de ADNmt (Phi<sub>ST</sub> = 0.126) resultaron ser bajas y no significativamente diferentes de cero. Las comparaciones entre pares de poblaciones utilizando marcadores de microsatelites no mostraron diferencias entre los sitios muestreados, indicando que la poblacion funcional se extiende mas alla de Utah. Sin embargo, el analisis con ADNmt entre pares de poblaciones mostro en un solo caso una diferenciacion entre la poblacion de A. gentilis que habita en el Bosque Nacional Ashley al noreste de Utah y la poblacion de A. gentilis del Bosque Nacional Dixie, al sureste de Utah. Los niveles bajos de estructura poblacional observados con ADNmt entre los dos bosques pueden deberse a un bajo tamano poblacional efectivo muestreado con ADNmt, a una disminucion de haplotipos hacia el oeste o a la presencia de una zona de contacto entre A. g. atricapillus y Accipiter gentilis del sureste de Arizona y la meseta Mexicana.
40306185|The distribution of the Florida Burrowing Owl (
1370109| We analyzed the occurrence of molt and brood patches in resident passerines from four localities in south-central Brazil. The annual patterns of molt and reproductive activity were very similar among the sites. Brood patches first appeared in August, but were most common between October and January, with a peak in November, early in the rainy season. Molt started in October but was most widespread from the middle to the end of the rainy season, between December and April with a peak in February. Timing of the appearance of brood patches was not related to trophic guild (insectivores, frugivores, omnivores). Molt of flight feathers started at the end of the reproductive period, which varied slightly among trophic guilds. Molt and brood patch overlap occurred in little more than 4% of individual birds, or in less than 2% considering just those molting flight feathers. This overlap occurred mostly between November and February. Regional environmental factors, instead of local factors, seem to be responsible for the annual breeding and molt patterns of the considered species. /// Este estudo analisa a ocorrncia de muda de penas e reproduo em Passeriformes residentes em quatro localidades na regio centro-sul do Brasil. A atividade reprodutiva foi inferida a partir da presena de placas de incubao ativas. Os padres anuais de muda e reproduo apresentaram-se bastante similares entre as regies estudadas. Placas de incubao comearam a ser detectadas em agosto, sendo mais comuns entre outubro e janeiro, com um pico em novembro, no incio da estao chuvosa. O principal perodo de mudas comeou em outubro, sendo mais intensas nos dois teros finais da estao chuvosa, entre dezembro e abril, com um pico em fevereiro. Os padres de ocorrncia de reproduo e mudas apresentaram pequenas diferenas entre diferentes guildas alimentares, e, de modo geral, o incio do perodo de mudas esteve relacionado ao fim do perodo reprodutivo. Sobreposio entre mudas e placas de incubao foi detectada em pouco mais de 4% do total de indivduos analisados, ou em menos de 2%, quando apenas indivduos mudando penas de vo foram considerados. Esta sobreposio ocorreu principalmente entre novembro e fevereiro. Os padres ambientais regionais, mais que os locais, parecem influenciar os ciclos anuais das espcies analisadas. 
10.2307/1368806|The Poo-uli (Melamprosops phaeosoma), discovered on Maui in 1973, was originally believed to be a Hawaiian honeycreeper (Drepanidinae). Doubts as to the validity of this classification prompted an investigation of the defining characters of the subfamily and the possible position of M. phaeosoma within it. The Drepanidinae are monophyletic with a suite of certain and possible synapomorphies that cluster the group, but Melamprosops lacks all of these characters. Hawaiian honeycreepers have a distinctive odor which the Poo-uli lacks. Its tongue has prominent rearward projections whereas drepanidine tongues lack "lingual wings." Most drepanidines lack the usual passerine predator-response behaviors but M. phaeosoma exhibits them. Vocalizations of the Poo-uli do not resemble those of any of the three vocal groupings of Hawaiian honeycreepers. The color pattern of M. phaeosoma is unique among native Hawaiian birds. Phenotypic characters thus provide no basis for inclusion of Melamprosops in the Drepanidinae; its relationships are unknown.
10.2307/1369992|Constant-effort mist-netting has become an increasingly popular tool in longterm monitoring of bird populations. Monitoring programs often assume that variation in the capture rates of adults reflects variation in breeding densities of the sampled population. We test this assumption by comparing annual variation in mist-net capture rates to known variation in breeding densities of four species breeding in coastal scrub habitat at Point Reyes National Seashore, California. For the period 1980 to 1992, breeding densities for each species were assessed using spot-mapping observations of color-banded individuals. These were compared to capture rates calculated from constant-effort mist-netting. Capture rates of adults correlated significantly with breeding density for Spotted Towhees (Pipilo maculatus), Song Sparrows (Melospiza melodia), and Wrentits (Chamaea fasciata), but not for White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys). Analysis of covariance confirmed that the relationship of mist-net capture rates to breeding density differed among species. Independent of the effects of breeding density on capture rates, adult capture rates of the four species were higher in years with high rainfall. Among Wrentits and Song Sparrows, approximately 50% or more of adults caught were not occupying territories at the study site; the same bias may exist among other species as well. We conclude that relative changes in breeding density over time can be inferred from variation in mist-net capture rates for some, but not all, species. Additional studies are needed to validate the use of mist nets to assess spatial differences in abundance and to monitor temporal changes in abundance in habitats other than coastal scrub.
3247793| Many, but not all, juvenile Spruce Grouse (Falcipennis canadensis) disperse from their natal range in autumn. In spring shortly before breeding, some of these autumn dispersers will disperse a second time from their winter range, whereas others make their first dispersal from natal range. I postulated that dispersing first in autumn provides greater experience on a potential breeding area than immigrating to the breeding area in spring. I predicted that autumn-immigrant females would show a higher percentage of females nesting, would nest earlier, and would produce more juveniles into late summer than would immigrants in spring. Data were available for females on three areas widely spaced across their geographic range. Immigrants contributed most to production. Parameters did not vary greatly among study areas. Combining all areas, 68% of autumn immigrants and 69% of spring immigrants were known to nest, mean hatch dates relative to the annual median differed by less than 1 day, and spring immigrants produced more juveniles surviving into late summer than did autumn immigrants (1.1 versus 0.7 juveniles per female). Hence, there is no evidence yet that autumn dispersal directly confers a reproductive advantage for female Spruce Grouse. Results underscore a perplexing question: if site-specific conditions stimulate winter residents to emigrate, why do the spring immigrants that replace them fare so well? /// Una gran parte de los individuos juveniles de Falcipennis canadensis se dispersan desde sus sitios natales en el otoo. En la primavera, justo antes del apareo, algunos de estos individuos dispersados en el otoo se dispersan nuevamente desde sus sitios de invernada mientras que otros se dispersan por primera vez desde sus sitios natales. Mi postulado fue que la dispersin inicial de otoo confiere mayor experiencia en cuanto al rea potencial de apareo en comparacin con aquellos que emigran al rea de reproduccin en la primavera. Mi prediccin fue que las hembras que emigran en otoo representaran un mayor porcentaje de las hembras anidando, anidaran ms temprano y produciran ms individuos juveniles a finales del verano que aquellas que emigran en la primavera. Cont con datos disponibles para hembras en tres reas ampliamente espaciadas a lo largo de su rango geogrfico de distribucin. Los inmigrantes contribuyeron ms a la produccin. Los parmetros no presentaron mayor variacin entre las reas de estudio. Combinando todas las reas, el 68% de los inmigrates otoales y el 69% de los inmigrantes primaverales anidaron. La diferencia entre las fechas promedio de nacimiento y la mediana anual fue menos de l da y los inmigrantes primaverales produjeron ms individuos juveniles que sobrevivieron hasta finales del verano que los inmigrantes otoales (1.1 versus 0.7 individuos por hembra). Por lo tanto, an no existe evidencia de que la dispersin otoal le confiere una ventaja reproductiva a las hembras de F. canadensis. Estos resultados revelan una pregunta fascinante: si las condiciones particulares del sitio estimulan a los residentes invernales a emigrar, por qu los inmigrantes primaverales que los reemplazan se desenvuelven tan bien? 
1370733| King Penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) from breeding islands in the Indian Ocean (Crozet and Kerguelen Islands) and the Atlantic Ocean (South Georgia and Falkland Islands) were equipped with global location sensors to compare their foraging patterns during different times of the year. In summer, all birds investigated traveled toward the Antarctic Polar Front (APF), irrespective of whether they bred to the north (Crozet Islands, Falkland Islands), within (Kerguelen Islands) or to the south (South Georgia) of this hydrographic feature. Whereas most birds remained north of the APF and foraged in waters of the Antarctic Polar Frontal Zone, some penguins also traveled, or remained (South Georgia), south of the APF and foraged in Antarctic waters. It appeared that food resources in the vicinity of the APF were sufficiently predictable to warrant travel of several hundred km by King Penguins for foraging. Data collected on the winter distribution of King Penguins indicated at least two different foraging strategies. Birds from the oceanic Crozet Islands foraged beyond the APF in the Antarctic waters, whereas birds from the Falkland Islands relied also on the resources provided by the highly diverse and productive slope of the Patagonian Shelf. However, despite these differences, in both cases minimum distances of sometimes more than 10 000 km were covered. Further research on the foraging habitats of King Penguins over the entire breeding season and the temporal and spatial changes of oceanographic features is necessary to obtain a comprehensive picture on the variability in the foraging ranges of King Penguins. /// Comparamos los patrones de forrajeo de individuos reproductivos de Aptenodytes patagonicus provenientes de las islas del Ocano ndico (Islas Crozet y Kerguelen) y Ocano Atlntico (Islas Georgia del Sur y Malvinas) durante diferentes perodos del ao, equipando pinginos con sensores de localizacin global. En el verano, todas las aves investigadas viajaron hacia el Frente Polar Antrtico (FPA), independientemente de si se reprodujeron al norte (Islas Crozet, Islas Malvinas), en (Islas Kerguelen) o al sur (Islas Georgias del Sur) de aquella entidad hidrogrfica. Aunque la mayora de las aves permanecieron al norte del FPA y forrajearon en aguas de la Zona Polar Frontal Antrtica, algunos pinginos tambin viajaron hacia el sur del FPA y forrajearon en aguas antrticas. Al parecer los recursos alimenticios en el FPA fueron lo suficientemente predecibles como para justificar que los pinginos viajen varios cientos de kilmetros para forrajear. Los datos colectados durante la distribucin de invierno de A. patagonicus indicaron por lo menos dos estrategias de forrajeo diferentes. Las aves provenientes de las islas ocenicas Crozet forrajearon ms all del FPA en aguas antrticas, mientras que las aves provenientes de las Islas Malvinas dependieron adems de los recursos que provee la diversa y productiva plataforma martima patagnica. Sin embargo, a pesar de estas diferencias, en ambos casos a veces las aves cubrieron distancias mnimas de ms de 10 000 km. Para obtener un panorama completo sobre la variabilidad en los rangos de forrajeo de A. patagonicus es necesario efectuar ms investigaciones sobre los hbitats de forrajeo de estos pinginos durante la totalidad de la poca reproductiva y durante todos los cambios temporales y espaciales de las entidades hidrogrficas. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100113|We revisit the water penetration and repellency of feathers and these factors relation to bird behavior and habitat in the light of information that has become available since 1985. We present the physical principles of water penetration and repellency of porous surfaces and their relevance to feathers. We show that the requirements for water repellency of feathers in air and those for resistance to water penetration under water are partly in conflict with each other. Both aspects can be presented and evaluated by the same parameter, expressed in terms of the width 2
10.2307/1368809|The Mourning Warbler (Oporornis philadelphia) is highly variable throughout its breeding range (Hall 1979, Pitocchelli 1990) but a thorough study of geographic variation in this species is lacking. Therefore, the nature of this variation is poorly understood. I studied macrogeographic variation in plumage and skeletal characters of 364 specimens from most of the breeding range in North America. There was no clear pattern of variation in external or skeletal measurements. Univariate analyses of external characters and skeletal characters revealed little variation between localities for most characters. Multivariate analyses also yielded little structure or subdivision among populations. Regression analyses failed to find significant north-south clines in several size measurements (P > 0.05). The Mourning Warbler did not conform to predictions based on Bergmann's rule. Spatial Autocorrelation of plumage, external and size measurements only found one character--TAIL length--which conformed to the isolation by distance model. A significant Canonical Correlation (P < 0.05) was found between external measurements and climatic data but only 36% of the external variation could be explained by the environmental variables. There appears to be little geographic variation among populations from the breeding range of the Mourning Warbler. There was a weak relationship between some morphological measurements and climatic variables. Environmental selection does not appear to play a role in shaping the pattern of variation on the breeding grounds in North America.
4122511| We evaluated the use of postovulatory follicles (POFs) up to 90 days postlaying to determine breeding propensity and clutch size in Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). During 2002-2003, we examined ovaries from 48 postbreeding female Mallards (24 captive, wild-strain and 24 radio-marked, free-ranging) with known laying histories at periods ranging from 30 to 90 days postlaying. We found that POFs remained identifiable macroscopically (at 4.6-16 x magnification) in all females (24 of 24) collected 30-60 days postlaying and in 79% (19 of 24) of females collected 61-90 days postlaying. Using microscopic examination (20-80x magnification), we found that 1 POFs remained identifiable in all cross-sectioned ovaries collected from females up to 90 days postlaying. We found a weak correlation between macroscopic POF counts and observed clutch size for females collected 30-60 days postlaying, but not for females collected 61-90 days postlaying. Blind tests using ovaries from known nonbreeding females confirmed that experienced, independent observers correctly distinguished breeding from non-breeding females 100% of the time up to 60 days postlaying using macroscopic techniques and up to 90 days postlaying using microscopic techniques. These findings indicate that POFs provide a viable method to estimate breeding propensity in free-ranging Mallard populations and potentially other waterfowl species. /// Evaluamos el uso de folculos post ovulatorios (FPOs) por un periodo de hasta 90 das despus de la puesta de huevos para determinar la propensin reproductiva y el tamao de la nidada de Anas platyrhynchos. Durante el 2002 y el 2003 examinamos los ovarios de 48 hembras post reproductivas de A. platyrhynchos (24 individuos cautivos provenientes de una cepa silvestre y 24 individuos libres marcados con transmisores). La historia de puesta de huevos de dichas hembras era conocida y se examinaron por periodos de 30 a 90 das despus de la puesta. Encontramos que los FPOs permanecieron identificables a nivel macroscpico (magnificatin de 4.6 a 16x) en todas las hembras (24 de 24) colectadas de 30 a 60 das despus de la puesta y en el 79% (19 de 24) de las hembras colectadas de 61 a 90 das despus de la puesta. A nivel microscpico (magnificacin de 20 a 80x), encontramos que uno o ms de los FPOs permanecieron identificables en todos los cortes transversales de los ovarios colectados de hembras de hasta 90 dias despus de la puesta. Encontramos una correlatin dbil entre los conteos de FPOs macroscpicos y el tamao de la nidada observado en hembras colectadas entre 30 y 60 das despus de la puesta, pero no en hembras colectadas entre 61 y 90 das despus de la puesta. Pruebas realizadas utilizando ovarios de hembras no reproductivas, en donde el observador desconoca las condiciones de los ovarios, confirmaron que observadores independientes experimentados distinguieron correctamente el 100% de las hembras reproductivas de las no reproductivas hasta 60 das despus de la puesta utilizando tcnicas macroscpicas y hasta 90 das despus de la puesta usando tcnicas microscpicas. Los hallazgos indican que los FPOs proveen un mtodo viable para estimar la propensin reproductiva en poblaciones silvestres de A. platyrhynchos y potencialmente de otras especies de Anseriformes. 
10.2307/1369901|Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) eggs in natural nests hatch either before or at the same time as Yellow Warbler (Dendroica petechia) eggs despite being almost twice the size. Cowbird eggs may hatch before Yellow Warbler eggs because they (1) prolong the incubation of host eggs, (2) have more rapid embryonic development, or (3) hatch in response to stimuli from host eggs. We tested these hypotheses by comparing the incubation periods of cowbird eggs incubated in natural nests, incubated artificially in isolation from other eggs, and incubated artificially in clutches of Yellow Warbler eggs. Cowbird eggs incubated artificially in isolation from other eggs took significantly longer to hatch than either artificially incubated warbler eggs or naturally incubated cowbird eggs. The ratio of incubation period to egg volume was less for cowbirds than warblers, which indicates that cowbird embryos develop more rapidly relative to their size. The presence of a cowbird egg in natural nests significantly prolonged the incubation period of warbler eggs. Therefore, cowbird eggs appear to disrupt the incubation of smaller host eggs. Finally, the incubation periods of cowbird eggs incubated artificially in contact with warbler eggs were shorter, but not significantly so, than cowbird eggs incubated in isolation from other eggs. These results suggest that in addition to rapid embryonic development, cowbirds hatch before many hosts by disrupting incubation of smaller eggs and, possibly hatching early in response to stimuli from host eggs.
10.2307/1367214|During a two-year study in Malaysia, I recorded molt in 117 adult Fantail Warblers (Cisticola juncidis) to examine the annual molt pattern in relation to the population's breeding seasons. Adult male warblers that were molting primaries were recorded only during January, September, and October, while females in primary molt were recorded in every month except July. Molt in the secondaries, rectrices, and head and body followed similar schedules. There appears to be just one molt annually, unlike the pattern in most other parts of the species' range. Adult male warblers begin to molt synchronously at the end of the summer breeding season; most complete their primary molt before territory establishment and courtship activity in the winter breeding season. The females' postbreeding molt is less synchronous because many females in this polygynous population are caring for fledglings weeks after males stop breeding. Thus, many female birds enter the winter breeding season still in molt. Rather than risk losing a breeding opportunity, these birds apparently delay, or interrupt, their molt to begin breeding, and then complete molting after the winter breeding season. The flexible molt schedule of birds in this population is a facultative response to the seasonal availability of nesting cover and food, and enables the warblers to exploit valuable, brief opportunities for breeding.
10.2307/1366896|Movements by 93 radio-tagged Spruce Grouse (Dendragapus canadensis) between winter and summer ranges in southwestern Alberta were compared between sex and age classes. A bird's movement from the range occupied during its first winter to its first potential breeding area was considered to be the spring phase of dispersal. Subsequent movements between the breeding and wintering areas were classed as migratory movements. The similarity between spring dispersal and migration distances within a sex, and the site fidelity of adult females to the range occupied during their first winter, support the suggestion that migratory movements in Spruce Grouse retrace their first spring dispersal movement made when about nine months old. Proportionally more females than males moved long distances. Among adult females, short-distance migrants (moving <2 km) were more variable than long-distance migrants in the timing of migratory movements. Additionally, short-distance migrants associated less with other adult females, especially other short-distance migrants, in winter flocks than did long-distance migrants. The behavioral differences may reflect the proximal causes producing each type of migration/dispersal.
10.2307/1370006|We examined how wind and temperature below the thermoneutral zone may reduce the suitability of small, isolated woodlots for permanent resident woodland birds. Carolina Chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) and Tufted Titmice (Baeolophus bicolor) exhibited significantly reduced foraging height in the forest canopy with increasing wind strength. The horizontal area of woodlots frequented by most mixed-species flock members was significantly reduced by the combined effect of wind and temperature. In particular, all mixed-species flock members except female Downy Woodpeckers (Picoides pubescens) were found farther from windward edges of woodlots when wind speeds were higher and temperatures were lower. We conclude that chickadees and titmice may be most affected by abiotic edge effects, both sexes of White-breasted Nuthatch (Sitta carolinensis) and male Downy Woodpeckers intermediately affected, and female Downy Woodpeckers least affected. Our results suggest that effects of wind and temperature may be important to populations of bark-foraging birds inhabiting highly fragmented habitat in the Temperate Zone.
10.1525/cond.2012.110080|The Northern Goshawk (
90008445|Understanding patch dynamics can help scientists better understand metapopulations and the relationships of animals that share a habitat. The Burrowing Owl (
10.2307/1368448|We examined various aspects of nest-defense behavior in marsh-nesting Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) in Madison, Wisconsin. Blackbirds used seven types of calls in nest defense. The female scream elicited the strongest response of any call type; attracting more birds, and eliciting the highest rate of hovers. Additionally, the scream caused begging nestlings to stop begging and crouch low in the nest. Female blackbirds had higher call rates to predator models than did male blackbirds; however, males were the more aggressive sex in defense of the nest. Although there were no differences in call rates to different predator models, there were differences in more overt nest-defense behavior. The ability to drive off a predator best explained the variation in aggressiveness to the predator models. Male blackbirds, when faced with a choice, defended nests of primary females more aggressively than nests of secondary females; the differences were due to neither the nests' contents nor to the stage of the nests. Call rates, but not rates of dives and strikes, were correlated with successful nests. Finally, the most aggressive males had the largest harems.
10.2307/1368524|Attendants are common at Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) nests during the nestling period. Parent-attendant interactions were studied at a Tree Swallow nest box trail in New York. Attendants did not cooperate with parents (Lombardo 1986a) and were hypothesized to be individuals in search of potential future nest sites (Lombardo 1987). Therefore, they posed several potential threats to parental reproductive success. Even though parents commonly encountered attendants at their nests, parent-attendant interactions were usually nonhostile. Parents were very unresponsive to model-attendants during the nestling period. Parents infrequently chased live attendants or attacked model-attendants presumably because the potential threats posed by attendants were rarely realized. Attendants were most active late in the breeding season when it was too late for attendants capable of breeding to breed successfully. Hatching year attendants had little to gain by behaving aggressively towards parents. This mutual restraint in conflict could be maintained by reciprocity (Lombardo 1985).
4123204| We examined Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) abundance and occurrence in southwestern West Virginia, where the coal-mining technique of mountaintop removal mining-valley fill converts large contiguous tracts of deciduous forest to forest patches surrounded by early successional habitats. Our study objectives were to quantify abundance and occurrence of Cerulean Warblers relative to (1) distance from the edge of extensive reclaimed grasslands and (2) habitat structure and landscape characteristics. Cerulean Warbler abundance increased with distance from the edge and edge effects extended 340 m into the forest. Percent occurrence did not vary with distance from mine edge, suggesting a degree of tolerance to the extensive edge occurring at the interface of forest and reclaimed lands. Abundance and occurrence were greater on ridges and midslopes than in bottomlands; consequently, disturbances such as mountaintop mining in which ridges are removed may have a greater impact on populations compared to other sources of fragmentation where ridges are not disturbed. Models based on the information-theoretic approach indicated that Cerulean Warblers were more likely to be present in productive sites on northwest to southeast facing slopes, upper slope positions (midslope to ridgetop), and forests with low sapling density. Cerulean Warbler abundance was positively associated with more productive sites, higher snag density, large blocks of mature deciduous forest, and low amounts of edge in the landscape. In addition to outright loss of forested habitat, mountaintop mining-valley fill alters the spatial configuration of forested habitats, creating edge and area effects that negatively affect Cerulean Warbler abundance and occurrence in the reclaimed mine landscape. /// Examinamos la abundancia y la presencia de Dendroica cerulea en el suroeste de West Virginia, donde la tcnica de extraccin de carbn, que consiste en excavar las parte altas y rellenar los valles, conlleva a la conversin de grandes extensiones de bosques caducifolios en parches de bosque rodeados por ambientes sucesionales. Los objetivos de nuestro estudio fueron cuantificar la abundancia y la presencia de D. cerulea con relacin a la distancia al borde de pastizales extensos en recuperacin y a la estructura del hbitat y las caractersticas del paisaje. La abundancia de esta especie aument con la distancia al borde, y los efectos de borde se extendieron hasta 340 m dentro del bosque. El porcentaje de presencia no vari con la distancia al borde de la mina, lo que sugiere que existe un grado de tolerancia ante los extensos bordes que se encuentran en la interfase entre el bosque y las tierras en recuperacin. La abundancia y la presencia fueron mayores en los filos y en la parte media de las pendientes de las montaas que en los valles. Consecuentemente, los disturbios como la explotacin de minas en las cimas de las montaas, donde los filos son removidos, podran tener un fuerte impacto sobre las poblaciones en comparacin con otras fuentes de fragmentacin que no causan disturbios en los filos. De acuerdo a un enfoque de informacin terica, los modelos indicaron que la probabilidad de presencia de D. cerulea es mayor en los sitios productivos ubicados sobre pendientes orientadas hacia el noroeste o el sureste, en los sitios elevados en las pendientes (parte media o cimas de las montaas) y en los bosques con baja densidad de renovales. La abundancia de la especie se asoci positivamente con los sitios ms productivos, con una mayor densidad de tocones, con grandes bloques de bosque caducifolio maduro y con pequeas extensiones de borde en el paisaje. Adems de causar la prdida directa de los bosques, la extraccin de carbn en la parte alta de las montaas y el relleno de los valles alteran la configuracin espacial de los hbitats forestales, lo que crea efectos de borde y de rea que afectan negativamente la abundancia y la presencia de D. cerulea en paisajes en proceso de recuperacin. 
10.2307/1370308|We investigated how natural variation in abundance and availability of the main prey of American Kestrels (Falco sparverius), small mammals, influenced provisioning rates by parents, and offspring size and survival. Provisioning behavior of kestrels was not constrained by the abundance of food in the environment; however, the availability of food, mediated through variation in weather, appeared to significantly influence parental provisioning behavior. Moreover, variation in weather had clear effects on reproductive success because nestlings exposed to inclement weather were smaller and lighter at fledging, and less likely to survive to fledging, compared to nestlings raised during good weather conditions. Prey abundance was not related to offspring size or survival. Our results suggest American Kestrels are limited by the availability, as opposed to abundance, of food on territories. It is likely that during our study, prey abundance was above some minimum threshold necessary to support successful reproduction, and so variation in weather affected reproduction more than variation in prey abundance.
1370712| Prolactin levels rapidly drop after breeding failure in several terrestrial bird species, but in penguins prolactin secretion can be maintained well after failure. We measured prolactin secretion in relation to reproductive failure in a tropical seabird, the Red-footed Booby (Sula sula). Incubation failure was recorded in 7 nests (2 accidental losses, 5 desertions). Prolactin titers significantly decreased after incubation failure. In birds that accidentally lost their egg, prolactin titers declined but measurements 12 to 24 hr after failure were still above basal levels. Birds naturally deserting their egg exhibited prolactin titers typical of basal levels 6-24 hr after abandonment. Two birds showed lower prolactin concentration as early as 4-8 days before nest desertion, suggesting that a decline in prolactin levels may precede egg desertion. This study shows that in this tropical seabird, incubation failure results in a rapid cessation of prolactin secretion, as it does for terrestrial birds. /// Los niveles de prolactina de varias especies de aves terrestres disminuyen rpidamente despus del fracaso reproductivo. Sin embargo, en los pinginos la secrecin de prolactina tiende a mantenerse inalterada despus del fracaso reproductivo. Medimos los niveles de prolactina en relacin al fracaso reproductivo en un ave marina tropical, Sula sula. Se observaron 7 eventos de fracaso reproductivo (2 prdidas accidentales de huevos y 5 deserciones de nidos). En general, los niveles de prolactina disminuyeron significativamente despus del fracaso reproductivo. En las aves que perdieron accidentalmente sus huevos, los niveles de prolactina disminuyeron, pero las medidas registradas 12 a 24 horas despus del fracaso fueron superiores a los niveles basales. Los niveles de prolactina de individuos que espontneamente abandonaron sus nidos, medidos 6 a 24 horas despus del abandono, fueron similares a los niveles basales. Dos individuos presentaron concentraciones de prolactina bajas 4 a 8 das antes del abandono de sus nidos, sugiriendo que una disminucin del nivel de prolactina podra preceder el abandono de los nidos. Este estudio demuestra que el fracaso de incubacin de esta especie de ave marina tropical conlleva a una rpida cesacin de la secrecin de prolactina, tal como ha sido observado en las aves terrestres. 
10.2307/1369538|Nest attentiveness and behavior of incubating female Greater Snow Geese (Anser caerulescens atlanticus) was monitored on Bylot Island, NWT in 1990-1991. Females incubated about 94% of the time through much of the incubation period but nest attentiveness declined to 91% at approximately 6 days before hatch then rose to close to 100% in the last 1-4 days. Females took recesses throughout the 24 day incubation period, but frequency increased in the third week of incubation then decreased markedly in the last 1-4 days. During the latter half of the incubation period, individual females took an average of 5-7 recesses/day during which they remained close to the nest, and most devoted more than 90% of the time to feeding vigorously on sprouting graminoids. Mean recess duration was constant at about 15-16 min, except for the last 1-4 days when it increased to >30 min. Females captured during late incubation had relatively high body mass (x=2,158 g) which represented a loss of only 17% in mass during incubation and showed that body reserves had not been depleted. Retaining some body reserves through to hatch may increase survival of females and may enhance their capability of caring for the young during brood rearing. In comparison with other large geese, Greater Snow Geese showed a low rate of nest attentiveness and took frequent recesses during which they fed intensively; they relied more heavily on food obtained in the breeding area (as opposed to reserves laid down during migration) and lost a smaller proportion of their initial mass during incubation. This strategy appears to be imposed by the lengthy migration to the high Arctic, which reduces the amount of stored reserves available for the demands of nesting.
4151020| In many duet-singing songbirds, paired birds combine their song types nonrandomly to form duet songs. Several different behavioral mechanisms could generate nonrandom song type associations in duets. I tested female Black-bellied Wrens (Thryothorus fasciatoventris) for one such mechanism: adherence to a set of rules linking female response songs to male stimulus songs. I call this set of rules a "duet code." Duets of free-living Black-bellied Wrens were recorded in 2001 and 2002. In 2003 I returned to the same territories and played the male song types from the recorded duets. Females answered male song stimuli as if duetting with the playback speaker. Although the known repertoires of females averaged 8.4 song types, each female sang only a single song type in response to each male song type. Random answering could not account for this pattern, supporting the hypothesis that females abide by duet codes. Females that were still paired with their mates from 2001-2002 answered 100 of their mate's songs with the same song types they had used previously, demonstrating that codes are stable over time. In contrast, females that were new to a territory answered an average of only 18 of their mate's song types with the same song type as the previous female, indicating that duet codes are individually distinctive. Duet participation by female Black-bellied Wrens represents a special kind of animal communication, in which discrete vocal signals consistently elicit discrete vocal responses according to an individually distinctive set of rules. /// En muchas aves que cantan en duetos, las parejas combinan sus canciones de manera no azarosa para formar estos duetos. Una serie de mecanismos podran generar estas asociaciones de cantos durante los duetos. Evalu uno de estos mecanismos de comportamiento al que llamo "cdigo de dueto" en Thryrothorus fasciatoventris. Este cdigo de dueto est basado en una serie de reglas que conectan los cantos de los machos odos por las hembras, con los cantos de respuesta emitidos por stas. En los aos 2001 y 2002, grab los cantos en dueto de parejas de T. fasciatoventris. En el ao 2003 regres a los mismos territorios y reproduje los cantos emitidos por el macho en los duetos grabados el ao anterior. Las hembras respondieron al canto del macho en dueto con la grabacin. Cada hembra cant su propio tipo de canto en respuesta al tipo de canto de cada macho, an pudiendo escoger entre ms de ocho tipos de canto. Este patrn de respuestas no puede ser explicado por el azar, lo cual indica que las hembras utilizan el cdigo de dueto. Las hembras que permanecieron con sus parejas durante los aos 2001 y 2002 respondieron al 100% de los tipos de canto del macho, utilizando la misma respuesta a los cantos grabados en los aos 2001 y 2002. Esto demuestra que los cdigos permanecen estables con el tiempo. En promedio, las hembras que usurparon el territorio de las hembras grabadas en 2001 y 2002, respondieron solamente un 18% de los tipos de canto de su pareja con los mismos tipos de canto de las hembras grabadas en los aos 2001 y 2002. Esto demuestra que los cdigos de dueto son distintos entre individuos. El uso del cdigo de dueto en T. fasciatoventris representa una clase especial de comunicacin animal, en la cual seales vocales especfcas promueven respuestas vocales especficas que son determinadas por una serie de reglas individualmente distintivas. 
10.1525/cond.2013.110138|The family Rallidae is a distinct, species-rich group of birds, many of which are exceptional at long-distance colonization. Six of the ten species in the genus
10.2307/1370449|Plumage, size, and sexual dimorphism of the endemic Hairy Woodpecker subspecies Picoides villosus picoideus are described and compared with a less isolated insular population. Museum specimens of P. v. picoideus from the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia were compared with P. v. harrisi specimens from Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Specimens from the two localities are similar in size, although the culmen of P. v. picoideus is 5-6% shorter. In plumage, P. v. picoideus is distinct in having markings on the belly and flanks, dorsal barring, and barring on the outer rectrices. The breast and belly are much darker and the wing coverts have fewer white markings in P. v. picoideus than in P. v. harrisi. Adults and juveniles, and adult males and females, differ only in minor features of plumage. Adult plumage of P. v. picoideus and insular populations of P. villosus in Newfoundland and the Grand Bahamas resembles juvenal plumage in mainland locations, and includes ancestral traits in this woodpecker lineage. Sexual dimorphism in size is similar in P. v. picoideus, P. v. harrisi, and continental populations, suggesting no ecological release of the sexes on the Queen Charlotte Islands or Vancouver Island. Relative sexual dimorphism in bill size varies little over the species' range, hence appears to be influenced little by ecological factors.
10.2307/1369245|We studied intracolony variability in habitat attributes of nest sites and breeding performance in two years when average breeding success was poor at a colony of Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) in southcoastal Alaska. There were few significant relationships between habitat attributes of nest sites and either breeding chronology or breeding success within four island-year samples, and none were consistent among samples. Hatching success (number of eggs hatching/number of eggs laid) was strongly and positively related to clutch size. Differences in reproductive performance among pairs were accentuated during periods of apparent stress, indicating that differences in parental quality expressed during favorable periods were amplified during unfavorable periods. These results contradict hypotheses that intrapopulation variability in clutch size represents adaptive adjustments of pairs based on their relative parenting ability or that pairs laying relatively large clutches are most adversely affected in bad years. Differences in reproductive performance seemed to persist between years. In 1979, when relatively few gulls bred, some areas of the colony contained no nests with eggs. In 1980, breeding chronology and performance until hatching did not differ between those areas and areas where gulls also bred in 1979, but fledging success was significantly lower in those areas than in areas where gulls also had nested in 1979.
10.2307/1368245|I studied the calling behavior of radio-tagged Mexican Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) in northern Arizona. Owls used a variety of calls, with three call types (Four-note Location Call, Contact Call, and Bark Series) accounting for 86% of calling bouts heard. These calls were used by both sexes, but in significantly different proportions. Males (n = 4) called twice as frequently as females (n = 3), and there also appeared to be intrasexual differences in calling rates. Calling activity increased from March through May, then declined from June through November. Calling activity was highest during the 2-hr period following sunset, with smaller peaks 4-8 hr after sunset and just before sunrise. Calling bouts averaged 9.9 min in duration, and were significantly longer when other owls were calling. Owls called more than expected during the last quarter and new moon phases of the lunar cycle, and called most frequently on calm, clear nights when no precipitation was falling. The timing and nature of Spotted Owl calls suggests that calling behavior may be as important in intrapair communication as in territory advertisement. Differences in calling rates among owls suggest that not all owls will be equally detectable using calling surveys.
4151076| We documented the local density and sex, age-class, and body size distributions of Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) among habitats at Baha Santa Mara, northwestern Mexico, during the nonbreeding season. Three habitats were recognized: brackish flats, mangroves, and cattail marshes, which we ranked as richest to poorest in food resources and safest to most dangerous in predation danger. Western Sandpiper population structure differed among habitats. Bird densities were highest in brackish flats, the richest and safest habitat, and males and adults of both sexes were overrepresented. In cattail marshes, which appeared to be the poorest and most dangerous habitat, bird densities were lower, and the sex ratio and age ratios within each sex were more even. In mangroves, bird densities were similar to those in cattail marshes, but sex and age ratios were similar to those in brackish flats. Exposed culmen, an index of structural size, was not related to habitat use in either sex. Body mass of immature males was more variable than that of adults among habitats and immature males gained mass throughout the winter. Birds in brackish flats and mangroves were initially heavier, but tended to lose mass, whereas birds in cattail marshes were initially lighter, but tended to gain mass. Mass distributions thus converged in late winter. While the social and ecological causes and significance of differential sex and age-class distributions among habitats remain largely unquantifled, evidence from this and previous studies suggests that nonbreeding population structure is a common phenomenon with important implications for migratory shorebirds. /// Se determin la densidad y distribucin de los sexos, clases de edad y tamao de Calidris mauri en diferentes hbitats de Baha Santa Mara, noroeste de Mxico, durante la poca no-reproductiva. Se reconocieron tres hbitats: planicies lodosas, manglares y tulares, los cuales se clasificaron de mayor a menor con respecto a la densidad de invertebrados y de menor a mayor con respecto al riesgo de depredacin. La estructura poblacional de C. mauri difiri entre hbitats. La densidad de aves fue alta en planicies lodosas, el hbitat con mayor densidad de invertebrados y menor riesgo de depredacin, y los machos y los adultos de ambos sexos estuvieron sobre-representados en este tipo de hbitat. En tulares, el hbitat que pareci tener la menor densidad de invertebrados y el mayor riesgo de depredacin, la densidad de aves fue ms baja y la proporcin de sexos y edades en cada sexo fue similar. En manglares, la densidad de aves fue similar a la observada en tulares, pero la proporcin de sexos y edades fue similar a la observada en planicies lodosas. El culmen expuesto, un ndice del tamaio estructural, no se relacion con el uso del hbitat en ninguno de los sexos. El peso de los machos inmaduros fue ms variable entre hbitats que el de los machos adultos, y los machos inmaduros aumentaron su peso durante el invierno. Las aves en planicies lodosas y manglares fueron inicialmente ms pesadas pero tendieron a perder peso, mientras que las aves en tulares fueron inicialmente ms ligeras pero ganaron peso. Por lo tanto, la distribucin de los pesos corporales convergi entre hbitats a fines del invierno. Aunque el origen y el signiflcado social y ecolgico de la distribucin diferencial de sexos y clases de edad permanecen en gran parte sin ser cuantificados, este y estudios previos muestran que la estructura de poblaciones no-reproductivas es un fenmeno comn, el cual presenta implicaciones importantes para las poblaciones de aves playeras migratorias. 
4096544| The rate of chick growth in high-latitude breeding shorebirds is rapid, but little is known about the effect of chick mass, growth, and brood movements on subsequent brood survival. To address these topics, we monitored chick growth patterns, daily brood movements, and survival of Western Sandpipers (Calidris mauri) on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. We assessed the effect of chick age, mass, and hatch date on brood survival using Program MARK. We mapped brood locations daily, and compared brood movement patterns between successful and unsuccessful broods. Younger chicks survived at lower rates and moved shorter distances than older chicks. The overall probability of one or more chicks from a brood surviving to 15 days of age was 0.73  0.05 SE. Brood survival declined seasonally, and broods with heavier chicks survived at higher rates than those with lighter chicks. On average, successful broods fledged 1.7  0.1 SE chicks. Rate of chick growth was intermediate between those of high arctic and temperate-breeding shorebirds, and chick mass at hatching declined seasonally. Western Sandpiper brood survival was lowest when chicks were young, spatially clumped, and unable to maintain homeothermy, probably because young chicks were more vulnerable to both complete depredation events and extreme weather. Our data suggest that larger, older chicks are able to avoid predators by being spatially dispersed and highly mobile; thermal independence, achieved after approximately day five, enables chicks to better endure prolonged periods of cold and low food availability. /// La tasa de crecimiento de polluelos en aves que se reproducen a latitudes altas es rpida, pero se conoce poco sobre el efecto del peso y el crecimiento de los polluelos y de los movimientos de las cras sobre la supervivencia de las nidadas. Para evaluar estos tpicos, monitoreamos los patrones de crecimiento de polluelos, el movimiento diario de las cras, y la sobrevivencia de Calidris mauri en el Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim, Alaska. Determinamos el efecto de la edad, el peso y la fecha de eclosin de los polluelos sobre la supervivencia de la nidada utilizando el programa MARK. Mapeamos la localizacin de las cras diariamente, y comparamos los patrones de movimientos entre nidadas exitosas y no exitosas. Los polluelos ms jvenes tuvieron tasas de supervivencia menores y se movieron distancias ms cortas que los polluelos de ms edad. La probabilidad general de que uno o ms polluelos de una nidada sobreviviera hasta 15 das de edad fue 0.73  0.05 EE. La supervivencia de las nidadas disminuy estacionalmente y las nidadas con polluelos de mayor peso tuvieron tasas de supervivencia mayores que las nidadas con polluelos ms livianos. En promedio, las nidadas exitosas produjeron 1.7  0.1 EE polluelos. La tasa de crecimiento de los polluelos fue intermedia con respecto a las aves playeras que se reproducen en el rtico y las que lo hacen en zonas templadas. El peso de los polluelos al momento de eclosionar disminuy estacionalmente. La supervivencia de las nidadas de C. mauri fue mnima cuando los polluelos eran jvenes, estaban agrupados y no eran capaces de mantener la homeotermia, probablemente debido a que los polluelos jvenes eran ms vulnerables a eventos de depredacon completa y al clima extremo. Nuestros datos sugieren que los polluelos ms grandes y de mayor edad son capaces de evitar a los depredadores al encontrarse espacialmente dispersos y ser altamente m viles; la independencia trmica que es alcanzada aproximadamente luego del da cinco permite a los polluelos soportar periodos prolongados de fro y de baja disponibilidad de alimento. 
10.2307/1369537|I examined nutrient and organ dynamics of breeding Cinnamon Teal (Anas cyanoptera) in Arizona to determine when nutrient reserves, if any, were acquired, and the relative use of endogenous and exogenous nutrient sources during clutch production. Females stored lipid and protein after arrival and through rapid follicle growth (RFG). Females expended lipid reserves during laying (P = 0.0001, r<sup>2</sup>=0.85), but size of remaining lipid reserve was not related to the number of eggs laid (P = 0.22, r<sup>2</sup>=-0.10), nor to the estimated amount of lipid needed to complete the clutch in laying females (P = 0.54, r<sup>2</sup>=-0.04). Females did not use endogenous protein during laying (P = 0.12, r<sup>2</sup>=0.10). Males stored protein while their mates underwent RFG. Digestive organ measures in both sexes varied in relation to feeding ecology during breeding. Small body size, the ability to exploit a diversity of foods, and time constraints on nutrient acquisition likely influence nutrient reserve dynamics of breeding Cinnamon Teal in Arizona.
1369686|We describe the vocal repertoires of Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia) adults and chicks during the breeding season. Using recordings from throughout the chick-rearing period, we identified four distinct calls of chicks and six of adults. We present sonograms and quantitative descriptions of each call and summarize the behavioral context in which they were used. Chick calls are mostly flute-like sounds at approximately the same pitch that tend to develop from a simple peep during hatching through a rapidly frequency-modulated departure call, given shortly before, during, and after they leave the colony at fledging. Departure calls appear to facilitate interactions between the chick and the attending male parent during this risky period for the chick. Adult calls are lower pitched and sound more gruff, with different call types having significantly different pitch, duration, and number of syllables. Among-individual variation in the crow calls of adults accounts for 44% of the measured variation in this call and indicates the potential for individual recognition, such as the recognition of parents' calls by their chicks, which we have previously documented. Temporal features may form the basis of recognition of adult calls in this species, given that they accounted for twice as much variation as frequency features among individual adults.
40306132|We studied the breeding ecology of the White-browed Tit-Warbler (
10.2307/1368185| Trends during summer and winter in body mass and composition, insulation, body temperature, and metabolism were investigated in seasonally acclimatized Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) from western Oregon to determine if patterns of acclimatization were similar to those of passerines inhabiting harsher winter habitats. Body mass was significantly increased in winter (19.4  0.2 g) compared to summer (17.8  0.1 g), primarily because of elevated stored fat. Lean dry mass was seasonally constant. Dry mass of contour plumage was measured as an index of insulation and increased by 31.7% in winter birds. Little seasonal variation in body temperature was apparent and there was no evidence of torpor and only a very mild regulated nocturnal hypothermia at either season. Standard metabolic rate was significantly elevated in winter-acclimatized juncos (1.02 ml O<sub>2</sub>/min, 3.45 ml O<sub>2</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>) relative to summer-acclimatized birds (0.87 ml O<sub>2</sub>/min, 3.16 ml O<sub>2</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>). In addition, winter juncos demonstrated an ability to decrease thermal conductance below thermoneutrality. Insofar as winter increments in insulation do not offset increased thermogenic requirements at temperatures characteristic of this season, winter-acclimatization in Dark-eyed Juncos from western Oregon is similar to that for passerines from more severe winter climates in that it is primarily a metabolic process. 
10.2307/1370472|Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism is thought to be partly influenced by density of the host species, although tests of host density are relatively rare. We examined parasitism rates relative to the density of individual host species and densities of coexisting host species. We monitored 392 nests among coexisting host species and measured their densities among six habitats on Fort Hood Military Reservation, Texas during 1991-1992 to test the hypothesis that coexisting species affect parasitism rates in the endangered Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapillus). Black-capped Vireos and White-eyed Vireos (V. griseus) suffered three to four times higher cowbird parasitism than Northern Cardinals (Cardinalis cardinalis) or Painted Buntings (Passerina ciris). After controlling for removal of female cowbirds, which has been conducted on the study site since 1988, parasitism rates in Black-capped Vireos were positively correlated with cumulative host density in general, and Northern Cardinal density in particular. Only density of Northern Cardinals explained a significant amount of variation in parasitism rates in Black-capped Vireos among sites. We suggest that cowbirds may be attracted to conspicuous species, such as cardinals, and that high densities of such species may negatively affect coexisting species by increasing probabilities of being parasitized. Vireo nests were characterized by less nest concealment, greater canopy cover, and more stems than other species. However, nest site and vegetation characteristics did not differ between parasitized and unparasitized nests for any species, suggesting habitat was unimportant to parasitism.
40072320|We investigated factors at multiple scales that might influence nest predation risk for Spotted Towhees (Pipilo maculatus) along the Sacramento River, California, within the context of large-scale riparian habitat restoration. We used the logistic-exposure method and Akaike's information criterion (AIC) for model selection to compare predator search, predator abundance, restoration, and temporal effects hypotheses. Our candidate models represented restoration, temporal, nest activity, nest concealment, agriculture, and flood effects. Restoration sites did function as breeding habitat, with nest survival comparable to mature forest sites and some young being produced. The best-supported models contained the covariates cowbird young in host nest and calendar date. All supported models contained the covariate cowbird young, the only variable with a strong effect. In contrast to our prediction, nest survival increased with cowbird young in the nest, implicating adult cowbirds in nest predation events. Nest survival declined throughout the breeding season and increased marginally with nest concealment. We calculated the finite rate of population increase (), using a model that incorporated nest success estimates for parasitized and unparasitized nests, double brooding, the locally observed cowbird parasitism rate for Spotted Towhees, number of young fledged from successful parasitized and unparasitized nests, adult survival and a range of juvenile survival values, estimated as percentages of adult survival. Values of  did not approach the replacement level of one, indicating that this population is not self-sustaining. We recommend extensive habitat restoration in the floodplain landscape, ideally in conjunction with cowbird control, to reduce nest predation and parasitism pressures. /// En el contexto de un esfuerzo de restauracin de ambientes ribereos de gran escala, investigamos los factores que pueden afectar el riesgo de la depredacin de nidos de Pipilo maculatus a diferentes escalas a lo largo del Ro Sacramento, California. Usamos el mtodo de expositin logstica y el procedimiento para selecctin de modelos basado en el criterio de informatin de Akaike para comparar las hiptesis de bsqueda de depredadores, abundancia de depredadores, efectos de restauracin y efectos temporales. Nuestros modelos candidatos representaron los efectos de restauracin, temporales, de la actividad de los nidos, de la ocultacin de los nidos, de la agricultura y de las inundaciones. Los sitios de restauracin s funcionaron como ambientes de reproductin: la supervivencia de los nidos en stos fue comparable a la de sitios ubicados en bosque maduro y se produjeron algunos juveniles. Los modelos ms robustos incluyeron las covariables de presencia de polluelos de Molothrus ater en el nido y la fecha. Todos los modelos apoyados incluyeron la covariable presencia de polluelos de M. ater, y sta fue la nica covariable con un efecto grande. En contraste con nuestra predictin, la supervivencia de los nidos fue mayor en nidos con polluelos de M. ater que en nidos sin stos, lo que involucra a los adultos de M. ater en los eventos de depredacin de nidos. La supervivencia de los nidos disminuy durante la temporada de nidificacin y se increment marginalmente con la ocultacin de los nidos. Calculamos la tasa finita de incremento de la poblacin () usando un modelo que incorpora estimados del xito reproductive para nidos parasitados y no parasitados, las nidadas dobles, la tasa de parasitismo sobre nidos de P. maculatus observada localmente, el nmero de volantones criados en nidos parasitados y no parasitados, la supervivencia de los adultos y un rango de valores de supervivencia de los juveniles estimado como porcentajes de la supervivencia de los adultos. Los valores de  no se aproximaron al nivel de reemplazo de uno, indicando que esta poblacin no puede sostenerse a s misma. Recomendamos una restauracin extensiva de la llanura de inundatin y un programa de control de la poblacin de M. ater para reducir las presiones de depredacin y de parasitismo.
10.2307/1368490|Egg data slips from museum collections were used to examine their reliability, especially bias in their seasonal distribution of egg-laying dates and clutch size and in overall mean clutch size of nidicolous altricial birds in North America. In general, egg data slips are useful. Suspect data, whether apparently falsified or not, are rare and usually detectable. Mean clutch sizes from egg data slips are usually not seriously biased upward, and are comparable with other nonoological sources. Thus, with some exceptions, Lack's (1946) criticism that mean clutch sizes may be inflated is greatly exaggerated. Similarly, Lack's criticism that the largest complete clutches in the middle of the nesting season are overrepresented lacks support. Lack's remaining criticism is generally true; early dates from egg data slips are overrepresented. For a further review of the value of egg data slips, see McNair (1985).
4151096| The relationship between the Brownheaded Cowbird (Molothrus ater) and its cavitynesting hosts has received little attention because of the assumption that cowbirds rarely parasitize these hosts. We tested the Eastern Bluebird (Sialia sialis), a host that is sometimes heavily parasitized by cowbirds, for egg ejection behavior. Bluebirds ejected 65% of experimentally added cowbird eggs (n = 20), but ejected no experimentally added conspecific eggs (n = 66). This suggests that cowbird parasitism, not conspeciflc brood parasitism, is the selective pressure responsible for egg ejection in this species. This level of rejection may be conservative because bluebirds nest in dark cavities, which may make cowbird eggs difficult to detect by bluebirds. /// La relacin entre Molothrus ater y sus hospederos que nidifican en cavidades ha recibido poca atencin como resultado de la suposicin de que M. ater rara vez parasita a estos hospederos. En este estudio probamos si Sialia sialis, un hospedero que algunas veces es parasitado intensamente por M. ater, exhibe comportamiento de rechazo de huevos. Los individuos rechazaron el 65% de los huevos de M. ater puestos experimentalmente en los nidos (n = 20), pero no rechazaron ninguno de los huevos coespecficos aadidos (n = 66). Esto sugiere que el parasitismo por parte de M. ater es la presin selectiva responsable por el rechazo de huevos en esta especie, no el parasitismo intraespecfico. Este nivel de rechazo de huevos podra ser conservador, pues S. sialis anida en cavidades oscuras, lo que podra hacer que los huevos de M. ater sean difciles de detectar. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120116|Sex ratios of adult birds are frequently skewed, but in few species is the sex ratio of offspring also skewed. Adult females, however, should modify their offspring's sex ratio and invest more in the sex with the greatest future reproductive potential. We investigated the relationship between nestlings' morphology, timing of reproduction, and sex ratios in broods of the Saltmarsh Sparrow (
10.2307/1368305|Actively feeding Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) and Redheads (Aythya americana) were collected from North Dakota wetlands during the 1979-1981 breeding seasons. Foods found within esophagi were analyzed on a wet-weight aggregate percent basis. Male and prelaying and laying female Ruddy Ducks consumed >90% invertebrates, primarily chironomids. Postlaying female Ruddy Ducks consumed 73% invertebrates. Male and female (prelaying, laying, and postlaying) Redheads were consistently more omnivorous, consuming 51-70% invertebrates (mostly chironomids) and 30-49% plant matter. Seeds of shallow marsh emergent plants were important in the diet of prelaying and laying female Redheads in 1979, a wet year. Female Redheads used temporally available seed resources in shallow marshes to meet energy requirements for foraging on invertebrates in deeper, more permanent wetlands. Continued losses of easily drained shallow wetlands may represent a serious impediment to our efforts to maintain current Redhead population levels.
1370517| During the breeding season, female and male Crested Auklets (Aethia cristatella; Alcidae) emit a pungent citruslike odor from their plumage. Previous experiments showed that captive birds oriented toward sources of the natural odor and toward isolates of its major constituents, cis-4 decenal and octanal, and avoided a noxious odor. In a blind experiment we manipulated odor on 12 life-sized, realistic Crested Auklet models (6 males, 6 females) to test for a social or sexual preference for the odor isolates in a natural setting. Based on the quantified behavior of 555 males and 280 females that approached the models at a breeding colony, we found no evidence for a sexual preference for models with added odor. Female auklets that approached male models with artificially added odor were no more likely to perform sexual displays than females that approached control models with less odor. Fewer males approached female models but the effect was the same: males that approached female models with artificially added odor were no more likely to perform sexual displays. However, males approached scented male models more closely and for longer duration than they approached control male models, and females approached scented male models more closely. Our findings confirm previous experiments with captive birds and further suggest that Crested Auklets' plumage odor serves at least a general social function. /// Durante la estacin reproductiva, el plumaje del macho y la hembra de Aethia cristatella (Alcidae) emite un olor picante-ctrico. Experimentos previos han demostrado que las aves en cautiverio se orientan hacia fuentes de olor natural y hacia extractos de sus principales constituyentes, cis-4 decano y octano, y evitan un olor nocivo. En un experimento a ciegas, manipulamos el olor en 12 modelos de tamao real de A. cristatella (6 machos y 6 hembras) para probar la preferencia sexual o social por los extractos en un ambiente natural. Basados en el comportamiento cuantitativo de 555 machos y 280 hembras que se acercaron a los modelos en la colonia reproductiva, no encontramos ninguna evidencia por una preferencia sexual por los modelos con el olor aadido. Las hembras de A. cristatella que se aproximaron a los modelos con el olor artificial aadido no presentaron una probabilidad mayor de realizar despliegues sexuales que las hembras que se acercaron a modelos con poco olor (control). Sin embargo, los machos se acercaron ms y por ms tiempo a los modelos de macho con olor que a los modelos de macho control, y las hembras se acercaron ms a los modelos de macho con olor. Nuestros resultados confirman experimentos previos en aves en cautiverio y sugieren que el olor del plumaje de A. cristatella tiene por lo menos una funcin social general. 
10.2307/1367470| Little Blue Herons (Florida caerulea) nest most often in association with the Schinus-Sabal community on the Alafia Banks, Florida. The number of active nests reaches two peaks during the breeding cycle; breeding time seems unaffected by cooler temperatures in the winter or spring. Peaks probably result from two different breeding populations and not from renesting. Mean clutch size is 2.91  0.09, hatching success is 92.1%, and nestling survivorship to two weeks of age is 53.0%. Egg loss and nestling mortality can be attributed to nestling starvation, nest collapse and predation. Little Blue Herons on the Alafia Banks lay smaller clutches and fledge fewer young compared to most populations studied in other areas. 
1370361| During systematic observations of Eastern Bluebird (Sialia sialis) parental behavior near Athens, Georgia, we observed adults placing fecal sacs on electric wires. Adults also placed fecal sacs on fence posts, tree branches, and utility poles. Females and males did not dispose of fecal sacs differently or remove fecal sacs at different rates. Adults carried fecal sacs 91  11 m before disposal, 21-52 m (95% CI) farther than their average distance from the nest. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that fecal sac removal reduces cues predators use to locate nests. /// Durante observaciones sistemticas del comportamiento parental de Sialia sialis en las cercanas de Athens, Georgia, observamos la colocacin de sacos fecales en cables elctricos. Los adultos tambin dejaron sacos fecales en postes de cercas, ramas de rboles y postes de alumbrado. No se encontraron diferencias entre machos y hembras en la tasa de colocacin de sacos fecales ni en la manera como dispusieron de los mismos. Los adultos viajaron con los sacos fecales en promedio 91  11 m antes de abandonarlos, unos 21-52 m (intervalo de confianza del 95%) ms lejos que la distancia promedio desde el nido. Estos resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis que la remocin de los sacos fecales reduce seales que los predadores podran usar para localizar los nidos. 
1370123| We investigated three types of decisions made by Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) in moving between nearshore feeding and offshore resting areas: when to move, whether to move synchronously, and whether to form dense flocks on the roosting grounds. We used the spawning of Pacific herring (Clupea pallasi) as a natural food-supplementation experiment. Birds arrived at nearshore feeding areas a few minutes later and departed almost an hour earlier relative to sunrise and sunset when spawn was available than before and after. Cloud cover and high winds resulted in earlier departures, especially during spawning. Arriving, departing, and offshore groups consisted most frequently of two ducks, and birds showed little tendency to synchronize movements or to form dense flocks when resting. Results indicate that Harlequin Ducks avoid crepuscular and nocturnal periods near shore when not constrained by food availability and the length of daylight in which to feed. /// Investigamos tres tipos de decisiones hechas por Histrionicus histrionicus (Pato Arlequn) al moverse entre reas de alimentacin cercanas a la costa y reas de reposo mar adentro: cundo moverse, si se mueven de modo sincrnico, y si forman bandadas densas en las reas de reposo. Utilizamos el desove del arenque del Pacfico (Clupea pallasi) como un experimento de suplemento de alimento natural. En relacin al amanecer y anochecer, las aves llegaron a las reas de alimentacin cercanas a la costa unos minutos despus y se fueron casi una hora ms temprano cuando los huevos de peces estuvieron disponibles que cuando no lo estuvieron, ya sea antes o despus. Cobertura de nubes y fuertes vientos trajeron aparejadas partidas ms tempranas, especialmente durante la etapa de desove. Los grupos que llegaban, partan y los que se encontraban mar adentro estuvieron en su mayora conformados por dos patos, y las aves en general no tendieron a sincronizar sus movimientos o a formar grupos densos durante el reposo. Los resultados indican que H. histrionicus evita permanecer cerca de la costa durante perodos crepusculares y nocturnos cuando no se haya limitado por la disponibilidad de alimentos y por la cantidad de horas de luz para alimentarse. 
4151021|Hermit Warblers (Dendroica occidentalis) sing distinct dialects of type I songs, the most common song before pairing. Eight dialects were identified and described in a 22 900 km
10.1525/cond.2012.110091|Many birds, notably colonial nesting seabirds, use public information (the visual, auditory, and olfactory presence of breeding conspecifics) when selecting nesting habitat. When colonies are extirpated, social cues that indicate nesting sites' quality are lost. In the Aleutian Islands, Alaska, storm-petrel populations were destroyed by introduced arctic foxes (
10.2307/1369611| During July 1984-February 1987, we measured the duration and seasonal changes in intensity of prebasic molt in Canada Geese (Branta canadensis interior) of the Mississippi Valley Population (MVP). Temporal and geographic variations in molt intensity were examined in relation to lipid and protein reserve dynamics and the chronology of annual events. Wing- and body-molt intensities were greatest before fall migration, but limited body molt overlapped migration and continued into fall. Final stages of molt progressed with declining intensity through winter. Only the nesting season (May-June) was entirely free of molt. Molt in individual geese may have required 8 months (July-March) in at least 60% of the population. Temporal and geographic variation in molt intensity were associated with differences in lipid mass, but carcass protein had little apparent relationship with molt intensity. There was no evidence of net catabolism of nutrient reserves between hatching, wing molt, and post-molting periods. Lipid masses of breeding females and non-breeding geese declined during wing molt. Protein masses declined during wing molt only in breeding and non-breeding males, due to atrophy of breast muscles associated with flightlessness. Seasonal changes in molt intensity and lipid reserves indicated that geese allocated energy to emphasize molting before fall migration, and nutrient reserve deposition thereafter. The largest nutritional costs of molting probably were incurred during July-November. We propose that rate, intensity, and duration of body molt were influenced by the amount of productive energy geese were able to allocate to feather growth, without compromising replenishment of nutrient reserves after breeding or the deposition of reserves before winter. The simple, single molt of Canada Geese provides greater latitude in adjusting nutritional demands to environmental conditions than is possible for ducks that molt twice annually. 
10.2307/1367344|The Sharpbill (Oxyruncus cristatus) is a Neotropical suboscine passerine whose affinities have been unclear. The tyrant flycatchers, cotingas, and manakins of the superfamily Tyrannoidea have been suggested as the closest relatives of the Sharpbill. DNA-DNA hybridization comparisons between the radioiodine-labeled single-copy DNA of the Sharpbill and the DNAs of cotingas, manakins, tyrant flycatchers, and representatives of the other Neotropical superfamily, the Furnarioidea, indicate that Oxyruncus is a cotinga. We place it in the subfamily Cotinginae, family Tyrannidae.
1370649| In a coevolutionary arms race between a brood parasite and its host, both species evolve adaptations and counteradaptations, such as egg mimicry and egg discrimination. The Yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella) is a minor host of the Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) in Europe. We studied egg discrimination in the Yellowhammer in the Czech Republic where it is parasitized only occasionally. To investigate host responses to parasitic eggs, we added either a nonmimetic (blue) or a mimetic (conspecific) egg to 50 nests. The hosts rejected nonmimetic eggs at a higher rate (92%) than mimetic eggs (32%). Neither intraclutch variation nor contrast between mimetic and host eggs had a significant effect on rejection behavior. There is no evidence for intraspecific brood parasitism in this species. The ability to reject mimetic eggs has therefore most likely evolved as an adaptation against interspecific brood parasitism and may be the reason why the Yellowhammer is parasitized only occasionally. /// En una carrera armamentista co-evolutiva entre un ave parsita y su hospedador es previsible que ambas especies desarrollen adaptaciones y contraadaptaciones tales como el ovomimetismo y la ovodiscriminacin. Emberiza citrinella es un husped menor de Cuculus canorus en Europa. Estudiamos la capacidad discriminatoria de los huevos, por parte de Emberiza citrinella, en la Repblica Checa, donde la especie es parasitada slo ocasionalmente. Con objeto de investigar la respuesta del hospedador a los huevos parsitos, aadimos un huevo no mimtico (azul) o uno mimtico (coespecfico) a 50 nidos. El hospedador rechaz los huevos no mimticos en una proporcin ms elevada (92%) que los mimticos (32%). Ni la variacin de la apariencia del huevo dentro de la puesta, ni el contraste entre los huevos mimticos y los del hospedador, parecen tener algn efecto significativo en el comportamiento de rechazo. No hay evidencias de la existencia de parasitismo intraespecfico en esta especie. Por tanto, la habilidad de Emberiza citrinella para rechazar huevos mimticos probablemente ha evolucionado como una adaptacin contra el parasitismo interespecfico y esta puede ser la razn de por qu la especie es parasitada slo de manera ocasional. 
1370373| The piprid genus Manacus is composed of four allospecies that are readily distinguishable by differences in male plumage color. Electrophoretic data for two populations of each of the four forms plus seven outgroup piprid taxa were collected from 32 isozyme loci and used to infer phylogenetic relationships. Each Manacus form was monophyletic, with the exception of M. manacus, in which the trans-Andean (west of the Andes) population was sister to M. vitellinus, rather than to its conspecific cis-Andean (east of the Andes) population. This controversial relationship, supported by the synapomorphic allele PGM-2<sup>b</sup> as well as allele frequencies at ADA, GOT-1 and LGG, is consistent with general biogeographic patterns in the region, but indicates that male plumage color is an unreliable taxonomic marker. Reconstruction of male plumage color on the tree confirms that gold plumage is a derived state in M. vitellinus, a finding consistent with the possibility that gold plumage is an evolutionary novelty in vitellinus which has spread recently under positive selection. Among piprids, there was strong support for a group composed of Antilophia, Chiroxiphia, and Corapipo, and for a group composed of Pipra mentalis, P. fasciicauda, and Dixiphia pipra. Manacus is more closely related to the P. mentalis + P. fasciicauda + D. pipra group. The isozymes supported Lepidothrix as the basal taxon of those examined. /// El gnero Manacus se compone de cuatro aloespecies que son fcilmente distinguibles por diferencias en el color del plumaje del macho. Datos electroforticos para dos poblaciones de cada una de las cuatro formas, ms siete taxa de grupos externos de ppridos (outgroups) fueron colectados de 32 loci de isoenzimas y fueron utilizados para inferir relaciones filogenticas. Cada forma de Manacus fue monofiltica, con excepcin de M. manacus, en el cual la poblacin trans-Andina (oeste de los Andes) fu cercana a M. vitellinus, y no a la poblacin conespecfica cis-Andina (oriente de los Andes). Esta relacin controversial, soportada por el alelo sinapomrfico PGM-2<sup>b</sup> al igual que por las frecuencias allicas en ADA, GOT-1 y LGG, es consistente con los patrones biogeogrficos generales en la regin, pero indica que el caracter color del plumaje del macho no es un marcador taxonmico confiable. La reconstruccin del color del plumaje del macho en el rbol confirma que el plumaje dorado es un estado derivado en M. vitellinus, un hallazgo consistente con la posibilidad de que el plumaje dorado sea una novedad evolutiva en vitellinus que se ha dispersado recientemente bajo seleccin positiva. Entre los ppridos, se observ evidencia fuerte para un grupo compuesto por Antilophia, Chiroxiphia y Corapipo, y tambin para un grupo compuesto de Pipra mentalis, P. fasciicauda y Dixiphia pipra. Manacus est ms estrechamente relacionado con el grupo de P. mentalis, P. fasciicauda y D. pipra. Las isoenzimas mostraron a Lepidothrix como el taxn basal entre todos los examinados. 
10.2307/1368767|The Epaulet Oriole (Icterus cayanensis) imitated calls of seven species of birds (models) at six localities in northeastern Argentina. The models occurred in the same habitats. At one site 92% of 61 tape recorded calls were imitations. Calls of hawks, alarm calls, and mobbing calls were frequently copied. Both sexes imitated year round. Epaulet Orioles reacted to playbacks of conspecifics, even those from distant localities. Models, however, were seldom attracted to playbacks and/or to the vocalizing orioles. The available data is consistent with the idea that mimicry is used as an "interspecific threat" directed to potential predators.
10.2307/1368354|Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) possess a repertoire of two song types, the bounce and the whinny. We examined (1) seasonal variation in the use of these songs in central Kentucky and (2) the responses of male and female screech-owls to the playback of bounce songs. The spontaneous use of bounce songs increased during February and March, declined in April and May, increased again in June and continued through November. The spontaneous use of whinny songs increased dramatically during August and September and continued through November. Playback experiments revealed that (1) males uttered significantly more bounce songs than did females, and (2) owls responding with bounce songs were located significantly closer to the speaker than were those responding with whinny songs. Our results suggest, therefore, that bounce songs are directed to nearby conspecifics while whinny songs are directed to more distant individuals. Based on patterns of seasonal change in spontaneous use, we tentatively conclude that bounce songs are used in both aggressive and nonaggressive contexts while whinny songs are used in aggressive contexts.
10.2307/1370188|We studied adult survival of the Black Guillemot (Cepphus grylle) based on a capture-recapture data set collected in 1974-1995 in a colony in western Iceland. A total of 1,483 individuals were observed once or more as breeders; some of these were local or immigrant recruits. There was no evidence that adult survival varied over time; the estimated constant survival was 0.870 (95% confidence limits 0.855-0.884). This was similar to previous estimates for this species, but precision was very high. Because many guillemots drowned in fishing nets near our study site, we attempted to model survival as a function of local fishery effort; we were unable to do this because of excessive variation in capture effort. The final model also included a separate survival estimate for the first year after the first capture as breeder. This apparent first-year survival declined over time from 0.900 to 0.562. Both the lower apparent first-year survival and the negative trend were likely due to the presence of low-capturability individuals in the data set. We suggest that some birds were very difficult to capture because their nests were in shorebird or tern territories. The lower adult survival of Black Guillemots compared to other Atlantic alcids (murres, puffins) is presumably related to their inshore feeding habits, which also allow this species to raise two chicks to fledging.
10.2307/1368559|I compared productivity, habitat, and diet of breeding Harris' (Parabuteo unicinctus) and Swainson's hawks (Buteo swainsoni) to examine predictions that cooperatively breeding birds should produce fewer young and be more specialized in their use of habitat or food than closely related noncooperatively breeding species. Reproductive success of Harris' Hawk (1.73 young/year) and Swainson's Hawk (1.67) breeding units was similar. Harris' Hawks tended to exploit habitats with greater mean densities of large mesquites, less mean grass cover, and more exposed ground than Swainson's Hawks; but both species used a broad range of the habitats available. Swainson's Hawks were opportunistic generalists taking the most available prey, while Harris' Hawks were relative specialists on larger mammals and some birds.My data do not support habitat saturation or resource localization as important to the evolution of cooperative breeding in the Harris' Hawk.
10.1525/cond.2010.090137|While diving, small alcids appear wet, suggesting that their feathers repel water poorly. Nevertheless, once wet, their plumage resists water penetration effectively. This study's objective was to evaluate the effect of feather wetting on the critical penetration pressure of air (maximum pressure for resistance to air penetration,
10.2307/1368058|We propose that European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) leave space for intraspecific parasitic eggs in order to prevent parasitism from producing an overcrowded clutch. For this hypothesis to be applicable, a species must have altricial young, determinate laying, and a high frequency of intraspecific brood parasitism. The hypothesis predicts that (1) host clutches will be smaller than would be predicted were only productivity considered, (2) brood parasitism will only moderately depress host reproductive success (RS), and (3) the actual frequency of net brood parasitism will exceed the threshold frequency (where the alternative tactics of leaving space and not leaving space produce equal results). Two models are presented for locating the threshold frequency: the either-or model and the graded model. The hypothesis was tested on early clutches of starlings in New Jersey, using a combination of nest censusing, weighing, electrophoretic analysis, and analysis of postovulatory follicles. The results were consistent with all predictions. (1) Clutch size five (c/5) was the most common but c/6 was the most productive while c/7 was overcrowded. (2) Parasitism had only a slight dampening effect on host RS. (3) At least 33.3% of clutches suffered net brood parasitism: 21.2% suffered the net addition of one egg while 12.1% suffered the net addition of two or more. These rates are above the threshold frequencies generated by both models. Five alternative explanations for our results were explored but none fit the data as well as the parasitism insurance hypothesis.
10.1525/cond.2011.100038|Although some of the components of egg-size variation in birds have been studied, there is a lack of approaches in which phenotypic variation is both partitioned and its causes are analyzed. We partitioned and analyzed the phenotypic variation in egg size in 1588 eggs from 572 clutches of the Imperial Cormorant (
4151014| We investigated the departure, transient movement, and local settlement stages of natal dispersal in a population of Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) on the Kaibab Plateau of northern Arizona. The study included 614 color-banded juveniles produced at 555 nests during 1991-2003, 89 of which were radio-marked during 1998- 2001. Radio-marked juveniles initiated dispersal between 71 and 103 days posthatching, and spent between 33 and 66 days in the natal territory after fledging. Our best-fitting proportional hazards models predicted the timing of dispersal as a function of annual differences in the density of primary bird and mammal prey species, weather conditions, and natal brood size. Once dispersal was initiated, most juveniles moved into the more open habitats that surrounded the study area and few eventually returned to breed; first-year fidelity to the local natal population was 28, and only 69 (11) color-banded juveniles had entered the territorial population by 2004. Median natal dispersal distance on the Kaibab Plateau was 15.0 km (range = 0.1-58.1 km), a distance equivalent to about four times the diameter of an average breeding territory (3.8 km). Local settlement behavior of Northern Goshawks appeared to be driven by a combination of intraspecific competition for a limited number of breeding opportunities and inbreeding avoidance. However, much of the natal dispersal process operated at broad spatial scales beyond our study population, indicating a potentially high level of demographic connectivity among naturally fragmented breeding populations in the American Southwest. /// Investigamos la partida, el movimiento de paso y las etapas del asentamiento local de la dispersion natal en una poblacin de Acc4iiter gentilis en la Meseta Kaibab del norte de Arizona. El estudio incluy 614 juveniles marcados con anillos de color producidos en 555 nidos entre los aos 1991 y 2003, 89 de los cuales fueron marcados con radios entre 1998 y 2001. Los juveniles marcados con radio iniciaron la dispersin entre 71 y 103 dIas luego de eclosionar, y pasaron entre 33 y 66 das en el territorio natal luego de emplumar. Nuestros modelos de riesgo proporcional con el mejor ajuste predijeron el momento de la dispersin como una funcin de las diferencias anuales en la densidad de las principales especies de presas, tanto ayes como mamferos, de las condiciones del tiempo y el tamao de la nidada. Una vez iniciada la dispersin, la mayora de los juveniles se mudaron a los ambientes ms abiertos que rodearon al area de estudio y pocos eventualmente regresaron a criar. La fidelidad del primer ao a la poblacin local natal fue de 28% y slo 69 (1 1%) juveniles marcados con anillos de colores entraron en la poblacin territorial hasta 2004. La distancia mediana de dispersin natal en la Meseta Kaibab fue de 15.0 km (rango = 0.1-58.1 km), una distancia equivalente a aproximadamente cuatro veces el dimetro de un territorio de cra promedio (3.8 km). El comportamiento de asentamiento local de A. gentilis parece estar condicionado por una combinacin entre competencia intraespecfica por un nmero limitado de oportunidades de cra y evitar el entrecruzamiento. Sin embargo, gran parte del proceso de dispersin natal ocurri a escalas espaciales mayores que la de nuestra poblacin de estudio, indicando un nivel potencialmente alto de conectividad demogrfica entre las poblaciones de crIa naturalmente fragmentadas en el sudoeste de los Estados Unidos de America del Norte. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090167|Successful foraging by avian predators is influenced largely by prey availability, which encompasses not only the density of prey but also its vulnerability to capture. For wading birds (Ciconiiformes), habitat features such as water depth and density of vegetation are thought to affect the vulnerability of their aquatic prey. In January and April 2007 we experimentally manipulated the depth of water and density of submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) in enclosures (10  10 m) with equal densities of fish to determine their effects on wading birds' selection of foraging habitat and foraging success. Analysis of the results with Manly's selection index showed that wading birds preferred habitat with shallow water and SAV. The two habitat components had little effect on the birds' foraging success, however, as capture rate did not vary with water depth or SAV density. Capture efficiency did not vary by SAV density and was actually lower in shallow water, contrary to our expectations. Our results suggest that birds selected habitat on the basis of environmental cues such as water depth and SAV but that these factors did not affect foraging success strongly. We hypothesize that wading birds were selecting habitat with shallow water and SAV because of an anticipated benefit to foraging through elevated density and vulnerability of prey, but the relatively high and uniform density of prey stocked in the enclosures, as well as the scale of the enclosures, effectively equalized the vulnerability of prey across treatments.
10.2307/1368724| Red-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon rubricauda) breeding on Christmas Island, Central Pacific Ocean, exhibited stable preferences for nest sites over time, such that vegetative characteristics associated with active nests were similar in 1980 and 1984. Before the El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO, 1980) the vegetative structure of randomly placed points differed from that of actual nests. After the ENSO (1984) the vegetative structure at randomly placed points resembled that of actual nests, suggesting that the overall availability of preferred sites may have increased. Records of the thermal environment surrounding actual nests and other points within the same shrub suggest that shifts in vegetative structure of nesting habitat created a favorable thermal environment for tropicbird chicks. This post-ENSO shift in habitat structure was accompanied by an increase in the number of active nests at the Y-site colony relative to pre-ENSO breeding seasons. These data support the hypothesis that suitable nest sites may limit short-term reproductive opportunities of tropicbirds, hence influence the rate of population growth and time course of recovery from catastrophic events such as ENSO. 
10.2307/1367942|We studied the extent to which male American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) share songs in their repertoires. Examining samples of songs from three locations in New Brunswick, Canada, we found significant heterogeneity in the frequencies of the different songs across the locations. The extent to which neighbors shared songs related to increasing repertoire size (mean 4.4 songs/adult male). In the relatively larger sample at St. Andrews, neighboring adult males shared significantly more song types (P < 0.05) than did adult males chosen at random. However, this result applied only to individuals with intermediate-sized repertoires (four songs). Subadult males at St. Andrews shared as much with neighboring adult males as did adult males among themselves. In the small, island population at Back Bay, adult males shared noticeably more songs than at St. Andrews. We attribute the difference in degree of song sharing to demographic aspects, including patterns of settlement, interacting with tendencies to copy songs. Therefore, any so-called "dialects" in songs of American Redstarts seem more as "epiphenomena" resulting from competition between males rather than as indications of local adaptations of males.
10.1525/cond.2011.090206|Animals select habitat to satisfy life-history requirements, yet few habitat-selection studies consider multiple factors, especially food. Because resources vary in abundance and quality across different spatial scales or habitat types, selected habitat features may also vary, making habitat selection incongruent. Using an information-theoretical approach, we assessed whether Phainopeplas (
10.2307/1367503|Three sympatric thrashers, the Brown, the Long-billed, and the Curve-billed (Toxostoma spp.), were studied during the winters of 1977 and 1978 in San Patricio County, Texas. The species avoided competition primarily by occupying different habitats. Brown Thrashers wintered abundantly within riparian woodlands, Long-billed Thrashers stayed mostly within shrub cover of chaparral, and Curve-billed Thrashers inhabited the more open portions of the chaparral. All three species foraged mostly on the ground and were omnivorous. The foraging behavior of Brown and Long-billed thrashers was similar (sweeping debris aside with bill) and both fed only within cover. Curve-billed Thrashers differed from the other thrashers in foraging techniques (reliance upon digging), diet, and in feeding frequently outside of shrub/tree cover. Brown and Long-billed thrashers maintained intra- and inter-specific winter territories. Both were highly philopatric, with 27% of the color-marked Brown Thrashers and 48% of the color-marked Long-billed Thrashers returning in 1978 to their 1977 winter territories. Brown Thrashers apparently were superior competitors, mostly excluding Long-billed Thrashers from arthropod/gastropod-rich riparian habitats.
1370735| We evaluated seasonal changes in cold tolerance, basal metabolic rate (BMR), and summit metabolic rate (M
10.2307/1369635|I assessed the effects of pedestrians on the distribution of forest bird species in wooded parks in the city of Madrid within and between fragments. Within fragments, increasing levels of pedestrians reduced species richness and overall abundance of individuals within circular plots. The abundance of foraging individuals of four species (Magpies Pica pica, Blackbirds Turdus merula, Starlings Sturnus unicolor, and Woodpigeon Columba palumbus) diminished when pedestrians walked near sampling plots, as well as their breeding densities in relation to increasing disturbance levels. Between fragments, after controlling for fragment size effects, pedestrian rate was negatively related to species richness in two breeding seasons. Species turnover was positively associated to mean pedestrian rate and inter-annual variability in pedestrian rate. At the species level, pedestrian rate negatively affected the probabilities of fragment occupation of 16 species beyond the effects of fragment size and isolation. Locally, the short-term behavioral responses to visitors may reduce the suitability of highly disturbed parks in such a way as to decrease breeding densities and the probabilities of fragment occupation and persistence. The effects of human disturbance in fragmented landscapes should be incorporated into management decisions as another relevant factor that may reduce habitat quality.
40306197|After spreading across North America, West Nile virus (WNV) arrived in the Sacramento Valley of California in 2004 and began killing many corvids. To estimate the regional effect of WNV on corvids and other birds, we reinitiated a road survey along six routes totaling 203 km in the Sacramento Valley. We surveyed these transects 30 times in fall and winter from 1990 to 1995 and repeated the surveys each fall and winter from 2005 to 2008. By 200708, annual maximum counts of the Yellow-billed Magpie, American Crow, and Loggerhead Shrike had declined 83%, 63%, and 63%, respectively, from those of the 1990s. These species declined in riparian and rice-cultivation areas, most substantially outside Yolo County. The magpie declined 90% along our routes north of Yolo County, causing us concern for the viability of the species. After a lag, the crow began declining quickly in 2007. We recommend the Yellow-billed Magpie be given special status. Also, searches for Yellow-billed Magpies should be extended across the species' range to find locations with sizable numbers, and experimentally designed mosquito control should be considered in breeding areas, especially in areas of high densities of
4122505| We used infrared cameras to accurately record the circadian provisioning behaviors of nesting Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia) in southern Saskatchewan, Canada. We monitored 19 nests over three years and recorded 4675 prey deliveries. We found a sex-based difference in foraging behavior: males hunted vertebrates during crepuscular periods, and females hunted insects during diurnal periods. Males delivered between 82% and 96% of all vertebrate prey depending on the stage of the nest. Males delivered at least 90% of all insects during early nest stages, after which females delivered an average of 76% of the insects. The rate of vertebrate deliveries increased from 1.3 to 7.7 per 24 hr as the summer progressed, and the number of insect deliveries increased from less than 1 to 18.6 per 24 hr. Vertebrates comprised 98%-99% of prey biomass delivered until females began delivering insects, but even then vertebrates still comprised 94% of prey biomass. Insects were consistently delivered at the highest rate during the day and vertebrates were consistently delivered at the highest rates during the dusk and dawn periods. /// Usamos cmaras infrarrojas para registrar con precisin los comportamientos de aprovisionamiento circadianos de Athene cunicularia en el sur de Saskatchewan, Canad. Seguimos 19 nidos durante tres aos y registramos 4675 entregas de presas. Encontramos diferencias entre sexos en el comportamiento de forrajeo: los machos cazaron vertebrados durante los periodos crepusculares y las hembras cazaron insectos durante los periodos diurnos. Los machos entregaron entre 82% y 96% de todas las presas de vertebrados, dependiendo de la etapa del nido. Los machos entregaron al menos el 90% de todos los insectos durante los estadios iniciales del nido, despus de lo cual las hembras entregaron en promedio el 76% de los insectos. La tasa de entrega de vertebrados increment entre 1.3 y 7.7 por 24 h a medida que avanz el verano, y el nmero de entregas de insectos aument desde menos de 1 a 18.6 por 24 h. Los vertebrados representaron entre el 98% y el 99% de la biomasa de presas entregada hasta que las hembras comenzaron a entregar insectos, pero incluso en este momento los vertebrados todava representaron el 94% de la biomasa de las presas. De modo consistente, los insectos fueron entregados a la mayor tasa durante el da y los vertebrados a las mayores tasas durante el anochecer y el amanecer. 
10.2307/1369395|Interspecific nesting assemblages may result from independent settlement by individuals or groups of each species in the same limited habitat, or association with other species may be actively sought. Although Least Bitterns (Ixobrychus exilis) often nest solitarily, in a South Carolina impoundment they frequently associated with colonies of Boat-tailed grackles (Quiscalus major). Bittern nests inside and outside colonies occupied the same microhabitats. However, more bitterns nested in grackle colonies than in equal-sized areas of equivalent habitat in the same marsh. In one of two years, colonial bitterns had higher reproductive success than bitterns nesting outside colonies. We conclude that Least Bitterns actively associate with grackles. Possible reasons for the association of bitterns with grackles are as follows (1) Critical density effect: at high population densities, the advantages of dispersed (cryptic) nesting are lost. Bitterns switching to nest in groups may experience little reduction in reproductive success, relative to those nesting solitarily. (2) Vigilance and mobbing: grackles provide early warning, and actively exclude predatory birds from colonies. Bitterns nesting among grackles appeared to incur few costs, such as may result from competition for food or from intracolony predation.
10.2307/1369019|We measured growth parameters of Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) chicks at two contrasting colonies: Bird Island, Massachusetts, and Falkner Island, Connecticut, from 1987 through 1990. Differences in growth parameters among individual chicks are used to explore differences in parental performance, whereas differences in average growth parameters among colonies and years are used to explore differences in average environmental conditions. Chicks were marked at hatching and weighed at one- or two-day intervals. For each chick that survived to fledging, we calculated two measures of growth: linear growth rate and asymptotic mass. There were no significant differences between growth parameters of first-hatched chicks in broods of one and two. Both measures of growth were significantly lower and more variable for second-hatched chicks than for first-hatched chicks. Both measures were significantly positively related to egg mass and negatively related to hatch date. After controlling for these variables, differences between colonies and among years were relatively small and inconsistent. Mean survival of second-hatched chicks was positively correlated with the mean growth rate of survivors across colonies and years. These findings are consistent with a general hypothesis that growth of chicks reflects individual parental performance and parental quality.
40072387|Environmental light intensity is known to exert a strong influence on antipredation behavior by influencing prey vulnerability. However, an association between low light levels and increased predation risk is not well established empirically. For species that rely on visual detection of their predators, low light levels can hinder predator detection and thus increase predation risk. We examined the foraging behavior of migrating Semipalmated Sandpipers (
1370706| We used infrared imaging to test whether the energetic cost of begging is observable in changes in body surface temperature (T<sub>s</sub>) of young House Sparrow nestlings (Passer domesticus), and whether T<sub>s</sub> is affected by nestling rank. Begging had a mixed effect on T<sub>s</sub>, increasing it slightly at first, but decreasing it when hungry nestlings begged more vigorously. This mixed effect may result from heat production being quickly offset when begging posture and movement enhance heat loss through the skin, and suggests that the energetic cost of begging cannot be inferred from thermal imaging. The analysis of T<sub>s</sub> in relation to nestling rank showed that although low-ranked nestlings maintained lower T<sub>s</sub> than their larger siblings, their T<sub>s</sub> was higher than expected for their body mass. This suggests that nestlings of a lower rank may gain heat from their larger, more developed nestmates. /// Utilizamos imgenes infrarrojas de pichones jvenes de Passer domesticus para probar si es posible observar el costo energtico de solicitar en los cambios de la temperatura de la superficie del cuerpo (T<sub>s</sub>), y si T<sub>s</sub> est afectada por el rango del pichn en la nidada. El comportamiento de solicitar tuvo un efecto mixto sobre T<sub>s</sub>, aumentndola levemente al principio, pero disminuyndola cuando los polluelos hambrientos solicitaron con mayor vigorosidad. Este efecto mixto puede deberse a que la produccin de calor es rpidamente contrarestada por una prdida de calor a travs de la piel dada por la postura de solicitar y el movimiento, sugiriendo que no es posible inferir el costo energtico de solicitar a partir de tcnicas de imagen trmica. El anlisis de T<sub>s</sub> en relacin al rango de los pichones en la nidada mostr que a pesar de que los pichones de bajo rango mantuvieron T<sub>s</sub> ms bajas que sus hermanos de mayor tamao, la T<sub>s</sub> de los pichones ms pequeos fue ms alta de lo esperado de acuerdo a su tamao corporal. Esto sugiere que los pichones de menor rango pueden ganar calor de sus compaeros de nido ms desarrollados y de mayor tamao. 
1370701| Recent analyses of the impact of cowbird parasitism on host productivity suggest that while parasitism reduces productivity on a per-nest basis, the ability of pairs to desert parasitized nests and renest allows them to achieve productivity comparable to that of unparasitized pairs. This has implications for the management of several endangered species that are highly vulnerable to parasitism and consequently the target of cowbird control programs. I calculated seasonal nesting effort (number of nests per pair) and productivity of 568 pairs of Least Bell's Vireos (Vireo bellii pusillus) monitored over 11 years at the San Luis Rey River in San Diego County, California (where cowbird trapping has reduced, but not eliminated, parasitism), assigning pairs to one of three groups: (1) deserters, (2) rescued (parasitized pairs with nests "rescued" from probable failure by the removal of cowbird eggs), and (3) unparasitized. Parasitized pairs attempted significantly more nests per season than did unparasitized pairs, with deserters producing more nests than rescued pairs. However, productivity of deserting pairs was significantly lower than that of both rescued and unparasitized pairs, largely because subsequent nests of deserting pairs were also parasitized. Seasonal productivity of rescued and unparasitized pairs was comparable, indicating that in this species, reduction of cowbird impacts through nest manipulation to remove cowbird eggs is effective. Desertion by Least Bell's Vireos does not appear to be an adequate natural defense against parasitism, suggesting the need for continued cowbird control while vireo populations are re-established. /// Anlisis recientes del impacto del parasitismo de Molothrus ater sobre la productividad de los hospederos sugieren que mientras el parasitismo reduce la productividad por nido, la habilidad de las parejas parasitadas de abandonar los nidos parasitados y de reanidar les permite obtener una productividad comparable a la de parejas no parasitadas. Esto tiene consecuencias para el manejo de especies amenazadas muy vulnerables al parasitismo, que son el foco de muchos programas de control de M. ater. Calcul el esfuerzo de anidacin por temporada (nmero de nidos por pareja) y productividad de 568 parejas de Vireo bellii pusillus monitoreadas durante 11 aos en el ro San Luis Rey, San Diego, California (donde la captura de M. ater ha reducido pero no eliminado el parasitismo). Las parejas fueron asignadas a tres grupos: (1) desertoras, (2) rescatadas (parejas parasitadas "rescatadas" mediante la remocin de huevos de M. ater) y (3) no parasitadas. Las parejas parasitadas intentaron un nmero significativamente mayor de nidos por temporada que las no parasitadas, y las desertoras produjeron ms nidos que las rescatados. Sin embargo, la productividad de las parejas desertoras fue significativamente menor que la de las parejas rescatadas o las no parasitadas, principalmente debido a que en los siguientes intentos de las parejas desertoras los nidos tambin fueron parasitados. La productividad por temporada fue similar entre las parejas rescatadas y las no parasitadas, indicando que la extraccin de huevos de M. ater es una prctica efectiva que reduce el impacto del parasitismo. La desercin por parte de V. b. pusillus no parece ser una defensa natural adecuada contra el parasitismo, sugeriendo que debe continuarse el control de M. ater mientras se reestablece la poblacin de V. b. pusillus. 
1370030| In the winters of 1998-1999 and 1999-2000, we tracked 67 radio-marked Dunlin (Calidris alpina) throughout the complex agricultural landscape of the Willamette Valley of Oregon. Individual birds were tracked across 8-week sampling periods and indicated a high degree of regional fidelity throughout the three winter sampling periods. Birds exhibited varied degrees of fidelity to specific wetland sites and were detected at an average of nine different sites. Distances traveled within the region were extensive and greatest during late winter. Females ranged farther from capture sites than males, and movement from capture sites for all birds was greatest during late winter. Mean home-range size (95% minimum convex polygons) of birds was 258.2  44.8 km<sup>2</sup> (SE) and was greatest during late winter. Diurnal roosts were identified as centers of activities and daily movements were most pronounced during crepuscular periods. These data represent the most extensive documentation of winter movements for a shorebird at an inland site. Findings indicate Dunlin were winter residents, and extensive local movements suggest a high degree of functional connectivity of habitats. /// En los inviernos de 1998-1999 y 1999-2000, seguimos 67 individuos de Calidris alpina marcados con transmisores a travs del complejo paisaje agrcola del Valle Willamette, Oregon. Seguimos aves individuales a lo largo de perodos de 8 semanas de muestreo, que indicaron un alto nivel de fidelidad regional a travs de los tres perodos invernales muestreados. Las aves exhibieron diversos grados de fidelidad a sitios especficos de los humedales y fueron detectadas en promedio en nueve sitios diferentes. Las distancias recorridas dentro de la regin fueron grandes y mayores durante el final del invierno. Las hembras se desplazaron a mayores distancias desde los sitios de captura que los machos, y el movimiento de todas las aves desde los sitios de captura fue mayor durante el final del invierno. El tamao medio del rea de hogar (95% de polgonos convexos mnimos) de las aves fue 258.2  44.8 km<sup>2</sup> (EE) y fue mayor durante el final del invierno. Los dormideros diurnos fueron identificados como los centros de actividad de las aves y los movimientos diarios fueron ms pronunciados durante los perodos crepusculares. Estos datos representan la documentacin ms completa sobre movimientos invernales para un ave playera en un sitio tierra adentro. Los hallazgos indican que los individuos de C. alpina fueron residentes invernales, y los extensos movimientos locales sugieren un alto nivel de conectividad funcional entre los ambientes. 
10.2307/1370316|We surveyed 1,115 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA sequence from three gene regions in 66 Curve-billed Thrashers (Toxostoma curvirostre) taken from throughout their range. We found that populations sorted unambiguously into three groups. Two of these groups, the Curvirostre and Palmeri groups, have been known for many years because of their distinctive phenotypic characteristics, and their status was recently confirmed with an intensive morphometric analysis. The third (southern) group consists of populations in Puebla and Oaxaca, Mexico. The strong morphological and mtDNA distinctiveness of the Curvirostre and Palmeri groups suggests that they warrant species status. We recommend that more specimens of the southern group be obtained prior to formal taxonomic recognition of this form. Coalescence analyses suggest that the Curvirostre group has undergone a recent population increase, whereas the Palmeri group seems to have been more stable in its Sonoran Desert range.
10.2307/1369382|In southern Michigan, nearly half of the male Indigo Buntings, Passerina cyanea, returning from a yearling season settled on a new territory in their second breeding season, whereas 95% of the older adult males returned to the same territory in consecutive years. First-year males were significantly more likely to disperse after a failed breeding season than after a successful one; no such difference was found in females. Males were more likely to disperse after their first year than after a later year. Females were more likely to disperse than were males. Female breeding dispersal was more closely associated with a site than with the return of an individual mate, and more with the return of an individual male than with their previous breeding success. In the two populations, 49.5% of the returning females whose mate also returned (n = 222) re-united with their former mate on the old territory, and the other 50.5% took a new mate, usually when the female settled on a new site. The dispersal behavior of 30 buntings that were banded as nestlings and returned to their natal area in both their first and second breeding seasons was independent of the behavior of their parent of the same sex when it was the same age; we found no trend indicating heritability of differences in dispersal behavior. Site choice in females and social constraints in males appear to explain much of the difference in dispersal observed with sex, age, and breeding success. Seasonal and adult lifetime breeding successes generally were independent of whether an individual had dispersed from first to second year. Birds that dispersed were as successful as birds that returned to their earliest breeding site. Breeding success in a later year did not differ from breeding success in the previous year, either in the dispersers or in the birds that returned to the same territory. However, the males that dispersed to a new territory in their second year had marginally higher (P = 0.058) mean adult lifetime success in one population. In the two study areas, about 30% of all fledged buntings were produced after breeding dispersal by the male parent, and 70% were from broods where at least one parent had changed its breeding territory. Dispersing birds generally were successful after they dispersed, at least in the sample observed, which consisted of birds that found a suitable breeding site. The estimated effective population size of buntings was increased slightly by breeding dispersal, but natal dispersal has an impact greater by orders of magnitude, both in the number of young produced and in the proportion of breeding birds that dispersed into the local population from other natal areas. The dispersal variance effective number N for bunting populations is estimated at about 1 million birds, which is an order of magnitude less than the total population size for the species.
10.2307/1369211|I studied the nesting ecology of adult female Emperor Geese (Chen canagicus) from 1982-1986 on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD), Alaska. I evaluated variation among and within years in date of migration, nest initiation date, clutch size, nesting success, and nesting frequency of 90 individually marked females. Geese arrived on their nesting areas at the same relative date of the season each year and initiated nests five days after their arrival on the study area. Individuals initiated nests at the same relative time of the season each year. There was no significant repeatability for clutch size, nor did mean clutch sizes vary among years. This may be related to geese having ready access to foods during spring migration and a relative short distance (600 km) between migration staging areas and nesting grounds. When data were pooled, clutch sizes declined as the season progressed; however, this decline was not significant within individuals among years. The proportion of adult females that nested annually varied from 38.5-52.0%; the probability of nesting was independent of clutch size or nesting success the previous season. This low nesting frequency may reflect high annual mortality resulting in a high proportion of newly paired birds each year (thus less likely to nest). Emperor Geese remain at food-rich, spring staging areas until nest sites are available, initiate nests early, lay large clutches, and frequently forgo nesting.
10.2307/1369074|Clutch size of the passerines of southern South America was studied by comparing data taken from the literature for 331 species (177 genera), which breed in Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, and southern Brazil. Mean overall clutch size was 2.98 eggs, appreciably smaller than clutch size of passerines at similar latitudes in the northern hemisphere. There was a highly significant difference between mean clutch size of the two sub-orders represented in the study area, with the Deutero-Oscines having on average smaller clutches (2.73) than the Oscines (3.32). This difference between the two sub-orders was maintained in each of the five zoogeographical regions of the study area. There were also significant differences in clutch size between the five main zoogeographical regions: overall mean clutch size was smallest in the Amazonian region (2.67) and largest in the Chaco (3.29). Deutero-Oscines eggs were proportionally larger than those of Oscines (14% and 11% of body mass, respectively). There was no correlation between clutch size and body mass, nor was clutch size related to either nest type or migration. There is no evidence for latitudinal gradient in clutch size in the area studied.
10.2307/1370083|Using a reference collection of blood samples of Red Knots (Calidris canutus) from Florida and Alaska whose sex was determined by dissection, we demonstrate that the molecular method of sexing based on the size of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products from the CHD genes after digestion with Hae III accurately identifies gender in this species. In males, the 110 basepair PCR product is cleaved into two smaller fragments, whereas in females this fragment remains uncut. Molecular sexing of other samples of Red Knots from the Dutch Wadden Sea, southern Brazil, and Delaware Bay revealed that methods using a discriminant function on size or plumage dimorphism are only partly effective in correctly assigning sex of birds. Given the low cost and accuracy of molecular sexing on very small blood samples, we anticipate that it will find increasing use in studies of the evolutionary ecology of shorebirds and other avian species.
10.2307/1369797|We estimated daily rates of nest predation and Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism as well as nesting success for the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), Blue-headed Vireo (V. solitarius alticola), Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina), and Worm-eating Warbler (Helmitheros vermivorus) at two study sites in the middle Appalachian mountains from 1995-1998. These daily rates were then used in combination with species-specific life history parameters to estimate seasonal fecundity. Although daily predation rates were similar across species and sites, parasitism rates and nesting success differed within species between sites and among species within a site. The vireos generally experienced the highest rates of parasitism and subsequently the lowest estimates of seasonal fecundity. However, differences in parasitism and nesting success were not always an accurate predictor of seasonal fecundity. Despite significantly different estimates of nesting success, the Red-eyed Vireo and Blue-headed Vireo had similar estimates of seasonal fecundity. In contrast, estimates of nesting success for the Worm-eating Warbler and Wood Thrush were similar yet there were differences in seasonal fecundity. Life history attributes such as season length, ability to produce additional broods, and ability to raise a host young with a cowbird young were important in determining seasonal fecundity among species. We show the importance of including multiple species within a study framework and illustrate how predation and parasitism differentially affect these species with respect to seasonal fecundity.
4096516| Mountain Plover (Charadrius montanus) distribution and abundance have been reduced drastically in the past 30 years and the conversion of shortgrass prairie to agriculture has caused breeding populations to become geographically isolated. This, coupled with the fact that Mountain Plovers are thought to show fidelity to breeding grounds, leads to the prediction that the isolated breeding populations would be genetically distinct. This pattern, if observed, would have important management implications for a species at risk of extinction. Our study examined genetic variation at two mitochondrial regions for 20-30 individuals from each of four breeding sites. We found no evidence of significant population differentiation in the data from the control region or the ATPase 6/8 region. Nested-clade analysis revealed no relationship between haplotype phylogeny, and geography among the 47 control region haplotypes. In the ATPase 6/8 region, however, one of the two clades provided information suggesting that, historically, there has been continuous range expansion. Analysis of mismatch distributions and Tajima's D suggest that the Mountain Plover underwent a population expansion, following the Pleistocene glacial period. To explain the lack of detectable genetic differentiation among populations, despite their geographic isolation and fidelity to breeding locations, we speculate that there is sufficient female-mediated gene flow to homogenize gene pools among populations. Such gene flow might ensue if pair bonds are formed in mixed flocks on wintering grounds rather than on the summer breeding grounds. /// La distribucin y la abundancia de Charadrius montanus se han reducido drsticamente desde hace 30 aos y las poblaciones han quedado ms aisladas geogrficamente debido a la transformacin de las praderas de pastos cortos a tierras agr colas. Estos cambios, combinados con el hecho de que se cree que C. montanus presenta fidelidad a sus reas de nidificacin, sugieren que las poblaciones reproductivas aisladas podran ser distintas gen ticamente. De observarse este patrn, tendra consecuencias importantes para el manejo de esta especie en peligro de extincin. En nuestro estudio, investigamos el patrn de variacin gentica en dos regiones mitocondriales en 20-30 individuos de C. montanus provenientes de cuatro sitios de nidificacin. No encontramos evidencia de diferencias poblacionales significativas en los datos de la regin de control, ni en la regin de ATPasa 6/8. Un anlisis de clados anidados revel que no hay ninguna relacin entre haplotipos filogenia y geografa entre los 47 haplotipos de la regin de control. Sin embargo, en la regin ATPasa 6/8, uno de los dos clados provey informacin que sugiere que la especie ha aumentado histricamente su rango de distribucin. Anlisis de distribuciones "mismatch" y de la D de Tajima sugieren que la poblacin se expandi despus del perodo glacial del Pleistoceno. Para explicar la falta de diferenciacin gentica entre las poblaciones, a pesar de su aislamiento geogrfico y de la fidelidad a sus sitios de nidificacin, especulamos que el flujo de genes es controlado por las hembras de la poblacin de tal modo que los acervos gnicos son bastante homogneos entre las poblaciones. Dicho flujo de genes podra ocurrir si se formaran las parejas en las bandadas mixtas en el invierno, no en el verano cuando estn en sus reas de nidificacin. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090203|Estimating indices of abundance of threatened species is crucial to preserving biodiversity. Over the last few decades, noninvasive genetic sampling has proven to be a more straightforward and less expensive approach than capturemarkrecapture analyses. In particular, molted feathers have become extremely popular for the monitoring of bird populations. Diagnostic molecular markers such as microsatellites, however, are still not available for many avian species of conservation concern. Highly polymorphic genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), on the other hand, have become reasonably accessible during the last few years. We tested the suitability of MHC profiles as DNA fingerprints to assist the identification of individuals of a scavenger difficult to monitor through traditional approaches, the Andean Condor (
10.2307/1368694|The Rufous-bellied Chachalaca, Ortalis wagleri, of northwestern Mexico was merged with the morphologically different West Mexican Chachalaca, Ortalis poliocephala, on the basis of hybrids taken in the vicinity of Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco (Moore and Medina 1957). Eight specimens from that vicinity vary in appearance chronologically, from an individual similar to wagleri in 1892 through skins appearing to be F<sub>1</sub> hybrids in 1955 to birds nearly indistinguishable from poliocephala in 1961. There is no other evidence of contact between the two forms. This is deemed insufficient evidence for considering the forms conspecific, and I recommend that Ortalis wagleri be restored to the status of species.
40306130|The Red Crossbill (
4096476| Degradation of nesting habitat has been proposed as a factor contributing to Greater Sage-Grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) population declines throughout North America. Delineating suitable nesting habitat across landscapes with relatively contiguous sagebrush cover is difficult but important to identify areas for protection. We used radio-telemetry to locate Greater Sage-Grouse nests in relatively contiguous sagebrush habitats in Wyoming to investigate the spatial arrangement of nests relative to lek and other nest locations. Nest distributions were spatially related to lek location within 3 and 5 km of a lek, and a 5-km buffer included 64% of the nests. There was no relationship between lek size and lek-to-nest distance, suggesting that accurate population trend evaluation might require lek surveys in addition to lek counts. Closest known lek-to-nest distance was greater for successfully hatched compared to destroyed nests, and closely spaced nests tended to experience lower success and have higher probabilities of both nests experiencing the same fate compared to isolated nests, suggesting that a mechanism of enhanced prey detection occurred at higher nest densities. A low probability that a given individual's consecutive-year nest spacing occurred randomly suggested nesting site-area fidelity. Although a grouped pattern of nests occurred within 5 km of a lek, the proportion of nesting females located farther than 5 km could be important for population viability. Managers should limit strategies that negatively influence nesting habitat regardless of lek locations, and preserve adequate amounts of unaltered nesting habitat within treatment boundaries to maintain nest dispersion and provide sites for philopatric individuals. /// Se ha propuesto que la degradacin de habitat de nidificacin es un factor que contribuye a la disminucin poblacional de Centrocercus urophasianus a travs de toda Amrica del Norte. La identificacin de hbitat de nidificacin adecuado en paisajes con una cobertura relativamente contigua de Artemisa es difcil, pero es importante para identificar reas de proteccin. Usamos radio-telemetra para encontrar nidos de C. urophasianus en hbitats de Artemisa relativamente contiguos en el centro y oeste de Wyoming con el fin de investigar la distribucin espacial de nidos con relacin a las asambleas de cortejo (zonas del pavoneo y exposicin) y a la localizacin de otros nidos. La distribucin de los nidos estuvo relacionada espacialmente con la localizacin de las asambleas de cortejo dentro de un radio entre 3 y 5 km alrededor de una asamblea de cortejo, y un crculo de radio de 5 km incluy el 64% de los nidos. No hubo relacin entre el tamao de la asamblea de cortejo y la distancia del nido a sta, lo cual sugiere que una evaluacin precisa de las tendencias poblacionales puede requerir tanto estudios de cada asamblea de cortejo como de conteos anuales del nmero de asambleas de cortejo. La distancia ms corta conocida de una asamblea de cortejo a un nido fue mayor para los nidos exitosos que para los nidos destruidos. Los nidos con una distribucin mas densa tendieron a experimentar un xito menor y a tener una mayor probabilidad de que dos nidos experimentaran la misma suerte en comparacin con otros nidos ms aislados, lo cual sugiere que ocurri un mecanismo de deteccion acrecentada de presas en situaciones de mayor densidad de nidos. La baja probabilidad de que el espaciamiento de un nido de un individuo determinado en nos consecutivos ocurriera al azar sugiri fidelidad de sitio de nidificacin. Aunque se observ una distribucin agrupada de nidos dentro de un radio de 5 km alrededor de una asamblea de cortejo, la proporcin de hembras que se encontr anidando a ms de 5 km tambin podra ser importante para la viabilidad de la poblacin. Los manej adores de fauna deben limitar las estrategias que influyen negativamente sobre el hbitat de nidificacin independientemente de las posiciones de las asambleas de cortejo, y deben preservar cantidades adecuadas de hbitat de nidificacin inalterado dentro de los lmites de tratamiento para mantener la dispersin de los nidos y proveer sitios para los individuos fieles a un sitio determinado. 
10.1525/cond.2009.080074|By affecting the probability of nest predation and brood parasitism, avian nest-site selection has significant implications for reproduction and fitness. Therefore, understanding factors associated with habitat use at the nest-site scale is imperative, especially for species of conservation concern. One such species, the Swainson's Warbler (
10.2307/1368939|Lazuli Buntings, Passerina amoena, interrupt their fall migration in the American Southwest to undergo the major portion of their fall molt. Adults molt only limited numbers of body feathers on the breeding grounds before migrating to one of two molting "hotspots," (1) a region bounded by southern Arizona, southwestern New Mexico, and northern Sonora or (2) southern Baja California. Here they molt the rest of their body feathers and all flight feathers, before continuing on to the winter range in western Mexico. Hatching-year birds undergo a limited prebasic molt on the breeding grounds and then stop during migration at one of the same two hotspots to undergo a nearly complete presupplemental molt of all body and most flight feathers. Some individuals of both age classes also migrate directly to western Mexico to molt on the wintering grounds. A possible cause of the interrupted migration strategy is the combination of dry, food-scarce conditions on the breeding range and locally rainy, food-rich conditions at the molting stopovers from late August through October. After the presupplemental molt, males and females are similar in color to adults in definitive basic plumage. The prealternate molt is limited to a few head feathers for all age/sex classes, with most color change from winter to breeding aspect resulting from wear of buff feather tips which obscure bright male colors during the winter. The definitive prebasic molt takes place August to October, involving replacement of all feathers. This molt is different in timing, location, and extent from that recently reported for two congeners, the Indigo Bunting, P. cyanea, and the Painted Bunting, P. ciris.
10.1525/cond.2010.080089|For migratory birds, the selection of high-quality breeding and nonbreeding habitats has significant implications for fitness. One potential reflection of habitat quality is body condition. Condition may influence adults' survival, a key demographic variable for population growth. Access to abundant resources should lead to good condition and birds maintaining or improving their condition over time. As many species use multiple habitats, recognizing the relative quality of these alternative environments is important for understanding population dynamics and aiding conservation. One species that uses a range of habitats is Swainson's Warbler (
4096536|We employed Bayesian coalescent modeling of samples of mitochondrial control region sequences in two species of shorebird, Red Knots (Calidris canutus) and Dunlins (Calidris alpina) to estimate evolutionary effective population size, population divergence times, and time to most recent common ancestor of genes in the samples. The gene trees for the two species contrast sharply: knot haplotypes were connected in a shallow, star phylogeny whereas Dunlin haplotypes were related in a deeper bifurcating genealogy. Divergence times of populations representing all six subspecies of knots are estimated to have occurred within the last 20 000 (95% CI: 5600-58 000) years, and evolutionary effective population sizes of females are small
10.2307/1368231|We studied the interaction between brood-parasitic Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) and Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) in eastern Washington, and report four results. First, the overall rate of cowbird parasitism in our redwing nests was 7.7%. Second, the density of breeding redwings strongly affected parasitism rates among marshes within our study area, probably because of the importance of group defense. Third, over 20% of cowbird eggs laid in redwing nests at our study site appeared in inactive nests. We show that the frequency of this "inappropriate laying" by cowbirds is a function of the number of trees available in redwing nesting areas, possibly because perch sites allow female cowbirds to gain better information on the status of prospective host nests. Finally, the percentage of redwing nests parasitized increases dramatically as the breeding season progresses. We suggest that the late-season decline in rate of chick starvation found in our redwing population may increase cowbird reproductive success, even though late redwing nests are more likely to be lost to predation than early redwing nests.
10.2307/1369222|In a three-year experimental study of parental defense behavior in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), I presented live ferrets and rat snakes to parents in the vicinity of 113 nests on the 13th and 14th day after chick-hatching. Sex of the defending parent and the identity of the predator being defended against were the most significant determinants of variation in the 13 aspects of parental defense behavior measured. Males defended more aggressively than did females. This may be a correlate of stronger territorial behavior in this sex, rather than a strategic response to differing relatedness to the brood. Ferrets were defended against more strongly than were snakes. This may be a response to greater efficacy of defense behavior against ferrets. Attendance measures of the male and female parent at the nest are highly correlated, whereas intensity measures are much less so. Even those intensity measures that are significantly positively correlated have distributions with many pairs in which one parent does considerable defense and the other does none. I suggest that parents are monitoring each other in the presence of the predator and refraining from defense to get their mates to defend actively. On the basis of observations of defense against many species, I suggest that defense has three functions in Tree Swallows: Intimidation of small nest-site competitors, "moving on," and distraction of larger nest predators. There is evidence that variation in both the costs and benefits of defense are important in affecting its intensity. Despite the large number of potential determinants examined, a large proportion of the variance in parental defense behavior remained unexplained. This large residual variation may be either an adaptation to avoid predator localization of the nest or enhance distraction, or a result of relatively low selective pressures or low frequencies of encounter between predators and swallows.
10.2307/1369568|We describe vocalizations of Black-chinned Hummingbirds (Archilochus alexandri) recorded during agonistic encounters at feeders. Calls are composed of one to five different note-types that comprise a recombinatorial system exhibiting syntax. A Markov analysis revealed non-random ordering of note-types. The distribution of call-types (unique combinations of notes) illustrates openness; the number of call-types increases as more calls are sampled. Constraints on call length occur that are related to the length of individual note-types; shorter note-types are more common in calls with more notes. No sex differences occurred in the call-types with the exception of the Z note which occurred more often in male calls. The agonistic vocalizations of these hummingbirds demonstrate a level of vocal complexity comparable to songs of many passerines. We compare the vocalizations of the Black-chinned Hummingbird with studies of Anna's Hummingbird (Calypte anna) and point out major differences in repertoire organization. Marked similarities occur between organization of calls in certain chickadees (Parus) and that of the Black-chinned Hummingbird. This finding is surprising in view of their phyletic differences, but may reflect certain underlying constraints on the organization of avian vocalizations.
10.2307/1370138|I studied the patterns and frequency of cavity reuse in a community of cavity-nesting birds in a cottonwood bottomland along the South Platte River in northeastern Colorado from 1985-1987. Of 100 cavities occupied in 1985, 56% were reused in 1986; 38.5% of 122 cavities occupied in 1986 were reused in 1987. Of 81 old cavities monitored in both 1986 and 1987, 65.4% were reused at least once. Similar proportions of secondary cavity-nesting bird (SCNB) and primary cavity-nesting bird (PCNB) cavities were reused in both years. Reoccupancy by the same species was 27% and 20.5% in 1986 and 1987, respectively, and was greater for SCNB than for PCNB cavities in both years. Conversely, reoccupancy by different species was greater for PCNB than for SCNB cavities in both years. Thus, old cavities of PCNB were more available to other species of cavity-nesting birds, whereas old SCNB cavities tended to be reused by the same species that previously occupied the cavity. SCNB used a greater proportion of old cavities than did PCNB in both 1986 and 1987. House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) and Northern Flickers (Colaptes auratus) reoccupied most of the old cavities.
10.2307/1367002|To test the hypothesis that the dietary intake of the sulfur-containing amino acids (SAA) methionine and cyst(e)ine affects energy intake or the allocation of energy to production and oxidation, respectively, we fed five groups of White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) five isocaloric, isonitrogenous diets before, during, and after their postnuptial molt. The diets ranged in SAA content from sub- to superadequate in relation to standards established for poultry, and from very low to very high in relation to the SAA content of natural foods. The patterns of plumage replacement were indistinguishable among the five groups. The body weights of all birds decreased sharply at the onset of molt, as is typical for this and other species, and then gradually increased through early molt and stabilized during mid- and late molt. The components of energy balance (gross energy intake, energy utilization coefficient, caloric density of excreta, total excretory energy output) did not differ significantly or consistently among the five groups. Likewise, the net energy of molt, as estimated by subtracting the maintenance requirement for metabolized energy from the expenditure during molt by the same birds, ranged from 582 to 611 kJ, but without significant differences among the groups and without consistent correlations to the diets. The grand average was 605 kJ/25-g bird. Hence, we are unable to verify the predictions of the amino acid model for the determination of the energy requirements of molt.
40306183|The Humboldt (
10.2307/1370227|Female American Coots (Fulica americana) lay large clutches of nutrient-rich eggs, and both sexes assist with incubation and brood-rearing. We studied the role of stored fat, protein, and ash reserves in meeting the nutritional demands of reproduction by analyzing carcass composition of 138 male and 181 female coots collected in southwestern Manitoba during 1987-1991. For females, mean reserve levels did not change between prelaying, laying, incubation, early brood-rearing, and late brood-rearing; however, fat reserves of males doubled between early and late brood-rearing (21.1 vs. 45.2 g, respectively). Females with larger fat reserves began nesting earlier, but paradoxically, they did not utilize nutrient reserves for egg laying, and in 1991 females even accumulated fat reserves during laying. Both sexes accumulated fat reserves during incubation and brood-rearing. Coots that had access to supplemental food during laying, incubation, and late brood-rearing had larger fat and protein reserves, but supplemental food did not otherwise alter patterns of nutrient-reserve usage. Nutrient-reserve dynamics of American Coots differed markedly from sympatric populations of breeding ducks, which utilize fat reserves extensively during laying and incubation. We believe that two principal factors contribute to this difference: (1) the nutrient demands of egg formation in coots are about one-half those of comparable-sized ducks, and (2) biparental care in coots allows males and females to share the costs of incubation and brood-rearing, whereas in ducks these costs are incurred entirely by females. We conclude that reproduction in American Coots is not constrained by the availability of endogenous nutrients.
10.2307/1368360|A random-bred strain of domestic chickens (Gallus gallus) in single-male and two-male mating groups was used as a model to study strategies of mate guarding and sperm competition. The experiment was designed to examine influences of (a) the presence of a rival male, (b) dominance status of the males in the two-male groups, and (c) the time of day on the frequencies of male courtship and copulations. In the absence of rivalry, male chickens copulated infrequently in the morning and increased the frequency of copulations throughout the day until a maximum was reached in late afternoon. In the two-male groups the dominant males copulated more frequently than the subordinate males. They also competed by altering their diurnal pattern of mounting attempts and increasing their rate of successful copulation per attempt. The subordinate males made frequent attempts to mount the females regardless of whether they were receptive. However, their success rate was low because of interference by the dominant males, especially at that time of the day when a successful insemination would likely fertilize eggs. The experiment showed that not only the relative numbers of copulations by different males, but also the timing and success of copulations by different males may influence the probability of paternity. Furthermore, the interplay of proximate mechanisms and evolutionary factors contributed to variations in mating strategies.
1370337| We used electronic weighing platforms inside artificial nests to remotely study chick provisioning and growth in Shy Albatrosses (Thalassarche cauta) at Albatross Island, Tasmania, from 1996 to 1998. Pairs of birds concurrently carried radio-transmitters, allowing each meal to be attributed to an individual parent. Chicks received relatively small meals (372 g) once every 22 hr, and were provisioned at 392 g day
10.2307/1368383| Small birds wintering in temperate climates must increase rates of aerobic metabolism to meet thermoregulatory demands. Increased oxygen delivery to the tissues and/or increased oxygen unloading at the tissues may be involved in meeting this need. This study examines seasonal variation in vascular oxygen transport of Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) in western Oregon. Oxygen dissociation curves, hematocrits, and oxygen carrying capacities were determined in summer- and winter-acclimatized juncos. Oxygen affinity did not vary seasonally, P<sub>50</sub> values for summer and winter were 54.1 torr and 54.0 torr, respectively, at 41C and pH 7.5 Hematocrit values averaged 47.2  3.3% in summer and 52.6  2.0% in winter and were significantly different. Mean values for oxygen carrying capacity, 13.33  1.21 vol% in summer and 14.48  1.20 vol% in winter, also differed significantly. Apparently, increased oxygen demands in winter-acclimatized Dark-eyed Juncos are met, in part, by increased oxygen carrying capacity, but not by decreased oxygen affinity. 
10.2307/1368721|We studied nest-destroying behavior in Cactus Wrens (Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus) using experimental nests containing Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) eggs. Because wrens did not consume the egg contents, the behavior is not predation. Wrens attacked nests only within their own territories but often in vegetation not used as nesting substrate. Hence, the behavior probably does not represent attempts at cuckoldry or mate displacement, or competition for nest sites. Nest destruction may represent intraspecific or interspecific competition for (1) food or (2) predator-free nesting space. Evidence supporting these nonexclusive hypotheses are that food limits reproductive success in this population of wrens, and nest predation was density dependent in this population (natural nests surrounded by experimental nests showed higher predation rates than controls). Major predators included snakes, especially whipsnakes (Masticophis spp.), which are able to access Cactus Wren nests despite cholla (Opuntia spp.) spines.
1370672| We examined the predatory behavior of wintering urban Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii). Eight Cooper's Hawks (7 female, 1 male) were radio-tracked intensively during two winter periods from 1999-2001. We observed 179 attacks, 35 of which were successful, for an overall attack success rate of 20%. We recorded an additional 44 kills resulting from unobserved attacks. European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura), and Rock Doves (Columba livia) made up 95% of the prey attacked and 91% of the diet. Smaller birds (<70 g), such as House Sparrows (Passer domesticus), were numerous in the study area but were rarely attacked. Mammals were not included in the diet. Surprise attacks (initiated at close range, often from behind an obstruction), were more successful than "open" attacks, although the latter were more frequent. In addition, attacks on single individuals were significantly more successful than those on flocks. Nonetheless, many attacks were attempted on large flocks. Our results suggest that the smaller bird species (<70 g) in our urban study area were at low risk of predation from Cooper's Hawks. /// Examinamos el comportamiento de depredacin de individuos urbanos de la especie Accipiter cooperii durante el perodo de invernada. Ocho individuos (siete hembras y un macho) fueron seguidos intensamente mediante radio telemetra durante dos perodos invernales desde 1999 hasta 2001. Observamos 179 ataques, de los cuales 35 fueron exitosos, con una tasa general de xito de ataque del 20%. Adicionalmente, registramos 44 muertes que resultaron de ataques no observados. Sturnus vulgaris. Zenaida macroura y Columba livia compusieron el 95% de las presas atacadas y el 91% de la dieta. Aves pequeas (<70 g), como Passer domesticus, fueron muy abundantes en el rea de estudio pero fueron raramente atacadas. La dieta no incluy mamferos. Los ataques sorpresivos (iniciados a una corta distancia, generalmente desde detrs de algn objeto) fueron ms exitosos que ataques "abiertos," aunque estos ltimos fueron ms frecuentes. Adems, los ataques sobre individuos que se encontraban solos fueron significativamente ms exitosos que aquellos sobre bandadas. Sin embargo, muchos ataques fueron intentados sobre bandadas grandes. Nuestros resultados sugieren que en nuestra rea de estudio urbana las especies de aves ms pequeas (<70 g) tenan un menor riesgo de ser depredadas por A. cooperii. 
4096535| From 1999-2003, we tracked movements of adult female Prairie Falcons (Falco mexicanus) using satellite telemetry to characterize long-range movement patterns and breeding dispersal. We radio marked 40 falcons from April-May on their nesting grounds in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area in southwest Idaho. All falcons with functioning transmitters left the Snake River Canyon from late June through mid-July. Most headed northeast across the Continental Divide to summering areas in Montana, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and the Dakotas. Prairie Falcons stayed at their northern summer areas for 1-4 months before heading to the southern Great Plains or to southwest Idaho. The Great Plains was a key migration pathway. Important wintering areas included the Texas Panhandle and southwest Idaho. Most falcons completed their seasonal migrations within 2 weeks. Use of widely separated nesting, summering, and wintering areas appears to be a strategy to exploit seasonally abundant prey resources. Most falcons had three or fewer use areas during the nonbreeding season, and falcons showed a high degree of fidelity to their use areas during each season. At least 21 falcons returned to nest within 2.5 km of where they nested in the previous year, but one falcon moved to a new nesting area 124 km south of her previous breeding area. Prairie Falcon movements suggest large-scale connectivity of grassland and shrubsteppe landscapes throughout western North America. Conservation of Prairie Falcons must be an international effort that considers habitats used during both nesting and non-nesting seasons. /// Entre los aos 1999 y 2003, seguimos los movimientos de hembras adultas de Falco mexicanus utilizando telemetra satelital para caracterizar los patrones de movimiento de largo alcance y la dispersin reproductiva. Marcamos con radios a 40 halcones desde abril hasta mayo en sus sitios de nidificacin en el rea de Conservacin Nacional de Aves de Presa Snake River en el sudoeste de Idaho. Todos los halcones con transmisores funcionando dejaron el can de Snake River desde fines de junto hasta mediados de julio. La mayora se dirigi hacia el noreste a lo largo de la lnea de divisin continental rumbo a las  reas de veraneo en Montana, Alberta, Saskatchewan y Dakotas. F. mexicanus permaneci en sus  reas de veraneo del norte durante 1 a 4 meses antes de dirigirse hacia las Great Plains del sur o hacia el sudoeste de Idaho. Las Great Plains representaron una ruta migratoria clave. Las reas de invernada importantes incluyeron al Texas Panhandle y el sudoeste de Idaho. La mayora de los halcones completaron su migracin estacional en menos de dos semanas. El uso de reas de nidificacin, de veraneo e de invernada ampliamente separadas entre s parece ser una estrategia para explotar presas estacionalmente abundantes. La mayora de los halcones tuvo tres o menos reas de uso durante la estacin no reproductiva y los halcones mostraron un alto nivel de fidelidad a sus  reas de uso durante cada estacin. Al menos 21 halcones regresaron a nidificar a menos de 2.5 km de donde nidificaron el ao previo, pero un halcn se desplaz a una nueva rea de nidificacin ubicada a 124 km al sur de su rea previa de cra. Los movimientos de F. mexicanus sugieren la existencia de una conectividad a gran escala de los paisajes de pastizal y la estepa ser un esfuerzo internacional que considere los ambientes usados durante las estaciones reproductivas y no reproductivas. 
1370610| We examined winter (November-January) shorebird use at 19 sites around Humboldt Bay, California, an important site for nonbreeding shorebirds. We analyzed species richness (number of species), species densities, and incidences (presence/absence) in relation to habitat characteristics (tidal flat width, channelization, standing water, timing of tidal ebb, and sediment particle size). We included site area in analyses of incidence, and site area and substrate heterogeneity in the species richness analysis. We observed a total of 19 species, 8-16 at individual sites, and this variation correlated with substrate heterogeneity. Substrate particle size correlated positively with Sanderling (Calidris alba) incidence and negatively with American Avocet (Recurvirostra americana) incidence. Amount of standing water correlated positively with Whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus) and negatively with dowitcher (Limnodromus griseus and L. scolopaceus) incidence. Width of tidal flat correlated negatively with Whimbrel incidence. Sites at which tides ebbed earliest had higher incidences of Whimbrel and Sanderling and higher densities of Long-billed Curlew (Numenius americanus), but lower yellowlegs (Tringa melanoleuca and T. flavipes) densities. The amount of channelization correlated positively with curlew densities. These habitat relationships suggest that alteration of tidal flats at Humboldt Bay and elsewhere in coastal habitats has the potential to adversely affect patterns of shorebird distribution. /// Examinamos el uso invernal (noviembre-enero) de 19 sitios alrededor de Humboldt Bay, California, por parte de aves playeras. sta es un rea importante para aves playeras no reproductivas. Analizamos la riqueza (nmero), densidad e incidencia (presencia/ausencia) de especies con relacin a caractersticas del hbitat (ancho del plano mareal, canalizacin, agua estancada, momento de la disminucin de la marea y tamao de partculas del sedimento). Incluimos el rea del sitio en los anlisis de incidencia y el rea del sitio y la heterogeneidad del sustrato en los anlisis de riqueza de especies. Observamos un total de 19 especies (8-16 en sitios individuales), y esta variacin se correlacion con la heterogeneidad del sustrato. El tamao de las partculas del sustrato se correlacion positivamente con la incidencia de Calidris alba y negativamente con la de Recurvirostra americana. La cantidad de agua estancada se correlacion positivamente con la incidencia de Numenius phaeopus y negativamente con la de Limnodromus griseus y L. scolopaceus. El ancho del plano mareal se correlacion negativamente con la incidencia de N. phaeopus. Los sitios en que las mareas menguaron ms temprano presentaron mayores incidencias de N. phaeopus y C. alba, y mayores densidades de Numenius americanus, pero menores densidades de Tringa melanoleuca y T. flavipes. El grado de canalizacin se correlacion positivamente con las densidades de N. americanus. Estas relaciones de hbitat sugieren que la alteracin de planos mareales en Humboldt Bay y en otros hbitats costeros potencialmente puede afectar adversamente los patrones de distribucin de las aves playeras. 
4122520| We report the growth rates and plumage development of Long-eared Owls (Asio otus) in two developmental stages from hatching to fledging, the nestling period (1-22 days) and prefledging period (23-37 days). We used the logistic growth equation to model nestling mass gain. Mass gain was most rapid during the nestling period. Average mass gain per day was highest between seven and 13 days of age. At 16 days of age nestlings displayed defined facial disks and complete second down. Nestlings left the nest at 22 days of age. Mass gain slowed considerably after nest departure and continued to slow up to fledging. Appearance of defensive and concealment behaviors occurred nearly simultaneously with departure from the nest. To our knowledge this is the first detailed report of nestling growth rates and plumage development for Long-eared Owls in North America. /// Presentamos las tasas de crecimiento y el desarrollo del plumaje de Asio otus en dos etapas de desarrollo desde el momento de eclosin hasta el de emplumamiento: el perodo de pichn (1-22 das) y el perodo previo al emplumamiento (23-37 das). Usamos la ecuacin de crecimiento logstico para modelar el aumento de la masa del pichn. El incremento de la masa fue mximo durante el perodo de pichn. El incremento de masa promedio por da fue mximo entre los 7 y 13 das de edad. A los 16 das de edad, los pichones mostraron discos faciales definidos y el segundo plumn completo. Los pichones dejaron el nido a los 22 das de edad. El incremento en la masa disminuy considerablemente luego del abandono del nido y continu disminuyendo hasta el emplumamiento. La aparicin de los comportamientos defensivos y de ocultacin ocurri casi simultneamente con la partida del nido. A nuestro entender, este es el primer informe detallado sobre las tasas de crecimiento de los pichones y el desarrollo del plumaje para A. otus en Amrica del Norte. 
10.2307/1368838|We compared site attendance, length and number of absences from the colony, and prey delivered to the young of control Common Murres (Uria aalge) and others which carried radio transmitters that had either an external or internal aerial during chick rearing. Birds with the internal aerial behaved similarly to control birds. However, birds with the external aerial spent less time in the colony, were absent for long continuous periods, and often returned without a fish for the chick. This did not reduce fledging success because their mates compensated by increasing the food brought in. Fewer observations were made on Razorbills (Alca torda) with external aerial transmitters, but they indicated no profound effect on behavior.
10.2307/1370221|Empirical tests of ecological advantages of site fidelity in birds are few because consequences of dispersal are rarely measured. We examined the relationship between dispersal distance between consecutive nesting attempts and age, nest success, reproductive performance, and spring environment for female Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) nesting colonially at the Tutakoke River, Alaska, 1987-1993. We found little evidence of fidelity to natal sites. Young brant moved towards a peripheral area of the colony. Successfully breeding brant dispersed shorter distances than those failing to nest successfully. Brant that initiated nests early dispersed farther than brant that initiated nests late. Neither nest success nor initiation date in year t + 1 were related to dispersal distance (year t to year t + 1), but clutch size declined with dispersal distance. Although generally not significant, annual variation (interaction) in the relationship between dispersal distance and measures of reproductive performance (i.e., initiation date and clutch size) suggest that this relationship may be influenced by spring weather conditions. Evidence for the advantages of site fidelity in brant was equivocal. Dispersal distance explained little variation associated with reproductive performance. Variation in individual bird quality, environmental conditions, and demographic status may be more important determinants of breeding performance in brant than potential benefits of site fidelity.
10.2307/1367828| Tracking radar and direct visual observations were employed to study the migration of Common Loons (Gavia immer) through eastern New York. Single birds and groups of up to four individuals flew at altitudes between 1,500 and 2,700 m (above sea level), usually above the turbulent convective layer. These migrants were not readily visible without the aid of binoculars and the tracking radar. Loons flew downwind toward the Atlantic coast in autumn (124) and toward the eastern end of Lake Ontario and the St. Lawrence River in spring (347). Direction of migration was more variable in spring, possibly owing to the greater variability of winds on flight days and destination of migrants. Loons never flew into headwinds. Strong westerly winds in autumn promoted higher groundspeeds than in spring. Mean airspeed was faster than that reported for most other species and did not vary in relation to following wind component as did groundspeed. Estimated flight time between Lake Ontario and the Atlantic coast of southern New England was between three and four hours depending upon wind velocity. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120053|In expanding populations, individuals may increasingly be forced to use sites of relatively low quality. This process, named the buffer effect, was previously described for the Black-tailed Godwit (
1370587| We investigated whether wing morphology differed between the sedentary House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) of western North America and the introduced population of eastern North America, as the latter has developed migratory behavior since its inception. Wing morphology differed between eastern and western House Finches. Eastern House Finches had shorter proximal primaries and a longer outer primary, perhaps reflecting a thinner and more pointed wing, although no disparity in wing length was detected. Since we interpret these differences in wing shape as modifications for flight capability, we believe that initial evidence for morphological divergence relative to migratory habit between eastern and western House Finches has been established here. Confirmatory studies to determine if wing morphology varies according to the gradient in expression of migratory behavior throughout the range of eastern House Finches are now warranted. /// Investigamos si la morfologa del ala difera entre individuos sedentarios de Carpodacus mexicanus del oeste de Norte Amrica y la poblacin introducida en el este de Norte Amrica, la cual ha desarrollado un comportamiento migratorio desde su insercin. La morfologa del ala difiri entre las poblaciones de C. mexicanus del este y del oeste. Los individuos del este tuvieron primarias proximales ms cortas y primarias externas ms largas, lo que quizs refleja un ala ms fina y ms puntiaguda, aunque no se detect una diferencia en el largo del ala. Ya que interpretamos estas diferencias en la forma del ala como modificaciones para la capacidad del vuelo, creemos que se ha establecido una evidencia inicial de divergencia morfolgica en relacin con el hbito migratorio entre las poblaciones de C. mexicanus del este y del oeste de Norte Amrica. Actualmente, son necesarios estudios que confirmen y determinen si la morfologa del ala vara de acuerdo al gradiente de expresin del comportamiento migratorio a travs del rango de distribucin de la poblacin de C. mexicanus del este. 
10.2307/1370205|We studied the effects of forest cover and configuration on nesting songbird distribution in a harvested boreal forest. To emphasize landscape-level effects relative to stand effects, point count stations were established in mature stands only, but were surrounded by contrasting 100-ha landscapes. Seven of the 14 species studied responded significantly to landscape structure, but responses to specific landscape measures were found only in three species. Bay-breasted Warbler (Dendroica castanea) was absent from landscapes with <55% forest cover. Solitary Vireo (Vireo solitarius) also was associated with high forest cover per se. Conversely, American Robin (Turdus migratorius) was associated with poorly-forested landscapes. No species responded to mature forest configuration. Thus, clearcutting in boreal forests will reduce the use of remnant forest patches by certain species through a decrease of surrounding mature forest cover rather than changes in its spatial configuration.
40072423|Northwestern South America is a complex area that has witnessed the differentiation and expansion of a major portion of the Neotropical avifauna. The northern end of the Cordillera Central of the Colombian Andes contributes to this complexity by bringing a continuum of humid habitats from the Andean highlands to the lowland rainforests. We present new distributional information on 36 avian species of the cloud forests and pramos of this region (13003250 m), gained through eight years of fieldwork and general collecting. These new records reflect the mixed biogeographic affinities of the avifauna of the northern Cordillera Central, which is composed of taxa from the pluvial foothills of the Choc (e.g., Indigo Flowerpiercer [
10.1525/cond.2010.100098|The magnitude of differentiation in vocal signals examined in a phylogenetic context has helped uncover cryptic diversity in subsocine passerines such as the antbirds (Thamnophilidae). On the basis of variation in 14 acoustic traits of loudsongs and a phylogenetic hypothesis inferred from a mitochondrial gene tree, we investigated species limits in a group of trans-Andean
4500972| I examined 963 study skins of Lesser Goldfinches (Carduelis psaltria) from the United States to central Mexico, for color, measurements, molt, and plumage wear. These specimens had been previously assigned to as many as three subspecies. Females did not vary geographically in color. Green-backed, green-eared males predominated in the Pacific coastal United States and northern Mexico. Black-backed, black-eared males predominated in the interior, east of 106 West longitude. This west to east color difference varied clinally, and may be a simple genetic polymorphism, so subspecific distinctions cannot be justified by coloration alone. Measurements of bill, tail, and wing, but not tarsus, varied slightly but significantly from smallest along the Pacific coast to largest in south-central Mexico. Since measurements varied clinally, and overlapped extensively, subspecific separation based on size is not practical. Pacific coastal birds subjected to winter rainfall maxima had a complete postbreeding molt, with a sparse prebreeding body molt only in females, and a postjuvenal molt that replaced significantly more flight feathers in males. Interior birds subjected to summer precipitation maxima had a nearly complete or complete prebreeding molt and a usually less complete postbreeding molt. The postjuvenal and postbreeding molts of interior birds were very similar and did not differ between the sexes. Although these sexual and geographic variations of molt are striking, they may reflect phenotypic plasticity in response to environmental contingencies, rather than genetic differences. These variations in one intergrading population support doubts that the Humphrey-Parkes terminology for molts and plumages can reflect phylogenetic homologies among species. /// Examin 963 pieles de estudio de Carduelis psaltria provenientes de Estados Unidos hasta el centro de Mxico, registrando color, medidas, muda y desgaste del plumaje. Estos especmenes haban sido asignados previamente a hasta tres subespecies. Las hembras no variaron geogrficamente en el color. Los machos con dorso y auriculares de color verde predominaron en la costa del Pacfico de Estados Unidos y el norte de Mxico. Los machos con dorso y auriculares de color negro predominaron en el interior, al este de los 106 de longitud oeste. Esta diferencia de color de oeste a este vari de modo clinal y podra ser simplemente un polimorfismo gentico, por lo que las distinciones de subespecies no pueden justificarse solamente por la coloratin. Las medidas del pico, la cola y el ala, pero no del tarso, variaron discreta pero significativamente de menor a mayor desde la costa del Pacfico hacia el centro sur de Mxico. Debido a que las medidas variaron clinalmente y a que presentaron gran superposicin, la separacin en subespecies basada en el tamao no es prctica. Las aves de la costa del Pacfico expuestas a las mayores precipitaciones invernales presentaron una muda post reproductiva completa, con una muda dispersa pre-reproductiva del cuerpo presente slo en las hembras y una muda post-juvenil que reemplaz significativamente ms plumas del vuelo en los machos. Las aves del interior expuestas a las mximas precipitaciones del verano presentaron una muda pre-reproductiva casi completa o completa y una muda post-reproductiva usualmente menos completa. Las mudas post-juvenil y post-reproductiva de las aves del interior fueron muy similares y no difirieron entre sexos. Aunque estas variaciones sexuales y geogrficas de la muda son muy marcadas, podran reflejar plasticidad fenotpica en respuesta a las caractersticas del ambiente, ms que diferencias genticas. Estas variaciones en una nica poblacin entremezclada generan dudas en cuanto a si la terminologa de Humphrey-Parkes para las mudas y el plumaje efectivamente refleja las homologas filogenticas entre especies. 
10.2307/1367313| At temperatures below 28C, rate of oxygen consumption (V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub>) of Zebra Finches (Poephila guttata) incubating eggs averaged 20% higher than the V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> of non-incubating Zebra Finches sitting in a nest at the same temperature. This increase represents the energetic cost of incubation. The V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> of non-incubating birds sitting in a nest was lower than values reported for birds perched in the open at the same temperature. In the Zebra Finch, the ameliorating effects of the nest microclimate approximately compensate for the increment in metabolic rate due to incubation. The energetic cost of incubation increased when birds had to rewarm cold eggs. Incubating birds responded to artificially cooled eggs by elevating their metabolic rate and increasing heat flow to the clutch. The pattern of adult attentiveness at the nest determines the number of times and amount by which the eggs must be rewarmed. Because it is energetically more expensive to rewarm eggs than to maintain temperature once the eggs are warm, the cost of incubation depends in part on the attentiveness pattern. 
1370716| We compared cavity-nesting bird communities in aspen (Populus tremuloides) woodland fragments classified on the basis of vegetation structure (tree density) and landscape context (surrounding vegetation). We found very few cavity nesters in fragments predominantly surrounded by forests. Fragments adjacent to meadows contained more species and a greater abundance of cavity nesters. Species richness and abundance were higher in sparsely than in densely treed meadow fragments. Because secondary cavity nesters are often limited by cavity availability, we augmented natural cavities with nest boxes. Although only five boxes contained bird nests, these were all in sparse aspen fragments predominantly surrounded by meadows. However, we found 25 northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus) nests in boxes, none of which were in sparse meadow fragments. In addition to high-lighting the importance of landscape context in avian and mammalian habitat relationships, our results suggest that predator or competitor interactions may help structure this cavity-nester community. /// Comparamos comunidades de aves que nidifican en cavidades en fragmentos de bosque de lamo (Populus tremuloides) clasificados en base a la estructura de la vegetacin (densidad de rboles) y al contexto del paisaje (vegetacin circundante). Encontramos muy pocas aves que nidifican en cavidades en los fragmentos rodeados predominantemente por bosque. Los fragmentos adyacentes a prados presentaron ms especies y mayor abundancia de aves. La riqueza y la abundancia de especies fueron mayores en fragmentos con baja densidad de rboles que estuvieron rodeados por prados. Debido a que las aves que nidifican en cavidades secundarias estn a menudo limitadas por la disponibilidad de cavidades, aumentamos las cavidades naturales con cajas de anidaje. Aunque solamente cinco cajas contuvieron nidos de aves, stas estuvieron todas en los fragmentos con baja densidad de lamos rodeados predominantemente por prados. Sin embargo, encontramos 25 nidos de ardillas voladoras norteas (Glaucomys sabrinus) en las cajas de anidaje, de las cuales ninguna estuvo en fragmentos con baja densidad de rboles rodeados por prado. Nuestros resultados destacan la importancia del contexto del paisaje en las relaciones entre el hbitat y las aves y mamferos, y sugieren que las interacciones con depredadores o competidores pueden influenciar la estructura de la comunidades de aves que anidan en cavidades. 
10.2307/1367567|We studied whether the young of the Brown-headed Cowbird are more successful than those of nonparasitic passerines when raised by other species. Eggs and nestlings of seven species were placed in Barn Swallow and House Sparrow nests, and the hatching success and nestling survival rates compared. The hatching success was high for all species in both host species' nests. In the Barn Swallow nest, the nestlings of four of the five nonparasitic species did as well as the cowbird nestlings. On the other hand, the three foreign species placed in the House Sparrow nest, including the cowbird, all failed to survive through the nestling stage. In addition, a Redwinged Blackbird, a catbird, and a cowbird were observed immediately after departing from their Barn Swallow host nests; only the cowbird elicited feedings from its host parents. Thus the young cowbird fared no better than the other species as a nestling. Although cowbirds can be reared by their most frequent host species, they may not be particularly successful with some of their less common hosts. They may be especially successful as a fledgling, a hypothesis that awaits further investigation.
10.2307/1369762|We quantified foot squeezing pressure exerted by Common Buzzards (Buteo buteo) and Eurasian Kestrels (Falco tinnunculus) while grasping a rodent. The birds were offered either a dead laboratory mouse, a fake mouse consisting of a laboratory mouse skin surrounding a rubber pipe connected to a pressure transducer, or a live laboratory mouse. Direct observations and necropsy of the depredated mice confirm death by suffocation from the raptor's grasp. The two raptor species differed in technique of constricting the fake mouse: the buzzard relied on strong, but very brief squeezing bouts, whereas the kestrel compensated for less squeezing strength by performing constriction with prolonged duration. When observed, bites to the head were consistent with immobilizing live prey but not killing it. In contrast, squeezing by thoracic compression is sufficient to kill the prey without the need to use beak or talons.
10.2307/1369641|Nest defense is a critical aspect of parental care that entails both costs and benefits. The purpose of this study was to examine patterns of nest defense in a colony of Arctic and Common Terns (Sterna paradisaea and S. hirundo, respectively) using observations of natural predators: Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls (L. marinus). Tern nest-defense scores were higher for hunting gulls than for overflying gulls and for gull flights closer to the ground. Defense scores also were significantly higher during the chick stage than during the egg stage. Within the chick stage, response score initially increased with age, but then declined. The results of this study indicate that terns vary their defense in relation to characteristics of predators and offspring that influence the costs and benefits of defense.
1370385| Arabian Babblers (Turdoides squamiceps; adult body mass 65-75 g) are territorial, cooperatively breeding passerines that inhabit hot, dry deserts. Groups include breeding adults and helpers and generally consist of 3 to 5 individuals (range 2 to 22). All group members provision nestlings at similar rates, and individual visitation rates decline with increasing group size. Consequently, we predicted that the field metabolic rate (FMR) of individuals provisioning nestlings would decrease with increasing group size. To test this prediction, we determined FMR of primary female, primary male, female helper and male helper babblers in different sized groups provisioning nestlings. Field metabolic rate of primary females, but not other classes, decreased linearly with group size. This energy savings could allow primary females in larger groups to start a new nest more quickly. FMR for all babblers was 61% to 66% of the value predicted for a passerine of its body mass provisioning nestlings and was 3.11  BMR, similar to the mean value of 3.13  BMR reported for a number of terrestrial species. /// Turdoides squamiceps (peso corporal del adulto 65-75 g) es un paserino territorial que presenta reproduccin cooperativa y habita desiertos secos y calurosos. Los grupos estn constituidos tanto por adultos reproductivos como por ayudantes, y generalmente estn compuestos por 3 a 5 individuos (rango 2 a 22). Todos los miembros del grupo alimentan a los polluelos de un nido a tasas similares, y las tasas de visita disminuyen con el aumento del tamao del grupo. Consecuentemente, predecimos que la tasa metablica de campo (TMC) de los individuos que aprovisionan a los polluelos de un nido disminuir con el aumento del tamao del grupo. Para probar esta prediccin, determinamos la TMC de hembras primarias, machos primarios, hembras ayudantes y machos ayudantes en grupos de T. squamiceps de diferente tamao que se encuentran aprovisionando polluelos. La tasa metablica de campo disminuy linealmente con el tamao del grupo slo para las hembras primarias; las dems clases no presentaron cambios. Este ahorro de energa podra permitirle a las hembras primarias iniciar un nuevo nido con mayor rapidez en grupos de mayor tamao. La TMC para todos los T. squamiceps represent entre el 61 y 66% del valor predicho para un paserino de su tamao corporal que aprovisiona a polluelos de un nido, y fue 3.11  TMB (tasa metablica basal), similar al valor medio de 3.13  TMB reportado para varias especies terrestres. 
1370741| Barrow's Goldeneye (Bucephala islandica) and Bufflehead (B. albeola) are cavity-nesting waterfowl that have received considerable attention in studies using nest boxes, but little is known about their nesting ecology in natural cavities. We found larger clutch size, lower nesting success, and different major predators for Barrow's Goldeneyes nesting in boxes versus those nesting in natural cavities, but few differences for Bufflehead. These differences are attributed to the location and physical differences between Barrow's Goldeneye nest boxes and natural cavities that affect their conspicuousness to predators and conspecific nest-parasitizing females. Goldeneye boxes were concentrated in highly visible locations such as trees at water or forest edge. Natural cavity nests, on the other hand, were often abandoned Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) cavities, which were more dispersed throughout the forest interior and concealed under dense canopy cover. Bufflehead natural cavity nests were typically closer to edges, which may account for their similarity with boxes. We conclude that in some respects, studies of Barrow's Goldeneye that use nest boxes may not be representative of birds nesting in natural cavities, whereas those of Bufflehead are more likely to be so. /// Los especies de patos Bucephala islandica y B. albeola anidan en cavidades, por lo que con frecuencia han sido estudiadas usando nidos articificales, pero poco se conoce sobre su ecologa de nidificacin en cavidades naturales. Los individuos de B. islandica que anidan en nidos artificiales presentaron nidadas ms grandes, menor xito reproductivo y distintos depredadores que los individuos que anidan en cavidades naturales, pero detectamos pocas diferencias para B. albeola. Estas diferencias son atribuidas a la ubicacin y a las diferencias fsicas entre los nidos artificiales y las cavidades naturales de B. islandica que afectan su visibilidad para deprededores y hembras coespecficas que parasitan los nidos. Los nidos artificiales de B. islandica estuvieron concentrados en lugares muy visibles como rboles al borde del bosque o a la orilla del agua. Por el contrario, las cavidades naturales frecuentemente fueron cavidades abandonadas de Dryocopus pileatus, las cuales se presentaron ms dispersas por el interior del bosque y ocultas bajo un dosel denso. Las cavidades naturales de B. albeola se ubicaron tpicamente ms cerca del borde, lo que tal vez explica la semejanza con los nidos artificiales. Concluimos que en algunos casos, los estudios de B. islandica que utilizan nidos artificiales pueden no ser representativos de individuos que anidan en cavidades naturales, mientras que los estudios de B. albeola probablemente s sean ms representativos. 
40072427|We examined the genetic mating system and social breeding structure of the Southern Lapwing (
1370609| We monitored 18 nests of Cooper's Hawks (Accipiter cooperii) in Tucson, Arizona, and 18 nests in rural areas of southeastern Arizona from 1999-2000 to compare feeding behavior of urban- and rural-nesting hawks. We recorded the frequency of prey deliveries, the approximate size and type of prey items, and the behavior of hawks during each delivery. Differences between rates of prey delivery at urban and rural nests decreased as nestlings grew. Rate of prey delivery at urban nests exceeded that at rural nests most during the morning and least at midday. Urban hawks delivered 2.0  1.2 times more prey biomass nestling
10.2307/1368558|Gray Partridge (Perdix perdix) calling data were obtained during 138 sunrise and 140 sunset surveys, winter 1982-1983 through summer 1984. Calling activity was concentrated in the 45-min periods before sunrise and after sunset. Calling was more frequent (P < 0.05) in mornings than evenings in summer and winter, but not late winter-spring. Gray Partridge calling frequency differed (P < 0.05) among seasons and peaked during February to April. Acoustical structure of calls supported predictions regarding characteristics used in grassland environments to minimize signal attenuation. Sonagraphic analysis of calls revealed that frequency of calls was low and rapidly modulated and that average call duration differed (P < 0.05) among seasons. We hypothesize that seasonal differences in calling behavior and acoustical structure of the calls reflect seasonal variation in the function of calls.
10.2307/1369806|Age classes of migrant songbirds often differ in migration timing. This difference creates the potential for age-ratios recorded at stopover sites to vary with the amount and distribution of sampling effort used. To test for these biases, we sub-sampled migrant capture data from the Middle Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico. We created data sets that reflected the age ratios of migrants that would have been captured with stratified and concentrated designs at four levels of mist-netting effort. Analysis of these data indicate that age-ratios of Neotropical migrants varied significantly with sampling design, but not with sampling effort. More after-hatch-year Neotropical migrants were captured with stratified than with concentrated sampling designs. Age-ratio of temperate migrants did not vary with either amount of sampling effort or sampling design. Sampling design is an important consideration in the interpretation of age ratios among stopover sites, and standardization of sampling among sites could improve our understanding of differential migration of age classes.
10.2307/1368273|Sixty-seven records (from 1909 to 1984) of Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) using 33 freshwater lakes along the west coast of North America (78.6% in British Columbia, 12.1% in Alaska, 6.1% in Washington, and 3.0% in Oregon) were compiled and analyzed. The preponderance of records from southern British Columbia lakes possibly reflects the abundance of coastal lakes there that are accessible to high numbers of murrelets and observers. Fifty-three of the lake-use records were obtained during the species' breeding season (April through September); 13 were from the nonbreeding season (October to March). Most lakes used were within 20 km of the ocean, but a few murrelets were reported at lakes 50 to 75 km inland (Cultus, Harrison, and Swan Lakes, British Columbia). The multiple records of Marbled Murrelets using Cultus and Harrison Lakes suggest that these lakes are near nesting areas, and as such, are the farthest distances inland Marbled Murrelets can be expected to nest. Five or less individuals usually were reported in each record, although up to 46 were seen in summer on Nitinat Lake, Vancouver Island. Feeding occurred on some lakes in British Columbia, apparently mainly at night: the stomachs of four murrelets contained fingerling sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka), while another stomach contained the remains of salmon fry.
10.2307/1368515|The population dynamics of Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) were studied at the Semidi Islands in the western Gulf of Alaska. Fulmars occurred in a broad range of color phases, and annual survival was estimated from the return of birds in the rarer plumage classes. A raw estimate of mean annual survival over a 5-year period was 0.963, but a removal experiment indicated the raw value was probably biased downward. The estimate of annual survival adjusted accordingly was 0.969. Mortality during the breeding season was less than 10% of the annual total, and postbreeding mortality of failed breeders was three to four times higher than that of successful breeders. Breeding success averaged 41% over 9 years. About 5% of experienced birds failed to breed each year due to physical destruction of their breeding sites, mate-loss, or other causes. An estimated 30% of the birds near the colony in one year were of prebreeding age. A comparison of population parameters in Pacific and Atlantic fulmars indicates that higher survival in the prebreeding years is the likely basis for population growth in the northeastern Atlantic. The correlation of breeding success and survival suggests both parameters may decline with age.
10.2307/1369946|We measured the effect of clutch-size changes on levels of circulating prolactin (prl) among incubating male Wilson's Phalaropes in order to identify the influence of clutch-size as an exogenous determinant of circulating prl, and to better understand the endocrinology of clutch abandonment. One year of the study was characterized by unusually high temperatures and drought, and incubating males appeared to be heavily stressed based on ambient temperatures and rates of weight loss. We used the contrasting environmental conditions between years to compare levels of circulating prl among males experiencing different levels of environmental stress. We found a strong inter-year effect, with significantly lower prl during the high stress year. We also found a clear effect of clutch-size on level of circulating prl during the low stress year of the study. Males with increased or decreased clutch-size had lower levels of circulating prl than did control males. Because prl levels were so variable, we sought alternative explanations to year and clutch-size effects. We examined nine environmental and physiological factors a posteriori for a relationship with circulating prl. Although we identified weak correlates, none of the additional factors could account for the variation in prl explained by year and clutch-size. Incubating male Wilson's Phalaropes appear to experience an adaptive endocrine change when the potential fitness of their clutch is compromised.
10.2307/1369860|I studied brood parasitism among 110 Aythya nests and filmed 125 interactions at 14 Canvasback (A. valisineria) and 5 Redhead (A. americana) nests to describe host-parasite behavior. Redheads outnumbered breeding Canvasbacks by about 5.4 to 1 on the Delta Marsh, Manitoba, and heavily parasitized Canvasback nests (x SE=7.6 2.8 eggs/nest). High rates of parasitism resulted in delayed host embryo development, up to 23% longer incubation periods, and extended brooding behavior at nests containing unhatched or late-hatching eggs. Females followed potential hosts to locate nests, made prelaying nest visits, and selected active rather than deserted nests to parasitize. Parasitic laying was not markedly deterred by host resistance and occurred at all stages of host laying and incubation, resulting in only 34% of parasitic Redhead eggs hatching in successful Canvasback nests. Laying females aggressively displaced incubating hosts, causing eggs to be accidentally displaced from nests. Host Canvasback eggs were five times as likely to be cracked and twice as likely to be dislodged from nests than were parasitic Redhead eggs. Hosts limited defensive actions to pushing against intruders or pecking at the heads of parasitic females, resulting in some parasitic eggs being deposited outside nest bowls. Incubating females may be constrained from using highly aggressive behavior to deter brood parasites partly because of fitness costs of fighting and breaking or displacing their own eggs. The existence of host defensive behavior suggests that brood parasitism may present significant fitness costs, even among species with nidifugous precocial young, by affecting the critical processes of synchronous hatching and nest exodus.
4151044| Ornithologists commonly estimate nest survival using the Mayfield method, which produces relatively unbiased estimates provided that key assumptions are met. However, this method cannot statistically model nest failure in relation to quantitative variables, nor can it consider the joint effects of two or more independent variables. We demonstrate the use of an alternative method, survival time analysis. Survival time analysis can incorporate nests that are found at different points in the nesting cycle and nests whose ultimate outcome is unknown. The method allows one to examine variation in nest mortality during the course of the nesting period. To demonstrate this method we analyze data on Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) nests, collected as part of a 3-year monitoring program of shrubsteppe habitat in north-central Oregon. We evaluate nesting success with respect to laying date, nest height, and annual variation in failure rate. We demonstrate three types of analyses: Kaplan-Meier estimation (a nonparametric method), Cox proportional hazards model (a semiparametric method), and Weibull parametric regression. Using these maximum-likelihood methods one can carry out likelihood-ratio tests and Akaike's Information Criterion model selection. The best predictive model included the effects of date and year. Nest failure rate changed during the nesting cycle and was heterogeneous among nests, thus violating assumptions of the Mayfield method. We discuss drawbacks to the use of logistic regression (another Mayfield alternative) to analyze nest success. Estimates of the age of a nesting attempt upon discovery are required for survival time analysis; we encourage ornithologists to collect such information. /// Los ornitlogos generalmente utilizan el mtodo de Mayfield para estimar la sobrevivencia de los nidos, un mtodo que produce estimaciones relativamente poco sesgadas siempre y cuando se cumplan sus suposiciones claves. Sin embargo, este mtodo no es capaz de modelar estadsticamente los fracasos de nidificacin en relacin con variables cuantitativas, ni tampoco puede considerar el efecto conjunto de dos o ms variables independientes. Aqu, demostramos el uso de un mtodo alternativo, el anlisis de tiempo de sobrevivencia, el cual puede incorporar nidos que son encontrados en diferentes tiempos durante el ciclo de nidificacin y tambin nidos cuyo resultado final es desconocido. El mtodo permite examinar la variacin en la mortalidad de nidos durante el transcurso del perodo de nidificacin. Con el fin de demostrar este mtodo, analizamos datos de nidos de Lanius ludovicianus colectados como parte de un programa de monitoreo del hbitat de estepa arbustiva durante un perodo de 3 aos en Oregon nor-central. Evaluamos el xito de nidificacin con respecto a la fecha de puesta, altura del nido y variacin anual en la tasa de fracaso. Demostramos tres tipos de anlisis: estimacin de Kaplan-Meier (un mtodo no paramtrico), modelos de riesgo proporcional de Cox (un mtodo semi paramtrico) y regresin paramtrica de Weibull. Utilizando estos mtodos de mxima verosimilitud uno puede seleccionar modelos realizando pruebas de cocientes de verosimilitudes y utilizando el criterio de informacin de Akaike. El modelo con mayor capacidad predicativa incluy los efectos de la fecha y el ao. La tasa de fracaso de nidos vari durante el ciclo de nidificacin y fue heterognea entre nidos violando as, las suposiciones del mtodo de Mayfield. Discutimos las desventajas del uso de regresiones logsticas (otra alternativa al mtodo de Mayfield) para el anlisis del xito de los nidos. Para el anlisis de tiempo de sobreviviencia se requiere la estimacin de la edad de un intento de nidificacin en el momento de ser descubierto, por lo que sugerimos a los ornitlogos colectar dicha informacin. 
10.2307/1369662|A variety of observations indicate that the carotenoid-based coloration of male House Finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) is an honest signal of quality. Plumage redness in this species positively reveals male nutritional condition, over-winter survival, and nest attentiveness. As a result, in the breeding season, male House Finches with brighter ornamental plumage are preferred by females as social mates over males with drabber plumage. In the nonbreeding season, however, bright red plumage does not seem to confer an advantage in aggressive interactions, as males with drabber plumage tend to dominate males with brighter plumage. We investigated this apparent paradox by conducting a breeding-season dominance experiment using captive males. We paired unfamiliar males of contrasting plumage brightness in a series of dominance trials during the breeding season and found that drabber males were dominant to brighter males in competition for access to food. Furthermore, in two captive flocks of males, plumage brightness was significantly negatively associated with social dominance. Although we have no conclusive evidence to explain why drab male House Finches are dominant to bright males throughout the year, we believe that motivational asymmetry may contribute to the observed negative correlation between signal intensity and signaler quality ("negatively correlated handicap"). Drab males may be more willing to compete for access to food or to females than are bright males because of the nutritional and/or mating disadvantages from which they suffer.
10.2307/1368074|Epiphytes are a common component of neotropical forests, but their importance to birds at the community level and their role in contributing to tropical bird diversity has only rarely been considered. Literature accounts from 55 studies document 193 species of neotropical birds that take nectar, fruits, invertebrates, water, and nesting materials from epiphytes. To quantify the amounts and types of resources provided by epiphytes compared to host trees, we watched birds in 14 forest and pasture sites (1,350-1,420 m) for 2 months in a lower montane landscape of Costa Rica. During our 289 hr of observations from within the canopy and on the ground, 33 of 56 bird species observed in foraging visits foraged in resources provided by epiphytes. Epiphyte resources were involved in 32% of all foraging visits. For eight bird species, 40% or more of all foraging visits involved epiphyte use, which included foraging for fruits, nectar, invertebrates, water, and nesting materials. Six types of bird foraging behaviors in six types of epiphytes are described and compared to bird use of tree resources. Some birds appeared to specialize on particular epiphyte resources such as invertebrates in crown humus. The frequent epiphyte use by a large number of bird species indicates that epiphytes constitute a resource that has generally been overlooked in past bird community studies. We discuss two ways that epiphytes may contribute to high tropical bird species diversity.
10.2307/1368802|A long term mark-recapture study was conducted on a montane population of migratory sparrows to determine interannual variations in numbers of young produced, the behavior and physiology of young birds once independent from parental care, and their return in subsequent years as a function of sex, calendar date, birth date, and birth location. Measures of natal dispersal distance and subsequent involvement in breeding were also obtained. Sex ratio of nestlings was 1:1 but 28% more independent juvenile males than females were trapped. Return rates were 6.8% for nestlings and 12.2% for independent juveniles and were higher in males than in females in both groups. Numbers of young trapped on the study area showed a three-fold interannual variation which was attributed to the impact of snowpack on reproductive success. Following completion of molt juveniles fattened quickly and departed on migration in late September but not before most had traveled some distance from their birth site. Date of arrival on the breeding grounds from wintering quarters was not appreciably affected by age (1-year olds vs. 2-year olds +) and although males tended to arrive ahead of females, the sexes overlapped greatly in their schedules. Return rates of yearlings, among those handled as independent juveniles, were about 8 to 15%; no matter the sex or the duration they were known to linger as juveniles on a study area meadow, except for a group of males that stayed for more than four weeks. Members of this group were highly philopatric, having a return rates of 28.5%. Time spent on the same meadow as a juvenile did not affect the ability of either sex subsequently to attain breeding status although more yearling females than males were known breeders, 62.1% vs. 43.6%. The majority of yearlings (recruits) appearing on the study area each year were captured for the first time as adults. This group, called adult recruits, comprised 68.7% of the yearling males and 82.5% of the yearling females. In females, adult recruits were as successful at attaining breeding status as were juvenile recruits (birds captured and banded on the study area previously as juveniles). In males, however, previous familiarity with the area may have enhanced success because the number of known breeders was 10% higher in juvenile recruits than in adult recruits. Return rates peaked at about 10% in both sexes born 10-20 July and decreased thereafter. This was attributed to increased mortality in late-born young due to inadequate preparation time for migration. Returns of females, but not males, also decreased in those born before 10 July. This was attributed to a propensity for postfledging dispersal distances of females to increase with available time. Natal dispersal (distance from birth nest to first nest as a yearling) was greater in females than in males but sample sizes were small and the difference was not significant. Close inbreeding was rare. It occurred once in 473 pairings. Finally, the data are incorporated into a descriptive model of natal dispersal which suggests that natal dispersal is temporally divided, one part occurring in juveniles during the post-fledging period and the other in yearlings soon after arrival at potential breeding areas. Natal dispersal distances tend to be greater and apparent philopatry lower in females than in males because females are more vagile as juveniles and they establish larger home ranges which they may enlarge even further as yearlings while in the process of choosing breeding sites. Current hypotheses concerning sexual asymmetries in dispersal are considered and expanded upon, a key addition being the proposal that intrasexual competition in females may contribute importantly to dispersal patterns in migratory passerines.
1370035| We used radar to count numbers of Marbled Murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) flying inland within 10 river drainages on the Olympic Peninsula, Washington, during 1998-2000. We tested whether the numbers of murrelets entering drainages could be predicted from the amount and spatial configuration of low-elevation, late-seral forest (potential murrelet nesting habitat) within drainages. The maximal number of murrelet radar targets was positively correlated with the amount of late-seral forest in each of the three years sampled; this relationship persisted in 1999 and 2000 when controlling for drainage size. Murrelet radar counts were not correlated with the combined amounts of harvested, developed, and agricultural lands in any year. Numbers of murrelets increased as the amount of core area of late-seral forest and proximity of patches increased, and decreased with increasing amounts of edge of late-seral patches. Numbers were not correlated with the percent of late-seral forest, patch density, patch size, road density, or the overall diversity of all habitat types within landscapes. Neither the maximal nor the mean number of inbound Marbled Murrelets differed among years; the effect of year was small relative to the effect of habitat on murrelet numbers. Our results suggest that changes in the amount or distribution of nesting habitat should result in detectable changes in murrelet numbers at the scale of individual drainages. Thus, the amount and distribution of nesting habitat may play a role in the regulation of Marbled Murrelet populations, supporting the contention that providing nesting habitat is an effective conservation and restoration technique for this species. /// Durante 1998-2000 utilizamos radares para contar el nmero de individuos de Brachyramphus marmoratus que volaron tierra adentro a lo largo de 10 cuencas de ros que desaguan en la Pennsula Olmpica, Washington, USA. Evaluamos si el nmero de individuos de B. marmoratus que entran por las cuencas puede ser predicho por la cantidad y configuracin espacial de bosques de baja elevacin que se encuentran en estados sucesionales tardos (potencial hbitat de nidificacin para estas aves) en cada cuenca. En cada uno de los tres aos, el mximo nmero de individuos de B. marmoratus detectados estuvo positivamente correlacionado con la cantidad de bosque sucesional tardo; luego de controlar por el rea de las cuencas esta relacin persisti en 1999 y 2000. Durante todos los aos, los conteos de B. marmoratus mediante radares no se correlacionaron con la cantidad combinada de tierras cosechadas, desarrolladas y agrcolas. El nmero de individuos de B. marmoratus aument con el rea ncleo de bosque sucesional tardo y con el aumento de la proximidad entre parches, y decreci con el aumento de la cantidad de borde en los parches sucesionales tardos. El nmero de aves no se correlacion con el porcentaje de bosque sucesional tardo, densidad y rea de parches, densidad de calles, ni diversidad total de todos los tipos de hbitats en el paisaje. Ni el nmero mximo ni el promedio de individuos de B. marmoratus que volaron en direccin tierra adentro diferi entre aos; el efecto del ao fue pequeo en comparacin con el efecto del hbitat o del nmero de aves. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los cambios en la cantidad o distribucin de hbitat para la nidificacin deberan resultar en cambios detectables en el nmero de individuos de B. marmoratus a la escala individual de cada cuenca. Por lo tanto, la cantidad y distribucin de hbitat para nidificacin puede jugar un papel importante en la regulacin de poblaciones de B. marmoratus, lo cual apoya la idea que proveer de hbitat para nidificacin es una tcnica efectiva para la conservacin y restauracin de esta especie. 
10.2307/1370279|We investigated breeding readiness of selected migrant species captured at a known stopover site in western New York during the spring of 1995 and 1996. A total of 775 individuals representing 14 species were examined for outward physiological indication of male breeding readiness measured by relative size of cloacal protuberance. Only 2 of the 775 individuals exhibited a cloacal protuberance, both being captured in 1996; one Ruby-crowned Kinglet (Regulus calendula) and one Swainson's Thrush (Catharus minimus). Cloacal lavage samples were taken from 22 White-throated Sparrows (Zonotrichia albicollis) and 26 Swainson's Thrushes during the spring of 1996. None of the migrating individuals lavaged exhibited presence of cloacal sperm regardless of species, sex, time, or date of capture. Poor energetic condition was typical of these captured migratory landbirds. Depleted energetic stores may explain the lack of early sperm production in migrants at this stopover site.
10.2307/1369246|We review the status of North American migrants in Amazonia and present recent records of the authors and co-workers. We report migration dates, maximum counts and new distributional information for 45 species. Included are the first Brazilian records of Piranga olivacea, the first Brazilian specimens of Contopus virens, and records of several shorebirds primarily restricted to coastal areas in South America that were previously unrecorded from inland Amazonia. Amazonia is south of the main wintering areas for most North American passerines; however, at least eight species winter primarily in Amazonia. Amazonia appears to be an important migratory route for many shorebirds, including major portions of the populations of Pluvialis dominica, Calidris fuscicollis, and Calidris melanotos.
10.2307/1368349|We provide the first documentation of Laterallus exilis in Costa Rica. Because of its secretive nature, little is known about this species. We describe the coloration of its soft parts and contrast its vocalizations with those of L. albigularis, a common and sympatric congener. In Costa Rica, L. exilis apparently breeds during the rainy season. Contrary to previous beliefs, L. exilis appears locally common and widespread in Costa Rica. Although it appears most common in wet pastures, its habitat preferences shift seasonally, in response to fluctuating water levels. Because L. albigularis occupies the same types of habitat, we looked for evidence of interspecific interactions. We found that each species responded to playbacks of each other's vocalizations and that seasonal habitat shifts appeared reciprocal. Thus, we suggest that the coexistence of these rails is a dynamic process, mediated by interspecific territoriality and/or aggression.
10.2307/1370283|Defensive behavior of American Redstarts (Setophaga ruticilla) in response to models of a female Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) and a control (Spizella passerina, Passerella iliaca, or Melospiza melodia) placed near their nests was investigated in fragmented and contiguous boreal forest of western Canada. Female redstarts usually discovered and responded first to models but males also participated in nest defense. Based upon several behavioral measures, which included distraction displays, close passes or striking the model, and alarm "chip" or "buzz" vocalizations, female redstarts reacted more intensely or aggressively to the cowbird model in fragmented compared with contiguous forested landscapes. We interpret these differences as evidence that redstarts are more familiar with cowbirds in fragmented landscapes because cowbirds are more common there and pose a greater threat to this host's reproductive success. Our findings have implications for interpretations of the demography of redstart populations and the fixation of antiparasite behavioral responses within populations. We suggest that tests using models provide a viable means of evaluating the influence of landscape matrix on the severity of cowbird exposure to host populations.
10.1525/cond.2010.100020|Anthropogenic subsidies are used by a variety of predators in areas developed for human use or residence. If subsidies promote population growth, these predators can have a negative effect on local prey species. The Glaucous Gull (
10.2307/1369293| In a seven-year study (1983-1989) of banded California Least Terns (Sterna antillarum browni) breeding at Venice Beach, a number of demographic parameters were examined. Survival of breeding adults was found to be age-related, with young breeders age two and three years showing lower return rates than adults equal to or greater than four years. The return rate of banded hatchlings as breeding adults was 0.16, and annual hatchling productivity per individual adult was 1.00. Combining the survival data with available information on intercolony exchange rates, we computed the expected breeding life of an adult (once it has bred) as 9.63 years, with a lifetime productivity of 1.49. The extraordinary El Nio (ENSO) of 1982-1983 had major adverse effects on the population dynamics of the colony for a period of five years. Values were computed for "normal" and "ENSO" years. 
10.2307/1369852| We investigated temporal and spatial variation in the diet of the Common Murre Uria aalge, the most abundant, locally breeding seabird of the central California continental shelf. We collected murres in coastal, mid-shelf, and outer-shelf waters of the Gulf of the Farallones during the murres' pre-breeding (March-April), breeding (May-August), and wintering (September-February) periods, 1985-1988. Diet samples formed persistent groups as a function of these six spatio-temporal combinations of murre foraging habitat and life-history periods. Temporally, diets varied on a seasonal and interannual basis, with diets during winter and El Nio periods being the most disparate. Spatially, diets differed among the three habitats, independent of time. During the pre-breeding season after the onset of upwelling, euphausiids and juvenile rockfish (Sebastes spp.) became prevalent in the diet. Diets were least diverse during the breeding season because of the dominance of rockfish, especially among murres foraging in mid- and outer-shelf habitats. Other important prey were also significant for commercial or sport fishing: Engraulis mordax and Clupea harengus in coastal waters, Merluccius productus and Loligo opalescens in mid- and outer-shelf waters, and surfperch Cymatogaster aggregata and Brachyistius frenatus in coastal and outer-shelf waters (near reefs), respectively. Results support a hypothesis that diet varies as a function of where murres forage. Hence, if the most characteristic prey of one habitat disappears, murres switch foraging areas, bringing a switch in diet. Owing to environmental changes in the region, murres may be losing the option of prey switching as a strategy to maintain an adequate intake of food. 
10.2307/1368718| We studied the postnuptial molt of captive male and female Harris' Sparrows (Zonotrichia querula) exposed to photoperiods simulating those on the breeding grounds and ambient temperatures of 22-25C. Postnuptial molt was completed in about 82 days in individual birds. It began with the loss of P1 and concluded with replacement of contour feathers in the dorsal and ventral body tracts. Peaks of molt intensity essentially coincided in all of the major feather tracts. Intensity was highest between days 28 and 59 of molt. Primaries were replaced in the sequence normal for other passerines, but secondaries exhibited considerable deviation from the typical passerine pattern. Rectrices were often molted centrifugally, from R1 through R6, but several were dropped and replaced simultaneously. Body molt, which is described in all tracts separately, began shortly after P1 was shed and continued until the end of the molt period. Postnuptial molt is protracted and lasts considerably longer in captive Harris' Sparrows than in other North American Zonotrichia which summer either at high northern latitudes or high altitudes. The time-course of molt in Harris' Sparrows suggests that (1) periods of breeding and postnuptial molt may overlap, and (2) postnuptial molt is completed during the fall migration. 
40072418|I investigated variation among 46 populations of the Fox Sparrow (
10.2307/1367348|Analysis of the histories of over 500 Dickcissel (Spiza americana) nests found in eastern Kansas showed that those in old-field habitats suffered more predation than those in prairies. Predation rates on the prairie, were not correlated with the weeks of the nesting season, but those in old-fields varied significantly with time. Although both predation rates and nest densities increased concurrently to a peak during the middle of the nesting season in old-fields, an analysis of the relationship between nest densities per week and both daily predation rates and the percent of nests lost to predators each week indicated that predation was not density-dependent. Predation rates are higher in old-fields than in prairies, not because of greater nest densities, but perhaps because predators are more abundant in old-fields. Snakes are the most probable nest predator, and their method of hunting, by chance encounters rather than by directed search, is suited to the absence of a density-dependent effect of predation on Dickcissel nests.
10.2307/1369466| We examined the thermal consequences, energy benefits and patterns of nighttime communal roosting in Acorn Woodpeckers (Melanerpes formicivorus) during the non-breeding season, the period when they are most reliant on nutrient-poor acorn stores. Because the oak limbs (Quercus) in which Acorn Woodpeckers excavate roost cavities cool more slowly than the surrounding air, the nighttime temperature inside unoccupied woodpecker roost cavities averaged 4.3C higher than the outside ambient temperature, when the latter was approximately 0C. The temperature of occupied roosts was further augmented in proportion to the number of birds sharing the roost. A single woodpecker increased the cavity temperature an additional 1.2C, whereas four birds increased it an additional 6.0C. Acorn Woodpeckers did not huddle together at low air temperatures when placed in a simulated roost-cavity metabolism chamber. Consequently their nighttime, fasted oxygen consumption was independent of group size (one, two, or four birds) and was described by the relation: ml O
1370362| Dreitz et al. (2001) analyzed the factors affecting nest success of the Snail Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) in Florida. They concluded that success was unrelated to water levels because Akaike's Information Criterion rated models with water-level terms as poor compared to other models. Their suite of candidate models, however, did not include models with area-specific differences in the way that water levels affect nest success. We believe that such differences should have been included among the a priori models examined, and that their best model is neither ecologically informative nor useful for management. Using the same statistical methods, we reanalyze Dreitz et al.'s data on nesting success from the five areas with sufficient years and nests for analysis (comprising 89% of their 1542 nests) and show that, when spatial effects of water levels are included, water levels have an important influence on nest success over the entire range of water levels, not just during low water conditions. Furthermore, Dreitz et al.'s definition of nesting attempts excluded nests found during the 10-21 day prelaying period, when many nests fail. Thus, they overestimated nest success and underestimated the amount of nesting activity under low water conditions. Low water conditions occur relatively frequently throughout much of the kite's range, and under these conditions few kites nest and even fewer fledge young. The effects of low water extend well beyond nest success, causing many kites to forgo nesting altogether, shortening the breeding season, and decreasing the opportunity for multiple brooding. /// Drietz et al. (2001) analizaron los factores que afectan el xito de anidacin de Rostrhamus sociabilis en Florida. Ellos concluyeron que el xito no est relacionado con los niveles de agua porque segn el Criterio de Informacin de Akaike, los modelos que incluan trminos relacionados con el nivel de agua eran de poco valor en comparacin con otros modelos. Sin embargo, entre los modelos evaluados no incluyeron aquellos con diferencias especficas de rea en la manera en que los niveles de agua afectan el xito de los nidos. Nosotros creemos que dichas diferencias han debido ser incluidas en los modelos evaluados a priori y que su mejor modelo no es ecolgicamente informativo ni til en trminos de manejo. Utilizando los mismos mtodos estadsticos, reanalizamos los datos de xito de anidacin de Dreitz et al. de las cinco reas que tenan suficientes aos y nidos para analizar (comprendiendo el 89% de sus 1542 nidos). Demonstramos que cuando se incluyen los efectos espaciales de los niveles de agua, stos tienen una influencia importante en el xito de los nidos en todo el rango de niveles de agua (no slo en condiciones de aguas bajas). Ms an, la definicin de intentos de anidacin empleada por Dreitz et al. excluy a aquellos nidos encontrados durante el perodo de 10 a 21 das pre-postura, cuando muchos nidos fracasan. Por lo tanto, ellos sobreestimaron el xito de los nidos y subestimaron la cantidad de actividad de anidacin en condiciones de aguas bajas. Las condiciones de aguas bajas se presentan con relativa frecuencia en gran parte del rango de distribucin de R. sociabilis. Bajo esas condiciones, pocos individuos anidan y an menos cran polluelos exitosamente. Los efectos de aguas bajas se extienden ms all del xito de los nidos, causando que muchos individuos totalmente renuncien a anidar, acortando la poca reproductiva y reduciendo las oportunidades de tener mltiples nidadas. 
10.2307/1369036|We performed protein electrophoresis to detect multiple parentage in broods of the Gray-breasted Jay (Aphelocoma ultramarina), a plural breeder that has been studied since 1969 in southeastern Arizona. We analyzed data from 43 nests (142 nestlings) for which we had blood, muscle, or feather samples from the nestlings and from at least one of the primary adults at a nest. Detection of multiple parentage was complicated by the apparent existence of an undetected (either null or masked) allele at the leu-gly-gly peptidase locus. The undetected allele resulted in offspring with single-banded phenotypes that were inconsistent with the phenotypes of adults with different single-banded phenotypes, assuming simple Mendelian inheritance. Including inconsistencies due to the undetected allele, we detected inconsistencies at 14 nests (33% of total), involving 29 nestlings (20%). We estimate that inconsistencies at seven nests (16%), involving 13 nestlings (8%) were due to causes other than the undetected allele. Inconsistencies at three nests were due to multiple parentage within broods, as the nestlings had double-banded phenotypes. The genetic data for these three nests did not allow us to distinguish between multiple paternity and multiple maternity. Data on clutch size and behavior indicated that multiple paternity was most likely. Inconsistencies at three nests in which nestlings had single-banded phenotypes were likely due to multiple paternity. Inconsistencies at five nests were most parsimoniously explained by an undetected allele present in three generations of one lineage and inconsistencies at two additional nests were likely due to an undetected allele. We attributed inconsistencies at one nest to nest usurpation. We argue that some females may gain a phenotypic benefit from mating with more than one male. Males that mated with a female may be more likely to feed her on the nest and to feed her nestlings.
4151084| Fire alters the structure and composition of shrublands and affects habitat quality for the associated avifauna. Because shrubland ecosystems have been greatly reduced from their original extent in western North America and fire is increasingly being used to manage these landscapes, a better understanding of how fire affects the associated vegetation and wildlife is imperative. We evaluated the response of Green-tailed Towhees (Fipilo chlorurus) to prescribed fire in the montane shrublands of Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado during 2002 and 2003. Three to five years following prescribed burning, Green-tailed Towhee density and shrub cover were generally higher in unburned areas. Nests (n = 179) were located in unburned vegetation; within burned sites, all nests were in remnant patches. Green-tailed Towhee nest survival was 57% (95% CI= 49%65%) across the two years of the study. More than half of the nests were in common juniper (Juniperus communis) shrubs, and nest survival was higher for nests in junipers than those in other shrub species. Daily nest survival rates were lower at the site with the highest density of towhees and declined over the breeding season. With regard to shrub cover, opposite trends were observed for nest-site selection and nest survival: nest plots had greater shrub cover than non-nest plots, but nest survival decreased with increasing shrub cover. Because shrub cover affects towhee density and nest survival in conflicting ways, fire management at Rocky Mountain National Park alters both habitat availability and suitability for Green-tailed Towhees. /// El fuego altera la estructura y composicin de los arbustales y afecta la calidad del hbitat para la avifauna asociada. Debido a que los ecosistemas de arbustales han sido reducidos marcadamente a partir de su extensin original en el oeste de Amrica del Norte y a que el fuego es usado con mayor frecuencia para manejar estos paisajes, es imperativo conocer mejor cmo el fuego afecta la vegetacin y la fauna asociada. Evaluamos la respuesta de Pipilo chlorurus a las quemas prescriptas en los arbustales montanos del Parque National Rocky Mountain, Colorado, durante 2002 y 2003. Luego de tres a cinco aos de las quemas prescriptas, la densidad de P. chlorurus y la cobertura de los arbustos fueron generalmente mayores en la vegetacin no quemada. Los nidos (n =179) estuvieron presentes en los sitios no quemados; en los sitios quemados, todos los nidos estuvieron en los parches remanentes. La supervivencia de los nidos de P. chlorurus fue de 57% (IC 95% = 49%-65%) a lo largo de los aos del estudio. Ms de la mitad de los nidos estuvieron en arbustos de Juniperus communis, y la supervivencia de los nidos fue mayor para los nidos localizados en J. communis que en otras especies de arbustos. La tasa de supervivencia diaria de los nidos fue menor en el sitio con la mayor densidad de P. chlorurus y disminuy a lo largo de la estacin reproductiva. En relacin con la cobertura de arbustos, observamos tendencias opuestas en la seleccin de sitios de nidiflcacin y en la supervivencia de los nidos: las parcelas con nidos tuvieron mayor cobertura de arbustos que las parcelas sin nidos, pero la supervivencia de los nidos disminuy con un incremento en la cobertura de los arbustos. Debido a que la cobertura de los arbustos afecta la densidad de P. chlorurus y la supervivencia de los nidos de modo contrapuesto, el manejo del fuego en el Parque Nacional Rocky Mountain altera la disponibilidad y la aptitud del hbitat para P. chlorurus. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100088|Cues and social information are important in the decisions many animals make to settle. In colonial seabirds, such decisions are based upon information gathered during a prospecting phase, in which for young individuals social information from conspecifics is key. Yet the specific cues that prospectors use, and why, remain debated questions. We used an experimental approach to evaluate a conspecific-attraction hypothesis, predicting that during nocturnal prospecting Ancient Murrelets (
10.2307/1370220|Artificial ground nests were placed in medium-age or older forests adjoining (a) stands of regenerating forest (vegetation < 2 m high) where 'hard' edges were created, and (b) stands of young forest (vegetation 2-8 m high) where 'soft' edges were created. Nests were placed at three distances from the forest edge (0 m, 50 m, and 100 m). Two Northern Bobwhite Quail (Colinus virginianus) eggs were placed in each nest and monitored after 7 and 14 days of exposure between late May and mid-July, 1994. Overall nest predation was 72% after 7 days and 85% after 14 days of exposure. Predation near soft edges was significantly higher than near hard edges after both 7 and 14 days of exposure. Predation near the edges was significantly higher than away from the edges after both 7 and 14 days of exposure. Two motion-sensitive cameras were used to record the identity of predator species. Cameras documented 28 predation events during 1,728 hours of operation, caused by eight species of mammals. The predators included, in order of decreasing predation: fisher (Martes pennanti), Eastern chipmunk (Tamias striatus), red-backed vole (Clethrionomys gapperi), red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus), black bear (Ursus americanus), gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis), and striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis). The relationship between edges, predator assemblages, and nest success is complex; more studies at the landscape level are required to better understand the effects of these factors on avian population dynamics.
10.2307/1370487|We analyze the effectiveness, biases and limitations of a poorly-known emetic, apomorphine, for studying the diet of granivorous birds. Apomorphine was tested on three Fringillids yielding an effectiveness of 43-78%, comparable to that reported for the most common emetic, tartar. The effectiveness of the emetic varied significantly among species, probably due to different physiological tolerances. Older chicks and adults were equally sensitive to apomorphine, but it was ineffective in young chicks. The action of the chemical was not independent of food type, and certain food items were underrepresented with this method. However, the importance of most food categories closely resembled the one found through dissection. Mortality caused by exposure to apomorphine was low (< 3%) and successive applications of apomorphine proved to be innocuous, thus allowing for long term studies. Yet, the effectiveness of apomorphine decreased when administered repeatedly within a short time. Apomorphine is an advisable tool for laboratory and field work on granivorous passerines because it is effective, practically harmless, provides reliable results, and can be used repeatedly and easily both with nestlings and adults.
10.2307/1369511|I measured annual survivorship, breeding dispersal and mate/site fidelity in a color-banded population of Eastern Kingbirds (Tyrannus tyrannus) breeding in central New York from 1989 through 1994. I also sought to identify the factors that led to breeding dispersal and to test whether breeding philopatry was based on site or mate fidelity. Survivorship of males did not differ between the first (0.64) and all subsequent years of banding (0.73), and overall, males returned at a higher rate than females. Female survival in the first year following banding (0.68) exceeded that for all subsequent years (0.51). The difference between the sexes and between banding classes of females may be related to high costs of reproduction in older females. Breeding-site fidelity was very high (96% and 72.5% of males and females, respectively, reused former territories), but females dispersed significantly farther than males between breeding seasons. Site fidelity of males was not reduced significantly by poor nest success in the past year, and was independent of whether or not the female returned to breed. Females often dispersed between seasons after nest failures, but were even more likely to move if the male failed to return. Furthermore, 86.5% of pairs reunited when both partners were known to have returned from migration. Female philopatry thus seemed to be influenced heavily by mate fidelity. Females that renested with a former mate advanced their breeding date by about four days for every year of experience together, but they did not lay larger clutches or fledge more broods than females that nested with a new male. Reunited pairs thus made a rapid transition from migration to egg-laying.
10.2307/1370065|We analyzed the effect of the shrimp fishery on Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) in two ways: (1) we determined whether penguins were incidentally killed and the magnitude of incidental take, and (2) estimated the overlap between penguin diet and fish by-catch of the shrimp fishery (total capture excluding shrimp and seabirds). We worked with the fishing fleet operating at Golfo San Jorge with onboard observers over 200 days in 1995-1997, sampling fishery by-catch and entangled birds. Penguins were affected during the austral summer. Estimations of mortality rates showed 0.33% of the breeding population at Golfo San Jorge is incidentally killed by the shrimp fishery every summer. By-catch in shrimp fishery nets was composed of species important as penguin prey (anchovy and hake) in higher proportions during summer. The daily by-catch of these species was higher than the total calculated daily intake for all penguins breeding in the Golfo San Jorge. This could have a significant effect on birds. We recommend that an observer program be implemented to monitor seabird mortality and that fishing gear should be improved to reduce the indirect effect of the fish by-catch on penguins.
40072386|Despite their likely ecological importance, the basic biology of Cooper's (
10.2307/1369363|Three species of ground-nesting birds of the shortgrass prairie demonstrate contrasting strategies in nest placement: nests of Lark Buntings (Calamospiza melanocorys) are situated beneath shrubs or bunch grasses, whereas nests of McCown's Longspurs (Calcarius mccownii) and Horned Larks (Eremophila alpestris) are associated with sparse cover and are relatively exposed. Nests of these species exhibited a reduction in ambient wind velocity by at least an order of magnitude. Spatial orientation of vegetation around nests did not indicate the degree to which nests were sheltered from wind, however. Nests of Lark Buntings were placed on the leeward side of shrubs, but vegetation apparently did not function as wind breaks. Profiles of the relative wind velocity at nests (nest-cup versus ambient wind velocities) documented that exposed nests of longspurs and Horned Larks were more sheltered from wind than nests of Lark Buntings. The association of bunting nests with overhanging vegetation instead may be in response to radiative cover. Nests of Lark Buntings were completely shaded 60% of the day compared to 45% for nests of longspurs and larks. Furthermore, bunting nests were shaded 40% of midday hours when solar intensity was at a maximum; nests of longspurs and larks were shaded only 5% and 13%, respectively, during this period. Buntings begin breeding later in the season than either longspurs or Horned Larks and thus are exposed to higher ambient temperatures and decreased winds. Buntings are unique among the three species in that males incubate. Given that males have black plumage, opportunities for radiative cover and convective cooling may be important for nest placement in this species. In contrast, early-nesting longspurs and larks may accrue thermal benefits from increased exposure of nests to solar radiation.
1369685|We documented effects of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) parasitism on Chipping Sparrows (Spizella passerina) in southwest Colorado. Overall, 17 of 77 nests (22%) were parasitized. Abandonment was significantly higher among parasitized nests (29%) than unparasitized nests (5%). More Chipping Sparrows hatched and fledged per unparasitized nest than per parasitized nest. Reduction of host hatching and fledging rates in parasitized nests was attributable to smaller clutch size and higher abandonment. The major source of nest failure was predation, not parasitism; overall, 53% failed from predation, and only 6% failed from parasitism. There were no differences in weight, ulna length, tarsometatarsus length, or length of outermost primary between sparrow nestlings in parasitized and unparasitized nests. Only 18% of cowbird eggs laid resulted in a fledged cowbird. We observed no differences in nest placement or nest concealment between unparasitized and parasitized nests.
3247756|We used mark-recapture methods to estimate age-specific apparent survival rates for male Lesser Prairie-Chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus), a gamebird of conservation concern. A total of 311 male prairie-chickens (135 yearlings, 176 adults) were captured and banded during a 5-year study in southwest Kansas. Time-since-marking models were used to estimate apparent survival after first capture (
10.2307/1369891|We investigated morphological variation in Brown-headed Cowbirds Molothrus ater in the Okanagan Valley, southern British Columbia, Canada. We found that cowbirds were significantly differentiated in body measurements (wing, tail, tarsus, and culmen lengths) from both western subspecies, M. a. artemisiae and M. a. obscurus. The pattern of differentiation in body shape suggests Okanagan Valley cowbirds are not hybrids of the two above-mentioned subspecies, contra the situation in northern California. Rather, the Okanagan birds appear to have been present and isolated there for sufficient time for morphological differentiation to have occurred. This finding calls into question the hypothesis that many cowbird hosts do not recognize the parasite's eggs because of the recency of arrival of the cowbird in western North America.
1370046| Many birds, including some parrots, may adjust the sex ratio of their offspring in relation to the relative fitness benefits of sons and daughters. We investigated nestling sex ratios in Yellow-naped Amazons (Amazona auropalliata) using a molecular sexing technique that amplifies intronic regions of the CHD-W and CHD-Z genes in birds. We examined all nestlings in 37 complete clutches comprising 77 chicks. The overall nestling sex ratio did not differ from unity. Sex allocation was not associated with hatch date, sequence of hatching, or clutch size. We also found no difference in sex ratio between two regional dialects. Female Yellow-naped Amazons may be unable to control their hatchling sex ratio. Alternatively, there may be no fitness benefits to females producing more of one sex in relation to the factors we measured here. /// En muchas aves, incluyendo los loros, la proporcin de sexos en la progenie puede ajustarse en relacin a los beneficios relativos de adecuacin biolgica de hembras y machos. Dichas tasas fueron investigadas en Amazona auropalliata por medio de una tcnica molecular de determinacin sexual por la cual se amplifican regiones intrnicas de los genes CHD-W y CHD-Z de aves. Se examinaron todos los pichones de 37 nidadas completas, constituidas por 77 pichones. La proporcin de sexos total no result diferente a uno. La asignacin sexual no estuvo correlacionada con la fecha de eclosin, la secuencia de eclosin, ni el tamao de la nidada. Tampoco se encontraron diferencias en las proporciones de sexos entre dos dialectos vocales regionales. Las hembras de A. auropalliata podran no tener la habilidad de controlar la proporcin de sexos de su progenie. Alternativamente, es posible que en trminos de adecuacin biolgica, no haya diferencia en el beneficio de producir una progenie enriquecida en un sexo determinado con respecto a los factores medidos en este estudio. 
10.2307/1368951|Although the ecological and evolutionary bases of cooperative breeding have received close scrutiny, few studies have explored the physiological mechanisms responsible for delayed breeding by helpers. We chose the Florida Scrub Jay, Aphelocoma c. coerulescens, to determine whether breeders and nonbreeders have different hormone profiles during the reproductive season. We found that male nonbreeders had significantly lower testosterone levels and higher progesterone levels than did male breeders. Nonbreeder and breeder males had similar plasma levels of corticosterone. Elevated plasma levels of progesterone in nonbreeder males may interfere with the reproductive activity at the behavioral or physiological level. Alternatively, progesterone may enable these nonbreeding males to express parental behavior in the absence of a parent/offspring relationship, but the occurrence of the highest levels of progesterone during nest building and egg laying supports the former interpretation. In females, we found that nonbreeders had significantly lower levels of estradiol and corticosterone than breeders. The low levels of primary sex steroid hormones in male and female nonbreeders may physiologically and behaviorally inhibit reproductive activity and suggest that these individuals are reproductively incompetent. The absence of high levels of corticosterone in nonbreeders suggests that this reproductive inhibition is not due to glucocorticoid-mediated stress imposed by dominant breeders.
1370358| The White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus) is one of the few socially monogamous species within the highly polygynous grouse subfamily (Tetraoninae). I found White-tailed Ptarmigan in Glacier National Park, Montana, to be nearly genetically monogamous. Of 58 chicks with putative fathers identified, three were the result of extra-pair copulations (5%). Three of 18 clutches (17%) contained extra-pair offspring. I suggest that White-tailed Ptarmigan males are able to guard their females effectively from extra-pair copulations because of high visibility in their habitat and their ability to forage alongside their mate. The three extra-pair offspring were sired by unknown males. /// Lagopus leucurus es una de las pocas especies socialmente mongama dentro de la subfamilia Tetraoninae que se caracteriza por ser altamente polgina. En el "Glacier National Park," Montana, encontr que los individuos de L. leucurus eran casi completamente mongamos en trminos genticos. De 58 polluelos con padres putativos, tres (5%) fueron el resultado de copulaciones extra-pareja. Tres de 18 nidadas (7%) presentaron hijos extra-pareja. Sugiero que los machos de L. leucurus son capaces de proteger efectivamente a sus hembras para evitar copulaciones extra-pareja debido a la alta visibilidad del hbitat en que se encuentran y a la habilidad de forrajear junto con la hembra. Los tres hijos de origen extra-pareja no fueron engendrados por machos que estaban en pareja. 
10.2307/1367133|Colonial seabirds that nest in stable, predictable environments tend to breed with the same mate for consecutive seasons. In some of these populations, mate retention has been shown to be correlated with previous reproductive success. Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) were observed in northeastern Lake Michigan at several colony sites that vary in stability because of fluctuating water levels. Objectives of my study were to determine if (1) individuals tend to keep the same mate for consecutive breeding attempts, (2) mate retention is influenced by previous reproductive success or inter-year nest site stability, and (3) reproductive success is affected by mate change. Only 25% of the original pairs bred together for consecutive seasons, mate retention was independent of reproductive success the previous year but not of inter-year nest site stability, and I found no significant advantage in retaining the same mate for consecutive seasons. These results indicate that factors other than previous reproductive success (e.g., habitat stability) influence mate selection and retention in this population of Caspian Terns. Caution should be exercised in assuming that the relationship between mate retention and previous reproductive success holds for other species of colonial seabirds.
4151077| We studied wintering Willow Flycatchers (Empidonax traillii) in two seasonal freshwater wetland habitats in northwestern Costa Rica during five boreal winters, to determine habitat occupancy, overwinter and between-year site and territory fidelity, and the degree to which the sexes maintain and defend winter territories. Both males and females used agonistic displays, song, and other vocalizations to maintain and defend mutually exclusive winter territories. Males were generally more abundant than females, but this varied by site and year. There was no significant difference in male and female territory size, nor any indication of sexual habitat segregation. Similarity in morphology and aggressiveness between the sexes may account for the lack of habitat segregation and the ability of females to maintain territories at wintering sites. Each year, 80%-92% of banded flycatchers that were present in midwinter remained at the site until late winter; of these, 86%-100% of individuals maintained the same territories throughout the entire period. We also observed nonterritorial floaters that subsequently established and held winter territories. Between-year site fidelity averaged 68%, and almost all returning birds established territories with boundaries similar to the previous year. Between-year apparent survivorship estimates ranged annually from 54%-72%, with no difference between sites but weak support for higher survivorship of males compared to females. Values for winter site and territory fidelity were generally higher than those reported for other species and for Willow Flycatchers on the breeding grounds; between-year survivorship estimates were similar to those reported for breeding flycatchers. /// Estudiamos individuos de Empidonax traillii que se encontraban invernando en dos hbitats de humedales estacionales de agua dulce en el noroeste de Costa Rica durante cinco inviernos boreales. Determinamos la ocupacin de hbitat, la fldelidad de sitio y de territorio durante el invierno y entre aos, y el esfuerzo de los sexos para mantener y defender sus territorios de invierno. Tanto las hembras como los machos utilizaron despliegues agonsticos, cantos y otras vocalizaciones para mantener y defender sus territorios de invierno, que son mutuamente exclusivos. Los machos fueron en general ms abundantes que las hembras, pero esta diferencia vari entre sitios y aos. No hubo diferencia significativa entre el tamao de los territorios de las hembras y de los machos, y no se observ nada que indicara segregacin de hbitat entre sexos. La similitud en la morfologa y la agresividad entre sexos puede estar dando cuenta de la falta de segregacin de hbitat y de la capacidad de las hembras de mantener territorios en los sitios de invernada. Cada ao, el 80% al 92% de las aves anilladas que se encontraban presentes a mediados del invierno permanecieron en el sitio hasta fines del invierno, y de estos, el 86% al 100% de los individuos mantuvieron el mismo territorio durante todo el periodo. Tambin observamos individuos flotantes sin territorio que establecieron y mantuvieron territorios ms tarde. La fldelidad de sitio entre aos fue del 68% en promedio, y casi todas las aves que retornaron establecieron territorios con bordes similares a los del ao anterior. La supervivencia aparente estimada entre aos vari anualmente entre 54% y 72% sin que existan diferencias entre sitios, pero con una diferencia, apoyada dbilmente, de mayor supervivencia para los machos que las hembras. Los valores de fidelidad de sitio y de territorio fueron ms altos que los reportados para otras especies y para esta misma especie en los sitios de cra. Las estimaciones de supervivencia entre aos fueron similares a aquellas reportadas para E. traillii en los sitios de cra. 
1369691|We studied female responses to experimental intraspecific brood parasitism (IBP), or egg-dumping, in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor). Unlike other species of swallows, Tree Swallow nests are rarely parasitized by conspecifics. We experimentally parasitized nests of Tree Swallows to investigate how females respond to uncertain maternity. Host females accepted a parasitic egg if it was added to the nest within 3 days of the host's first egg (62%). In contrast, the host female buried the parasitic egg (24%) or deserted the nest (14%) when the parasitic egg was added 4 or more days before the host's first egg. The acceptance of parasitic eggs close to the host's own laying date is similar to the behavior reported for other species; however, egg burial and nest desertion appear to be rare as responses to intraspecific brood parasitism. We suggest that the low level of IBP in Tree Swallows has evolved as an indirect consequence of females defending their nest cavity against usurpation.
10.2307/1369469| Here I report the results of intensive observations of breeding behavior in the Stripe-backed Wren Campylorhynchus nuchalis of Venezuela, a polyandrous cooperative breeder. The breeding season in this species begins soon after the first rainfall of the wet season, and its onset is marked by conspicuous courtship of the dominant female by the dominant male and by subordinate males that are not sons of the dominant female. Copulations, of which an estimated nine occur per breeding attempt, take place in plain view and throughout the day but not in close temporal association with courtship. The amount of food provided to nestlings varies greatly among adult group members but is not correlated either to their relatedness to the young or their dominance status. Stripe-backed Wrens defend their nests vigorously, chasing dozens of species away including predators, nest competitors and the Shiny Cowbird, which parasitized at least 16% of nests surveyed in 1990 and 1991 and which appears to reduce severely the reproductive success of large and small groups alike. /// Aqui presento los resultados de observaciones intensas del comportamiento reproductivo del Cucarachero Chocorocoy Campylorhynchus nuchalis de Venezuela, un reproductor polindrico y cooperativo. La estacin reproductiva de esta especie comienza poco despus de la primeras lluvias de la poca lluviosa, y su comienzo es marcado por el cortejo conspicuo hacia la hembra dominante por el macho dominante y por machos subordinados que no son hijos de la hembra dominante. Las copulaciones, de las cuales se estima que ocurren nueve por intento de apareo, acontecen a plena vista y durante todo el dia, pero nunca en proximidad temporal con el cortejo. La cantidad de alimento provedo a los pichones varia grandemente entre los adultos de cada grupo, pero no est correlacionada ni con parentesco, ni con nivel de dominancia. Los cucaracheros defienden sus nidos vigorosamente, persiguiendo a dozenas de especies inclusive depredadores, competidores, y a los Tordos Mirlos Molothrus bonariensis, aves que parasitizan por lo menos el 16% de los nidos vistos en 1990 y 1991, y las cuales parecen reducir severamente el xito reproductivo de grupos grandes y pequeos por igual. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090199|Age- and sex-specific survival and dispersal are important components in the dynamics and genetic structure of bird populations. For many avian taxa survival rates at the adult and juvenile life stages differ, but in long-lived species juveniles' survival is logistically challenging to study. We present the first estimates of hatch-year annual survival rates for a sea duck, the King Eider (
10.1525/cond.2011.100123|We evaluated how grazing affects bird assemblages in short and tall coastal salty grasslands at Samborombn Bay, Argentina. We studied ranches with three patterns of grazing (spatial rotation, continuous, and winter grazing) and a control site, at each censusing birds and surveying vegetation monthly. Results allowed us to compare the various treatments and their effects on endangered birds of short and tall grassland. Three species of special conservation concern showed significant responses to grazing. In short grasslands, the Buff-breasted Sandpiper (
40072411|In northern Venezuela, arid zones are represented by isolated areas, which are important from an ornithological perspective because of the occurrence of restricted-range birds, which depend exclusively on arid scrub for their survival. From September 2004 to August 2005, bird surveys were conducted bimonthly using distance sampling at point counts in six areas of northern Venezuela, which differ in size and geological origin. A total of 21 228 individuals representing 96 species and 26 families were recorded throughout the study areas. Bird species richness, community composition, and species abundance varied among areas. Number of species recorded per area ranged from 37 to 82. An analysis of similarity showed that areas differed in overall community composition based on species presence or absence (Global
10.2307/1368437|We examine sexual size dimorphism in Great Frigatebirds (Fregata minor) on Johnston Atoll and Christmas Island, Central Pacific Ocean, using univariate and multivariate analyses. Adults are larger on Johnston than on Christmas in the four variables measured (culmen, wing, tail, and mass), but greater dimorphism between the sexes exists on Christmas. We relate these morphological data to environmental variability and predictibility and the various published hypotheses on the evolution of sexual size dimorphism.
10.2307/1370070|We quantified the efficacy of using pellet numbers to estimate predation rates on Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) ducklings by Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) by using eider ducklings fitted with radio transmitters. Ducklings fitted with radio-transmitters were no more vulnerable to gull predation than were other ducklings. The recovery of radio-transmitters attached to eider ducklings and subsequently retrieved from Great Black-backed Gull pellets suggests that traditional methods of estimating the number of eider ducklings eaten by gulls from the remains found in pellets at gull nests and loafing areas underestimates the true number eaten by gulls by a factor of 5-17. Previous low estimates of eider duckling mortality on the Wolves Archipelago, Bay of Fundy cannot be explained by movements of broods to the mainland coast.
10.2307/1370090|In response to the critique by Schmidt and Whelan (1999), we find that the relationship between nest success and tree selectivity is dependent upon inclusion or exclusion of particular tree species, whether or not years are pooled, and the selectivity index used. We question their use of point estimates of nest success with extremely high variances, defend our index, question the application of the Chesson (1983) index to our data, and explain the need to analyze years separately. Bottomland hardwood forest systems are extremely variable; hydroperiods alter the suitability of nesting substrates, availability of alternative food, and behavior of predators and their prey. Given these features, actively searching for Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens) nests is seldom an efficient predator foraging strategy. Therefore, these predation events are best described as random; nests are principally encountered opportunistically by generalist predators while searching for other prey.
1370644| We surveyed electrophoretic variation and examined population structuring in the endangered Black-capped Vireo (Vireo atricapillus), a species whose distribution is closely tied with a successional habitat. Seventeen presumptive loci were resolved from blood from individuals in four populations in Texas and Oklahoma. Mean heterozygosity in the Black-capped Vireo was 0.058. A significant departure from random mating expectations was detected in only 1 of 26 comparisons. Highly significant differentiation was observed among populations (mean  = 0.17). Although the high levels of differentiation suggest limited exchange between populations, most of the differentiation was due to divergence at two loci. The relatively high heterozygosity and the association with successional habitats suggest a source-sink population dynamic with new habitat patches colonized from several source populations. Our results suggest that management of this species should focus on its habitat preferences and conserving connectivity between patches rather than on concerns of loss of heterozygosity. /// Inspeccionamos la variacin electrofortica y examinamos la estructura poblacional en la especie amenazada Vireo atricapillus, cuya distribucin est fuertemente relacionada con los ambientes sucesionales. Analizamos 17 presuntos loci a partir de muestras de sangre de individuos provenientes de cuatro poblaciones de Texas y Oklahoma. La heterocigocidad en V. atricapillus fue 0.058. Una diferencia significativa de las expectativas de apareamiento al azar fue detectada en slo 1 de 26 comparaciones. Se observ una diferenciacin altamente significativa entre las poblaciones (media  = 0.17). Aunque los altos niveles de diferenciacin sugieren que existe un intercambio limitado entre las poblaciones, la mayor parte de la diferenciacin se debi a las divergencias en dos loci. La heterocigocidad relativamente alta y la asociacin con ambientes sucesionales sugiere una dinmica poblacional de tipo fuente-sumidero con nuevos parches de hbitat colonizados desde varias poblaciones fuente. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el manejo de esta especie debera enfocarse en sus preferencias de hbitat y en conservar la conectividad entre parches, ms que en preocupaciones sobre prdida de heterocigocidad. 
10.2307/1370492|Sexually dimorphic species generally are characterized by having one sex consistently larger, and often brighter, than the other. Semipalmated Plovers (Charadrius semipalmatus) exhibit a pattern of mixed dimorphism with females that are heavier and having longer wings than males, whereas males have longer toes and bills, and are more colorful than females. Although we found weak evidence that male and female plovers mate assortatively with respect to body size, this likely resulted from birds of certain phenotypes breeding at different times. The mixed pattern of dimorphism in Semipalmated Plovers has probably resulted from different selection pressures, ecological and sexual, operating on different characters.
10.1525/cond.2011.100070|It is often assumed (explicitly or implicitly) that animals select habitat features to maximize fitness. However, there is often a mismatch between preferred habitats and indices of individual and population measures of performance. We examined the influence of fine-scale habitat selection on the overall population performance of the White-tailed Ptarmigan (
4096557| The risk-disturbance hypothesis asserts that animals perceive human disturbance similar to nonlethal predation stimuli, and exhibit comparable responses in the form of optimization tradeoffs. However, few studies have examined how natural predation risk factors interact with human-disturbance stimuli to elicit such responses. We observed American Oystercatcher (Haematopus palliatus) vigilance behavior from September-December 2002 on the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge, South Carolina. A set of models was constructed based on 340 focal-animal samples and models revealed relationships between vigilance behavior, predator density, and boat activity. Oystercatchers increased vigilance in response to aerial predators, particularly late in the season when predator species composition was dominated by Northern Harriers (Circus cyaneus). At a broader temporal scale, oystercatchers exhibited the highest vigilance rates during simultaneous peaks in boating disturbance and Osprey (Pandion haliaetus) activity. Due to this temporal overlap of stimuli, it is difficult to interpret what may have been driving the observed increased in vigilance. Foraging rates appeared to be primarily driven by habitat and tidal stage indicating that time lost to vigilance did not effectively reduce intake. Taken together, these findings provide some support for the risk-disturbance hypothesis, underscore the sensitivity of disturbance studies to temporal scale, and draw attention to the potential confounding effects of natural predation risk. /// La hiptesis de riesgo-disturbio propone que los animales perciben los disturbios causados por los humanos de un modo similar a como perciben estmulos de depredacin no letales, y que exhiben respuestas comparables en trminos de compromisos de optimizacin. Sin embargo, pocos estudios han examinado cmo interacta el riesgo natural de depredacin con los estmulos causados por disturbios humanos para causar dichas respuestas. Observamos el comportamiento de vigilancia del ostrero Haematopus palliatus entre septiembre y diciembre de 2002 en el Refugio Nacional de Vida Silverstre Cape Romain, South Carolina. Con base en 340 muestras de animales focales se construyeron una serie de modelos, los cuales mostraron relaciones entre el comportamiento de vigilancia, la densidad de depredadores y la actividad de botes. Los ostreros incrementaron la vigilancia como respuesta a los depredadores areos particularmente hacia el final de la temporada, cuando la composicin de especies de depredadores estaba dominada por Circus cyaneus. A una escala temporal ms amplia, los ostreros presentaron las tasas de vigilancia ms altas durante picos simultneos en los disturbios causados por botes y en la actividad de Pandion haliaetus. Debido a esta superposicin de los estmulos es difcil interpretar cul de ellos habra estado determinando el incremento en vigilancia observado. Las tasas de forrajeo parecieron estar dadas principalmente por el hbitat y la posicin de la marea, lo que indica que el tiempo perdido en vigilancia no redujo la ingestin de alimento efectivamente. En conjunto, estos hallazgos proveen algo de evidencia que apoya la hiptesis de riesgo-disturbio, resaltan la sensibilidad a la escala temporal de los estudios sobre disturbios y enfatizan la necesidad de prestar atencin a la posibilidad de que existan efectos enmascarados del riesgo de depredacin natural. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100077|For reproduction, many arctic-nesting migratory birds rely on nutrients obtained on the breeding grounds, so they devote sufficient time to foraging immediately prior to nesting. However, little is known about the increase in foraging effort necessary to meet the energetic requirements of reproduction. In early June 2006 and 2008, we quantified the proportion of time spent foraging before breeding by a large sea duck, the King Eider (
4096525| We examined changes in body composition of Red Knots (Calidris canutus islandica) following arrival on their High Arctic breeding grounds at Alert, Ellesmere Island, Canada. Knots arrived in late May and early June with large fat and muscle stores. In the next two weeks, fat and protein stores (pectoral muscles) declined, while increases occurred in gizzard, proventriculus, gut length, heart, liver, and possibly gonads. Most stores were used before egg laying occurred and were therefore not available for egg formation. Early development of ova in some females suggests that body stores may be incorporated into the earliest eggs. While stores may be used for survival when conditions are difficult after arrival, their rapid loss and the concomitant increase in other organs suggests that a major function may be to facilitate a transformation from a physiological state suitable for migration to one suitable, and possibly required, for successful breeding. /// Examinamos los cambios en la condicin corporal de individuos de Calidris canutus islandica luego de que stos llegaran a sus territorios reproductivos a altas latitudes en el rtico en Alert, isla Ellesmere, Canad. Los individuos de C. c. islandica llegaron a fines de mayo y comienzos de junio con grandes reservas de grasa y msculo. Durante las dos semanas siguientes, las reservas de grasa y protena (msculos pectorales) disminuyeron, mientras que la molleja, los proventrculos, el largo del intestino, el hgado y posiblemente las gnadas aumentaron de tamao. La mayora de las reservas fueron usadas antes del perodo de puesta de huevos, por lo que stas no estuvieron disponibles para la formacin de los huevos. En algunas hembras, el desarrollo temprano de los vulos sugiere que las reservas corporales pueden ser incorporadas en los primeros huevos. Si bien las reservas pueden ser usadas para sobrevivir en el momento de la llegada cuando las condiciones son difciles, su rpida prdida y el aumento concomitante en otros rganos sugiere que una de las funciones principales de las reservas podra ser facilitar la transformacin de un estado fisiolgico apropiado para la migracin a un estado apropiado y posiblemente requerido para la reproduccin exitosa. 
1370047| We studied the diving behavior of Red-legged Cormorants (Phalacrocorax gaimardi) in Patagonia, Argentina, using VHF radio-transmitters deployed during incubation. Red-legged Cormorants made foraging trips in inshore waters less than 15 m deep. Mean dive duration was 26.8  2.0 sec while mean time at surface was 9.2  0.9 sec (n = 2217 dives). The birds spent 74% of their foraging time underwater. Diving efficiency was different among individuals, and was among the highest reported for the Phalacrocoracidae. Dive variables were correlated with the height of the tide, suggesting that the birds forage on the seabed. Red-legged Cormorants were efficient divers, investing most of their feeding time underwater and foraging in shallow waters, maximizing bottom time. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that Red-legged Cormorant diving behavior is strongly influenced by a combination of environmental variables (bottom heterogeneity and high tide width) characteristic of the south coast of Patagonia. /// Se estudi el comportamiento de buceo del Phalacrocorax gaimardi en Patagonia, Argentina, usando transmisores VHF instalados durante el periodo de la incubacin. P. gaimardi realiz sus viajes de alimentacin en reas costeras poco profundas (<15 m). La duracin media del buceo fue 26.8  2.0 seg y el tiempo medio en superficie de 9.2  0.9 seg (n = 2217). Las aves pasaron bajo el agua un 74% de su tiempo de alimentacin, mostrando una de las eficiencias de buceo ms altas mencionadas para los Phalacrocoracidae. Los parmetros de buceo se correlacionaron con la altura de la marea, sugiriendo que las aves se alimentaron en el fondo marino. Los individuos de P. gaimardi fueron eficientes buceadores, invirtiendo la mayora de su tiempo de alimentacin debajo del agua en aguas someras, maximizando el tiempo en el fondo marino. Nuestros resultados apoyan la hiptesis que P. gaimardi tiene un comportamiento de buceo que responde a las caractersticas ambientales de la costa sur de la Patagonia (heterogeneidad del fondo marino y grandes amplitudes de marea). 
1370525| We studied the timing and frequency of extra-pair copulations and extra-pair fertilizations in the Black-legged Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla), a socially monogamous seabird that breeds in dense colonies. We recorded 313 copulations by 82 marked pairs in 25 000 nest-hr over three years. We recorded only two extra-pair copulations, both of which were obtained by opportunistic males that disrupted pair copulations in progress. Pairs performed a mean of 14 copulations per clutch suggesting that males may copulate relatively frequently for paternity assurance. Our parentage analysis based on eight microsatellite markers did not detect any extra-pair paternity in 119 offspring from 86 broods; however we did detect three cases of adoption caused by chicks moving to adjacent nests. The between-nest movement of a minimum of 8% of chicks suggests that escaping siblicide may be an adaptive strategy for some nestlings, despite the risk of falling into the sea and drowning (observed in 11 of 21 chicks). /// Estudiamos la frecuencia de cpulas y fertilizaciones extra-pareja y el momento en que stas ocurrieron en Rissa tridactyla, un ave marina socialmente mongama que se reproduce en colonias densas. Registramos 313 cpulas por parte de 82 parejas marcadas en 25 000 horas-nido a travs de tres aos. Registramos slo dos cpulas extra-pareja, ambas obtenidas por machos oportunistas que perturbaron cpulas que se estaban efectuando entre miembros de una pareja. Las parejas realizaron un promedio de 14 cpulas por nidada, lo que sugiere que los machos estaran copulando frecuentemente para asegurar su paternidad. Nuestros anlisis basados en ocho marcadores microsatlites no detectaron ninguna instancia de paternidad extra-pareja en 119 cras de 86 nidadas. Sin embargo, detectamos tres casos de adopcin causados por el movimiento de pichones a nidos adyacentes. El movimiento entre nidos de al menos el 8% de los pichones sugiere que escapar del siblicidio podra ser una estrategia adaptativa para algunos de stos, a pesar del riesgo de caer al mar y ahogarse, lo que se observ en 11 de 21 pichones. 
10.2307/1368647|The order in which females settle on territories likely reflects patterns of female choice of territory and/or mates. Yet in most studies of female choice, settlement dates are usually only inferred from dates of nest initiation or first egg date. To test whether there is a close correlation between the order of female settlement and the initiation of nest building or egg laying, we determined the settlement date of female Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) through direct observation. The order of female settlement on territories was not significantly correlated with either the initiation of nest building or first egg date. The interval between settlement and egg laying shortened as settlement date advanced, and females began egg laying during a short period in May, regardless of when they had settled. Some females that we experimentally prevented from settling until early May began egg laying at the same time as females that settled in early April. We suggest that female Tree Swallows are under pressure to settle early due to intense competition for limited nesting sites, but then time their egg laying for mid-May to benefit from synchronous breeding and favorable environmental conditions. We predict that the order of settlement is not closely correlated with initiation of nesting activities by females in other species in which females breed synchronously and have a long interval between settlement and egg laying.
4151075| Life-history theory predicts that longer-lived, less fecund species should take fewer risks when exposed to predation than shorter-lived, more fecund species. We tested this prediction for seven species of dabbling ducks (Anas) by measuring the approach behavior (behavior of ducks when approaching potential landing sites) of 1099 duck flocks during 37 hunting trials and 491 flocks during 13 trials conducted immediately after the 1999-2000 waterfowl hunting season in California, USA. We also experimentally manipulated the attractiveness of the study site by using two decoy treatments: (1) traditional, stationary decoys only, and (2) traditional decoys in conjunction with a mechanical spinning-wing decoy. Approach behavior of ducks was strongly correlated with their life history. Minimum approach distance was negatively correlated with reproductive output during each decoy treatment and trial type. Similarly, the proportion of flocks taking risk (approaching landing sites to within 45 m) was positively correlated with reproductive output. We found similar patterns of approach behavior in relation to other life-history parameters (i.e., adult female body mass and annual adult female survival rate). Thus, species characterized by a slower life-history strategy (e.g., Northern Pintail [A. acuta]) were more risk-averse than species with a faster life-history strategy (e.g., Cinnamon Teal [A. cyanoptera]). Furthermore, although we were able to reduce risk-averseness using the spinning-wing decoy, we were unable to override the influence of life history on risk-taking behavior. Alternative explanations did not account for the observed correlation between approach behavior and life-history parameters. These results suggestthat life history influences the risk-taking behavior of dabbling ducks and provide an explanation for the differential vulnerability of waterfowl to harvest. /// La teora de las historias de vida predice que las especies ms longevas y menos fecundas deberan tomar menos riesgos cuando son expuestas a depredacin que las especies menos longevas y ms fecundas. Evaluamos esta prediccin en siete especies de patos del gnero Anas mediante la medicin del comportamiento de acercamiento (comportamiento de los patos cuando se acercan a sitios de aterrizaje potenciales) de 1099 bandadas de patos durante 37 ensayos de cacera y 491 bandadas durante 13 ensayos desarrollados inmediatamente despus de la estacin de caza de aves acuticas de 1999-2000 en California, Estados Unidos de Amrica. Tambin manipulamos experimentalmente qu tan atractivo resultaba el sitio de estudio mediante el uso de seuelos en dos tratamientos: (1) seuelos inmviles tradicionales, y (2) seuelos tradicionales junto con un seuelo mecnico que bate las alas. El comportamiento de acercamiento de los patos se correlacion fuertemente con su historia de vida. La distancia mnima de acercamiento se correlacion negativamente con el rendimiento reproductive durante cada tratamiento de seuelos y tipo de ensayo. De modo similar, la proporcin de bandadas que tom riesgos (acercndose a menos de 45 m de los sitios de aterrizaje) se correlacion positivamente con el rendimiento reproductivo. Encontramos patrones similares de comportamiento de acercamiento en relacin con otros parmetros de la historia de vida (i.e., masa corporal de las hembras adultas y tasa de supervivencia anual de las hembras adultas). As, las especies caracterizadas por una estrategia de historia de vida ms lenta (e.g., A. acuta) fueron ms reacias a tomar riesgos que las especies con una estrategia de historia de vida ms rpida. (e.g., A. cyanoptera). Adems, aunque pudimos reducir el nivel de aversin a situaciones de riesgo usando el seuelo mecnico, no pudimos reemplazar la influencia de la historia de vida en el comportamiento de toma de riesgos. Las explicaciones alternativas no aclararon la correlacin observada entre el comportamiento de acercamiento y los parmetros de la historia de vida. Estos resultados sugieren que la historia de vida influencia el comportamiento de toma de riesgos de los patos del gnero Anas y brinda una explicacin sobre la vulnerabilidad diferencial de la avifauna acutica a la cacera. 
4122538| Sexual size dimorphism is a conspicuous trait of many wild bird species. Differences in body size between the sexes might reflect selective pressures and trade-offs to optimize performance. Here, we analyze the size dimorphism of the Galpagos Dove (Zenaida galapagoensis) using principal component and discriminant analyses with samples obtained from six islands: Santiago, Santa Fe, Santa Cruz, Espaola, Genovesa, and Wolf. We also reanalyze published morphological data but also including additional samples from Wolf Island to account for morphological differences among islands. Males were significantly larger than females. Discriminant analyses correctly classified 98% of males and 100% of females, and cross-validation of the model correctly classified 97% of males and 98% of females. We created two sexual size dimorphism indices using wing chord and tarsus as body-size surrogates. Significant differences were found in the sexual size dimorphism index for both measurements among islands. Significant differences in sexual size dimorphism among islands might indicate the role of different selective pressures acting on individual islands (e.g., competition, predation, resources, sexual selection), which might result in life history variation of the species among islands. For the first time, we provide significant morphological evidence supporting the classification of the Galpagos Dove into two subspecies: Z. g. galapagoensis and Z. g. exsul. /// El dimorfismo sexual de tamao es una caracterstica comn de muchas especies de aves. Las diferencias en el tamao corporal entre machos y hembras puede reflejar la accin de factores de seleccin y soluciones de costo-beneficio que actan para optimizar el rendimiento de las aves en su ambiente. Analizamos el dimorfismo de tamao de Zenaida galapagoensis por medio de anlisis de componentes principales y anlisis de discriminacin utilizando muestras colectadas en seis islas: Santiago, Santa Fe, Santa Cruz, Espaola, Genovesa y Wolf. Tambin reanalizamos informatin morfolgica previamente publicada, en donde incluimos muestras provenientes de la isla Wolf la cual no estuvo comprendida en el esudio anterior, para analizar diferencias morfolgicas entre las islas. Los machos fueron significativamente ms grandes que las hembras. El anlisis de discriminacin clasific correctamente el 98% de los machos y el 100% de las hembras, el anlisis de validation del modelo de discriminacin clasific correctamente el 97% de los machos y el 98% de las hembras. Creamos un ndice de dimorfismo sexual de tamao utilizando la cuerda alar y el tarso como medidas de tamao corporal. Se encontraron diferencias significativas en el dimorfismo sexual de tamao entre algunos pares de islas para ambas medidas. Diferencias significativas en el dimorfismo sexual de tamao pueden indicar la accin de diferentes presiones selectivas en diferentes islas (e.g., competicin, depredacin, recursos, seleccin sexual), lo cual puede crear variaciones en la biologi de la especie entre las distintas islas. Por primera vez, proveemos resultados morfolgicos significativos que apoyan la separacin de Z. galapagoensis en dos subespecies: Z. g. galapagoensis y Z. g. exsul. 
1370124| We analyzed the nutritional condition and morphological characteristics of wintering Long-billed Murrelets (Brachyramphus perdix) in Japan. These birds were well nourished with an average body mass of 293 g, composed of a mean total body fat of 40.7 g (14%). The fat deposit was equivalent to an average energy reserve of 2.5 days at the estimated energy consumption of 615 kJ day<sup>-1</sup> or 2.1 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. Muscle mass consisted mainly of water (73%) and fat-free dry matter (26%), with small amounts of fat. Uropygial glands consisted of 33% fat and 17% fat-free dry matter, with 48% water. Long-billed Murrelets were characterized by large pectoral (26% of fat-free body mass) and small leg muscles (2% of fat-free body mass). We believe that these muscular traits, which contrast with those of alcids breeding at coastal colonies, reflect specific adaptations to inland nesting and long-distance foraging. /// Analizamos la condicin nutricional y caractersticas morfolgicas durante el perodo de invernada de Brachyramphus perdix en Japn. Estas aves se encontraron bien alimentadas con una masa corporal promedio de 293 g, compuesta por una media de grasa corporal total de 40.7 g (14%). El depsito de grasa fue equivalente a una reserva energtica promedio de 2.5 dias a una tasa de consumo energtico estimada en 615 kJ dia<sup>-1</sup> o 2.1 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> dia<sup>-1</sup>. La masa muscular estuvo representada principalmente por agua (73%) y materia seca libre de grasa (26%), con pequeas cantidades de grasa. Las glndulas uropigiales presentaron 33% de grasa y 17% de materia seca libre de grasa, con un 48% de agua. B. perdix se caracteriza por tener msculos pectorales grandes (26% de la masa corporal libre de grasa) y pequeos msculos en las piernas (2% de la masa corporal libre de grasa). Creemos que estos rasgos musculares, que contrastan con los de aves de la Familia Alcidae que nidifican en colonias en la costa, reflejan adaptaciones especficas para nidificar tierra adentro y forrajear a larga distancia. 
10.2307/1370484|We examined habitat use by 34 species of marine-oriented birds along the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, in 1989-1991 to measure effects of the Exxon Valdez oil spill of March 1989 outside of the immediate spill area in Prince William Sound. Overall, 22 species (65%) did not exhibit statistically significant initial negative impacts on their use of oil-affected habitats. Of the 12 species that did exhibit significant negative impacts on habitat use, 6 showed evidence of recovery by the end of the study in late 1991. Of the 6 species that failed to show clear evidence of recovery, two (Common Merganser and Glaucous-winged Gull) showed no evidence of recovery by 1991, three (Common Loon, Double-crested Cormorant, and Sharp-shinned Hawk) may have begun recovery by 1991, and evaluation of recovery of the sixth species (Ancient Murrelet) was precluded by a lack of data. On individual surveys, the proportion of species recorded that exhibited negative impacts declined through time, from 36% on the first survey after the spill in 1989 to 19% in late 1991. These results indicate that the Exxon Valdez oil spill had significant initial effects on habitat use by some marine-oriented birds along the Kenai, although the majority of species analyzed showed no obvious spill-related effects on habitat use and impacts on several other species were not prolonged.
10.1525/cond.2010.090113|Seasonal migration of a bird from lowlands to montane habitats should induce an increase in its hematocrit value. This relationship has been studied mainly in domestic species, however, and data on wild birds are mostly correlational. We report our results on variation in hematocrit values of the Citril Finch (
4122516| Some bird species utilize snake skins as nesting material, possibly to decrease predation. We constructed 60 artificial nests simulating the nests of Great Crested Flycatchers (Myiarchus crinitus) in nest boxes to test the prediction that snake skins deter nest predators. Twenty of the boxes lacked rat snake (Elaphe obsoleta) skins (control), 20 had a single skin in the nest, and 20 had a skin in the nest and another displayed outside the box. Five of the control boxes were depredated (20%), while none of the experimental boxes were depredated. Our results supported our prediction that use of snake skins would deter mammalian predators, particularly the southern flying squirrel (Glaucomys volans). Although our results suggest a potential adaptive explanation for this behavior, our design did not allow us to address the degree of olfactory or visual detection by the squirrels, and left other potential explanations untested. /// Algunas especies de aves utilizan pieles de serpientes como material en la construccin de sus nidos, posiblemente para reducir la depredacin. Construimos 60 nidos artificiales en cajas que simulaban los nidos de Myiarchus crinitus para poner a prueba la hiptesis de que las pieles de serpientes se utilizan para ahuyentar a los depredadores de nidos. Viente de los nidos artificiales carecan de pieles de la serpiente Elaphe obsoleta, 20 tenan solamente una piel en el nido y 20 tenan una piel en el nido y tambien una piel dispuesta en la parte externa de la caja que contena al nido. Cinco de las cajas de control (20%) fueron depredadas, mientras que ninguna de las cajas con pieles de serpientes fue depredada. Nuestros resultados apoyan la prediccin de que el uso de pieles de serpientes ahuyentara a los mamferos depredadores, especialmente a la ardilla voladora Glaucomys volans. Aunque nuestros resultados sugieren una explicacin adaptativa potencial de esta conducta. nuestro diseo experimental no nos permite conocer el grado de deteccin visual u olfatoria por parte de las ardillas, y deja abiertas otras posibles explicaciones que no han sidos evaluadas. 
10.2307/1368637| Primary molt of the California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus) was studied intensively from 1982 through 1985, using repeated flight photographs of the remaining individuals in the wild population as a basis for most analyses. On the average, wild condors replaced 4.4 of the 8 emarginated primaries on each wing each year. The specific primaries molted were generally the ones missed in the previous year and were usually well-distributed among the eight possibilities, with a tendency for low-numbered primaries to molt earlier than high-numbered primaries. Within individuals, molt of one wing was commonly very different from that of the other wing. Primary molt of captive juveniles was similar to that of wild juveniles. The interval from loss to full replacement of individual primary feathers was normally 3 to 4 months, with the primaries closest to the leading edge of the wing growing most slowly. Most primaries were shed between 1 February and 1 September. Primaries lost in late fall and early winter were not replaced until the following summer, indicating interrupted molt over the winter. In general, primary molt of the condor differs from that of smaller cathartids in being highly seasonal, highly variable in sequence, highly asymmetric between wings, and in following a roughly 2-year cycle. Molt of the condor shows many similarities to that of the White Stork (Ciconia ciconia) and to that of large accipitrid vultures. 
10.2307/1367747|Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) eggs from 35 nests, 7 to 8 days into incubation, were acutely exposed to gamma-radiation doses of about 0.4, 0.8, 1.6 or 3.2 Gy in the laboratory. The naturally incubated eggs were hatched in the laboratory and the young returned to the nests for raising by parents. Transport controls were treated identically, but not irradiated; box controls were left undisturbed in the nests. The overall mean hatching and fledging successes were 92.8% and 71.8%, respectively, and were unaffected by radiation exposure. Nestlings died from several causes including predation and harsh weather. Observed statistics and fitted parameters from the Richards model both indicated depressed growth in the 1.6-Gy and 3.2-Gy nestlings. Radiation exposure increased incubation time and depressed body mass and foot and primary-feather lengths at fledging. Box controls had shorter incubation times and greater hatching body masses than transport controls, suggesting experimental stress factors other than radiation exposure. Data from a few nests showed that chronic doses of about 1.0 Gy d<sup>-1</sup> reduces hatching, but not fledging, success. It also depresses growth far more severely than a 3.2-Gy acute dose. Since Tree Swallow embryos appear to be less sensitive to external gamma-radiation exposure than man, existing protective measures for man should be satisfactory for birds.
10.2307/1367948|A riparian bird community in central Arizona contributed from 23 to 33% of the birds along the adjacent desert washes, and from 7 to 15% of the birds in the adjacent desert upland. Conversely, the desert bird community contributed only from 1 to 1.5% of the birds in the riparian island. Bird density ranged from 336 to 446 birds/40 ha in the riparian core and edge in 1981 and 1982. Bird density in the adjacent desert decreased with distance from the edge of the riparian island to a low of 101 birds/40 ha in 1981, to 137 birds/40 ha in 1982, in the segment 600 to 1,000 m from the riparian edge.
4151054| We conducted a comparative analysis of eight potential correlates of egg rejection in hosts of the parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) to test the evolutionary equilibrium and evolutionary lag hypotheses as explanations for the acceptance of cowbird parasitism. The analyses generally supported evolutionary lag. Historic contact with cowbirds may explain why hosts that have recently come into contact with cowbirds accept parasitism, but it does not account for acceptance by hosts with long histories of contact with cowbirds. Egg predation by hosts, nest sanitation, population size, and egg appearance were not correlated with rejection. Larger species that typically build larger nests were more likely to reject. Large hosts may have been parasitized more frequently in the past, possibly due to their more easily found nests or superiority as hosts, and as a result, may have had more opportunity to evolve rejection. Rejection was also correlated with taxonomic affiliation, suggesting that once rejection evolves it is maintained, which implies that rejection is not costly and thus argues against an evolutionary equilibrium. Not surprisingly, hosts with large bills were more likely to reject. This may be a corollary of the tendency for large hosts, which tend to have larger bills, to reject. An evolutionary equilibrium may exist for hosts with eggs that resemble cowbird eggs, depending on the costs to host reproductive success and the likelihood of committing recognition errors. Nevertheless, some hosts have been in contact with cowbirds for a long time, build large nests, have large bills, have a "favorable" phylogeny, and lay eggs that differ from cowbird eggs, yet accept cowbird parasitism. Chance may play a role in the accumulation of the necessary recombinants and mutations necessary for the evolution of rejection. /// Realizamos un anlisis comparative de ocho factores que potencialmente podran estar correlacionados con el rechazo de huevos por parte de hospederos del parsito de cra Molothrus ater para poner a prueba las hiptesis de equilibrio evolutivo y de demora en la respuesta evolutiva propuestas para explicar la aceptacin del parasitismo. Los anlisis generalmente apoyaron la hiptesis de la demora en la respuesta evolutiva. El contacto histrico con Molothrus podr a explicar por qu hospederos que slo recientemente han entrado en contacto con estas aves aceptan el parasitismo, pero no explica por qu hay hospederos que tienen largas historias de contacto con el parsito y aceptan ser parasitadas. La depredacin de huevos por parte del hospedero, el comportamiento de aseo del nido, el tamao poblacional y la apariencia de los huevos no estuvieron correlacionados con el rechazo de huevos parsitos. Las especies grandes, que tpicamente construyen nidos ms grandes, presentaron una probabilidad ms alta de rechazar huevos. Los hospederos ms grandes podran haber sido parasitados ms frecuentemente en el pasado, posiblemente debido a que sus nidos se encuentran con mayor facilidad o a que son mejores hospederos y, como resultado, podran haber tenido mayores oportunidades evolutivas para desarrollar el comportamiento de rechazar huevos. El comportamiento de rechazo tambin estuvo correlacionado con la filiatin taxonmica, lo que sugiere que una vez que ste evoluciona se mantiene, implicando que no es costoso, lo que a su vez es un argumento en contra de la hiptesis del equilibrio evolutivo. De forma poco sorprendente, los hospederos con picos grandes fueron ms propensos a rechazar huevos. Esto podra ser un corolario de la tendencia de los hospederos grandes (los cuales tienden a tener picos ms grandes) a rechazar huevos. Es posible que exista un equilibrio evolutivo para los casos de hospederos que tienen huevos que se asemejan a los de Molothrus, dependiendo de los costos sobre el xito reproductivo del hospedero y la probabilidad de cometer errores de reconocimiento. Sin embargo, algunos hospederos han estado en contacto con Molothrus por perodos prolongados, construyen nidos grandes, tienen picos grandes, tienen afinidades filogenticas "favorables" y ponen huevos que difieren de los del parsito, y afln as aceptan el parasitismo. El azar podra jugar un papel importante en la acumulacin de los recombinantes y mutaciones necesarios para que el comportamiento de rechazo pueda evolucionar. 
10.2307/1369258|We studied nest-site selection of Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) in a riparian community on the Arapaho National Wildlife Refuge, Colorado, from 1981-1984. Our methodology included (1) comparing nest sites selected by warblers to the structure and vigor of the woody community available as potential sites, (2) experimentally removing shrubs used for nest sites and describing new sites selected, and (3) evaluating the reliability of habitat descriptors measured at nest sites across three years of pooled nest-site information. Warblers built nests proportionally among the seven species of willow (Salix) shrubs in the community. Of the original 34 descriptors of vegetation structure and vigor, 13 were considered insignificant to Yellow Warblers in used-vs.-available comparisons, an additional seven were eliminated comparing nest sites before and after the experimental manipulation of the shrub community, and another three were eliminated with a comparison of nest sites across all three years. In all, 11 descriptors remained after the multiple analyses. Virtually all descriptors of structure and vigor of bushes where warblers built nests were eliminated with the multiple analyses. Birds selected nest sites based primarily upon descriptors of the vegetation patch, the most powerful being those that defined horizontal patterning of bushes within the patch. We conclude that (except for the immediate branch structure supporting the nest) Yellow Warblers select nest sites based upon patch characteristics surrounding the bush where the nest was built rather than on characteristics of the nest bush itself. This behavior probably reflects selective pressures to reduce rates of nest predation and brood parasitism by concealing nests in larger stands of shrubs. Finally, the results of the multiple tests led us to conclude that published information on passerine habitats and habitat selection likely contains a large component of statistically valid, but biologically meaningless, relationships.
10.2307/1369278| We used the doubly labeled water method to measure rates of energy expenditure in free-living Southern Giant-Petrels (Macronectes giganteus, mean body mass = 3.89 kg) at Palmer Station, Antarctica. Despite superficial morphological and behavioral resemblances to the energetically efficient albatrosses, giant-petrels have high energetic costs while foraging, averaging 6.3  SMR (standard metabolic rate), which is much higher than the values for three Diomedea albatrosses (1.8 to 2.7  SMR). The integrated field metabolic rate (FMR, incorporating time spent foraging and brooding) of a giant-petrel is 4,270  668 kJ day<sup>-1</sup>, the highest absolute value yet measured in any bird. Their overall FMR is 4.6  SMR, slightly higher than the suggested upper limit of 4.0  SMR for breeding birds. Compared with similar-sized albatrosses, Southern Giant-Petrels are more heavily wingloaded, they flap more frequently, and they deliver meals more frequently to their chicks. These factors probably contribute to their higher rates of energy expenditure. Giant-petrels breed most abundantly at high latitudes, outside the breeding range of albatrosses. An energy-expensive breeding strategy that incorporates relatively rapid nestling growth and high rates of chick-feeding by adults may account for the success of Southern Giant-Petrels in the short growing season Antarctic habitat. 
10.2307/1368271|Habitat relationships of Gray-breasted Jays (Aphelocoma ultramarina) in southwestern New Mexico were investigated to determine what factors might account for the abrupt termination of this species' range. Habitat variables at 38 sites along a 150 km north-south transect were measured and subjected to multivariate analysis. Patterns derived from this analysis were used to develop a discriminant function based on jay presence or absence. Results indicate that Gray-breasted Jays are tied closely to the densities of mast-producing tree species, and that not all sites seemingly capable of supporting jays are occupied.
1370738| We present the first data on the breeding biology of wild Burrowing Parrots (Cyanoliseus patagonus). We studied chick growth and breeding success at the largest colony of the species in the province of Ro Negro, Patagonia, Argentina, during the 1999-2000 breeding season. A very high fledging success was observed and related to the absence of nest predation and the colonial breeding system. Safe nest sites were also thought to favor large mass recession of the nestlings before fledging. Mortality during the nestling period tended to be higher for fourth and fifth nestlings of a brood, indicating that brood reduction occurred. Burrowing Parrots in the study colony showed large variability in growth parameters between nestlings, possibly related to the hatching asynchrony observed. Allometric relationships for egg mass, clutch size, relative clutch mass, and nestling period of 29 wild psittaciform species are described and compared with the data from the Burrowing Parrots. /// Presentamos aqu los primeros datos de la biologa reproductiva en estado silvestre del loro Cyanoliseus patagonus. Se estudi el crecimiento de los pichones y el xito de nidificacin en la colonia ms importante de la especie (provincia de Ro Negro, Patagonia, Argentina) durante la temporada de cra 1999-2000. Se observ un alto xito de emplumamiento de los pichones relacionado a la ausencia de depredacin en el nido y al sistema colonial de nidificacin que presenta la especie. Los sitios de nidificacin seguros habran favorecido la pronunciada prdida de masa corporal observada en los pichones antes de abandonar el nido. La mortalidad durante el perodo de nidificacin tendi a ser ms alta para el cuarto y quinto pichn de la nidada, indicando la existencia de reduccin de la camada. Los loros de la colonia estudiada mostraron gran variabilidad en los parmetros de desarrollo de los distintos pichones, estando sto posiblemente relacionado con el nacimiento asincrnico de los pichones. Se describen tambin relaciones alomtricas para la masa del huevo, el tamao de la nidada, la masa relativa de la nidada y el perodo de permanencia en el nido de 29 psittaciformes silvestres y se comparan con los datos de C. patagonus. 
4151057|We radio-marked 99 Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) nesting at two colonies, Prince Island and Scorpion Rock, separated by 90 km in the California Channel Islands to quantify foraging distance, individual home-range area, and colony-based foraging areas during three consecutive breeding seasons. Auklets generally foraged <30 km from each colony in all years. Core foraging areas (50 fixed kernel) from Prince Island in 1999-2001 were north to northeast of the colony over the insular shelf near the shelfbreak. Core foraging areas from Scorpion Rock in 2000-2001 occurred in two focal areas: the Anacapa Passage, a narrow interisland passage adjacent to the colony, and over the south-eastern Santa Barbara Channel. During 2000, intercolony foraging areas overlapped by 10 ; however, auklets from each colony used the overlapping area at different times. Equivalent-sample-size resampling indicated Prince Island foraging area (
40306116|The strain of West Nile virus (WNV) currently epidemic in North America contains a genetic mutation elevating its virulence in birds, especially species in the family Corvidae. Although dead American Crows (
10.2307/1369910|We investigated factors affecting duration of incubation in Black Brant (Branta bernicla) during 1992 and 1993 on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, Alaska. Duration of incubation varied with clutch size and decreased with later nest initiation. In contrast to other studies, we found no relationship between incubation period and ambient temperature, mean egg size, or nest attentiveness. We hypothesize that a decrease in incubation length with later first egg date is an adaptation by females to reduce disadvantages of hatching late. We suggest that potential costs of reduced embryonic development time outweigh benefits for females that are able to initiate nesting early because their eggs hatch early enough to maximize recruitment of hatched young. For females that nest late, however, advantages to reproductive success of hatching earlier may outweigh costs of reduced development time.
10.1525/cond.2011.090233|From 2001 to 2008, we estimated probabilities of survival and encounter of adult House Finches (
10.1525/cond.2010.090139|Subspecies
10.2307/1366792|This paper presents a necropsy procedure for examining small wild birds, designed to be used by investigators without experience in avian pathology. It gives instructions on how to conduct a postmortem examination, lists the needed equipment, tells what parts of a bird to save when a disorder in encountered, and lists possible diseases which each may signify. This procedure would enable ornithologists to include parasites and diseases in their investigations of avian populations.
10.2307/1368069|I assessed relationships among habitat structure, nest-site selection, and reproductive outcome of House Wrens (Troglodytes aedon) by establishing three nest-box grids in riparian woodlands in southeastern Wyoming. Over a 3-year period, 37% of the boxes contained House Wren nests; 20% contained unused nests built by male House Wrens; and 42% were never used by wrens. Direct discriminant analyses separated three box-use groups (unused, 1-year use, 2- to 3-year use) and three nesting outcome possibilities (failure all years, 1-year success, 2- to 3-year success) along gradients of habitat cover and foliage density. Compared with unused boxes, those selected repeatedly by House Wrens were located in habitats with sparser understories. Similarly, wrens were more likely to fledge offspring from boxes chosen in sparsely foliated habitats. I conclude that characteristics of the surrounding habitat influenced wren reproductive outcome and suggest that boxes in open habitats were actively selected based on their higher probability of success. Predation was the major cause of nesting failure. By nesting in open habitats, House Wrens may be more adept at detecting and deflecting cavity-nest intruders before nests are discovered and destroyed.
10.2307/1369332| Density, age-specific survival, timing of breeding and molting, and movements of the Omao or Hawaiian Thrush (Myadestes obscurus) were studied at four sites on the island of Hawaii. Mean monthly density (birds/ha) was 3.23  0.57, 1.07  0.33, 3.23  0.16, and 3.74  0.36 at Kau Forest, Hamakua, Keauhou Ranch, and Kilauea Forest study areas, respectively. Annual survival of juvenile Omao (0.40  0.09) was lower than that of adults (0.66  0.08). Emigration and mortality was greatest during November through May. Breeding and molting occurred throughout the year, with peak breeding in May through July. Omao showed strong site fidelity and were highly sedentary. Mean home range size (n = 39) was 2.20  0.26 ha and did not differ between sexes or study sites. 
10.2307/1368450|Foraging ranges and zones of breeding Black-browed (Diomedea melanophris), Gray-headed (D. chrysostoma), and Wandering (D. exulans) albatrosses were studied in the southwest Indian Ocean, using individuals color-marked at the Kerguelen Islands. Black-browed Albatrosses forage mainly over the surrounding continental shelf and had a maximum foraging range of 470 km; Gray-headed and Wandering albatrosses foraged over pelagic waters up to 1,850 km and 1,420 km respectively from their nest. Black-browed Albatrosses breeding at two Kerguelen colonies appeared to have essentially separate foraging zones but overlap occurred in an area where trawlers provided an additional food source. Our findings support the hypothesis that separation of feeding zones is an extensive means of resource partitioning in albatross communities and populations.
1370636| Glaucous Gulls (Larus hyperboreus) nesting on the Yukon-Kuskokwim (Y-K) Delta frequently prey on juvenile waterfowl. We collected 434 Glaucous Gulls from late June to early August 1994 to examine diet. Identification of undigested prey tissue, based on DNA microsatellite loci, showed three species of goslings in gull stomachs: Emperor Goose (Chen canagica), White-fronted Goose (Anser albifrons), and Cackling Canada Goose (Branta canadensis minima). Gulls that nested inland and were collected >1.6 km from the coast accounted for approximately 70% of the total gull predation on Emperor and Canada Geese, and 96% on White-fronted Geese. Our stratified sample of gull stomachs and aerial survey estimates of population size and distribution of gulls and juvenile geese enabled extrapolation of species-specific predation rates to the entire Y-K Delta. We estimated that a minimum of 21 000 Emperor Goose, 34 000 Canada Goose, and 16 000 White-fronted Goose goslings were consumed by 12 600 Glaucous Gulls during the brood-rearing period on the Y-K Delta in 1994. Minimum estimated take by gulls represented 33% of Cackling Canada Goose, 47% of Emperor Goose, and 39% of White-fronted Goose eggs estimated to have hatched in the same area as gull collections. Gulls selected the three species of geese approximately in proportion to their abundance. Although gull predation caused significant gosling mortality, its role in regulating goose populations on Y-K Delta remains unresolved. /// Las gaviotas Larus hyperboreus que nidifican en el delta del Yukon-Kuskokwim (Y-K) depredan aves acuticas juveniles con frecuencia. Para examinar su dieta, colectamos 434 gaviotas de esta especie entre finales de junio y principios de agosto de 1994. Identificamos los tejidos de presas no digeridos con base en loci de ADN microsatelital y encontramos pichones de tres especies de gansos (Chen canagica, Anser albifrons y Branta canadensis minima) en los estmagos de las gaviotas. Las gaviotas que estaban nidificando tierra adentro y que fueron colectadas a ms de 1.6 km de la costa representaron aproximadamente el 70% del total de las depredaciones de C. canagica y B. canadensis y el 96% de las de A. albifrons. Nuestra muestra estratificada de estmagos de gaviotas, junto con estimaciones del tamao poblacional de las gaviotas y gansos juveniles hechas mediante censos desde el aire, permitieron hacer extrapolaciones de tasas de depredacin especieespecficas para todo el delta Y-K. Los nmeros estimados mnimos de pichones depredados por 12 600 gaviotas en el delta durante el perodo de cra de 1994 fueron 21 000 C. canagica, 34 000 B. canadensis y 16 000 A. albifrons. Estimamos que en ls reas en que fueron colectadas, las gaviotas consumieron como mnimo el 33%, 47% y 39% del nmero estimado de huevos all eclosionados de B. canadensis, C. canagica y A. albifrons, respectivamente. Las gaviotas seleccionaron a las tres especies de gansos aproximadamente en proporcin a su abundancia. Aunque la depredacin por gaviotas caus una mortalidad significativa de los pichones, an debe determinarse su papel en la regulacin de las poblaciones de gansos en el delta Y-K. 
10.2307/1368915|Post-fledging parental care of Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) was examined by following in-colony and post-dispersing movements of marked adults and young. At a large offshore colony, parental care ceased when young dispersed at a mean age of 70 days, but at some mainland and nearshore Western Gull colonies parental care may last longer. At the latter sites competition for food appeared low, foraging territories and food items could be defended by adults, and food sources were near nest sites. A low incidence of prolonged parental care in this species may result from activities of a few well-adapted individuals who specialize in foraging techniques facilitating extended breeding efforts.
10.2307/1368920|A study of 72 historical and recent nests of the California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus) has revealed considerable variability in nest-site characteristics. This paper primarily summarizes the data on nest elevations and dimensions, entrance orientations, nest longevity and re-use, vulnerability of sites to natural enemies, and use of sites by other species. Although all known nests have been natural cavities, some have been little more than overhung ledges on cliffs, while others have been deep, dark caves with nest chambers completely concealed from the outside. Two sites have been cavities in giant sequoias (Sequoiadendron giganteum). Contrary to previous assumptions, condors do modify the characteristics of their nest sites significantly and commonly construct substrates of coarse gravel on which to rest their eggs. Many nests have been completely accessible to terrestrial predators, many have been poorly protected from avian predators, and some have had structural flaws leading directly to nesting failure. The use of suboptimal sites has not been clearly related to a scarcity of better quality sites.
10.2307/1370002|We simultaneously monitored the heart rate and behavior of nine free-living Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons) on their wintering grounds in northern California. Heart rates of wild geese were monitored via abdominally-implanted radio transmitters with electrodes that received electrical impulses of the heart and emitted a radio signal with each ventricular contraction. Post-operative birds appeared to behave normally, readily rejoining flocks and flying up to 15 km daily from night-time roost sites to feed in surrounding agricultural fields. Heart rates varied significantly among individuals and among behaviors, and ranged from less than 100 beats per minute (BPM) during resting, to over 400 BPM during flight. Heart rates varied from 80 to 140 BPM during non-strenuous activities such as walking, feeding, and maintenance activities, to about 180 BPM when birds became alert, and over 400 BPM when birds were startled, even if they did not take flight. Postflight heart rate recovery time averaged < 10 sec. During agonistic encounters, heart rate exceeded 400 BPM; heart rates during social interactions were not predictable solely from postures, as heart rates were context-dependent, and were highest in initial encounters among individuals. Instantaneous measures of physiological parameters, such as heart rate, are often better indicators of the degree of response to external stimuli than visual observations and can be used to improve estimates of energy expenditure based solely on activity data.
10.2307/1369416| We examined the vocal repertoire of lek-mating Long-tailed Manakins (Chiroxiphia linearis, Pipridae) in Monteverde, Costa Rica. Males in this genus are unusual in performing a cooperative courtship display, including duet songs and coordinated dual-male dance displays. Males give at least 13 distinct vocalizations, several of which occur in clear behavioral contexts. By observing the behavioral context and the sequence in which calls were given, we found that the most frequent calls occurred during three types of activity: song bouts, dance, and noncourtship interactions. The responses of males to playback of six vocalizations indicated that the calls function as much in mediating cooperative interactions as in expressing male-male agonism. The evolution of the large vocal repertoire in Long-tailed Manakins may be associated with their unique social system based on long-term, cooperative relationships among males. /// Estudiamos el repertorio vocal del Saltarn Toledo (Chiroxiphia linearis, Pipridae) en Monteverde, Costa Rica. Los machos de este gnero se comportan muy particulares en relacin el cortejo cooperativo, incluyendo canciones a duo y danzas coordinadas de parejas de machos. Los machos emiten al menos 13 vocalizaciones distintas, muchas de ellas con un contexto claro con respeto al comportamiento. Se encontr, mediante observacin del contexto de comportamiento y las secuencias de sus vocalizaciones, que las llamadas ms frecuentes se emiten durante tres tipos de actividades: el canto, el baile, y la interaccin no-relacionada al cortejo. Las respuestas de los machos a seis vocalizaciones pre-grabadas sugieren una funcin de interaccin cooperativa tanto como para expresar agresin entre machos. La evolucin de las vocalizaciones diversas en Chiroxiphia linearis puede ser asociada con el sistema social unico fundado en relaciones cooperativas a largo plazo entre machos. 
10.2307/1370406|Most organisms live in seasonal environments that fluctuate on a predictable schedule and sometimes unpredictably. Individuals must, therefore, adjust so as to maximize their survival and reproductive success over a wide range of environmental conditions. In birds, as in other vertebrates, endocrine secretions regulate morphological, physiological, and behavioral changes in anticipation of future events. The individual thus prepares for predictable fluctuations in its environment by changing life-cycle stages. We have applied finite-state machine theory to define and compare different life-history cycles. The ability of birds to respond to predictable and unpredictable regimes of environmental variation may be constrained by the adaptability of their endocrine control systems. We have applied several theoretical approaches to natural history data of birds to compare the complexity of life cycles, the degree of plasticity of timing of stages within the cycle, and to determine whether endocrine control mechanisms influence the way birds respond to their environments. The interactions of environmental cues on the timing of life-history stages are not uniform in all populations. Taking the reproductive life-history stage as an example, arctic birds that have short breeding seasons in severe environments appear to use one reliable environmental cue to time reproduction and they ignore other factors. Birds having longer breeding seasons exhibit greater plasticity of onset and termination and appear to integrate several environmental cues. Theoretical approaches may allow us to predict how individuals respond to their environment at the proximate level and, conversely, predict how constraints imposed by endocrine control systems may limit the complexity of life cycles.
10.2307/1368960|This paper reports three extra-pair copulations (EPCs) and two EPC attempts in Merlin (Falco columbarius). Three hypotheses of frequency of pair copulations were evaluated. The Merlins copulated both during fertile and non-fertile periods, providing support for the social bond hypothesis. Sixty copulations per pair were estimated for the whole breeding season. This copulation rate is high compared to other solo breeding non-raptorial birds and to that necessary to fertilize a clutch of four or five. As male Merlins cannot guard their mates continuously and there are possibilities of extra-pair copulations in the study area, this high copulation rate may be an insurance for genetic paternity, thus providing support for the sperm competition hypothesis. The majority of intraspecific nest intruders were chased from the vicinity of the nests during the fertile period.
10.1525/cond.2012.110030|The effects of global climate change have attracted increasing attention, especially concerning the Arctic, and Antarctic. However, montane/alpine areas are also quite sensitive to climate change. Animals endemic to these areas are distributed within restricted elevational ranges, and many of them are also reliant on the harsh climate, a change of which may affect them as disastrously as it may affect polar species. Here we used MaxEnt software to construct models and make predictions for the rare Sichuan Jay (
10.1525/cond.2011.100118|We used an information-theoretical approach and CormackJollySeber models for open populations in program MARK to examine relationships between survival rates of Northern Spotted Owls and a variety of local weather variables and long-term climate variables. In four of the six populations examined, survival was positively associated with wetter than normal conditions during the growing season or high summer temperatures. At the three study areas located at the highest elevations, survival was positively associated with winter temperature but also had a negative or quadratic relation with the number of storms and winter precipitation. A meta-analysis of all six areas combined indicated that annual survival was most strongly associated with phase shifts in the Southern Oscillation and Pacific Decadal Oscillation, which reflect large-scale temperature and precipitation patterns in this region. Climate accounted for a variable amount (141%) of the total process variation in annual survival but for more year-to-year variation (3-66%) than did spatial variation among owl territories (07%). Negative associations between survival and cold, wet winters and nesting seasons were similar to those found in other studies of the Spotted Owl. The relationships between survival and growing-season precipitation and regional climate patterns, however, had not been reported for this species previously. Climate-change models for the first half of the 21
10.2307/1367416|Lesser Sheathbills (Chionis minor) were studied at Marion Island in the sub-Antarctic. Activity-time budgets of parents rearing chicks were converted into energy budgets and added to estimates of the food delivered to the chicks at the nest, in order to estimate the total energy costs of rearing chicks. Most of the food was obtained by stealing it from breeding penguins and it is improbable that Lesser Sheathbills could rear their chicks in the present manner without access to penguins, or possibly other colonial seabirds. Kleptoparasitism probably had little effect on the breeding success of the host Rockhopper Penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome), since a pair of sheathbills removed less than 1% of the food that the penguins brought into their territory. Investments of time, energy and risk of injury while rearing chicks were very similar for both sheathbill parents. The need to brood young chicks, owing to the harsh climate, restricted food delivery and caused chicks sometimes to starve.
10.2307/1368431|We report on the occurrence and context of female song in the color-marked Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) population resident on Mandarte Island, British Columbia. Sonograms of three females showed that the structure of female song varied, but was usually less complex than that of males. At least one female's song was within the male range of complexity and could have been mistaken for a male song had the sex of the bird been unknown. Another female sang at least two distinct song types. Further, the songs of females recorded on Mandarte were similar to those recorded elsewhere from wild females and from captive females implanted with testosterone. Overall, singing by females on Mandarte was rare; only 12 of approximately 140 females were heard singing during 267 female-years of intensive observation. With one exception, female song was heard only from late February to mid-April, the period just prior to nest building when territory turnover and settlement by yearlings is most common. Most females (83%) sang during territorial conflicts between female intruders and female territory owners. Female song was more common when population density was high, average breeding success was depressed, and variation in breeding success was increased. We suggest that song results from elevated levels of testosterone in females that are engaged in intrasexual aggression, and we discuss some implications of female song for hypotheses of song learning.
10.2307/1369018| We sampled potential food items of American Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) in the Celestn Estuary, Yucatn, Mexico, from October 1992 to January 1993, to explore the influence of food density and distribution on flamingo behavior in relation to the ideal free distribution model. Food items were found in the substrate and vegetation and were dominated by four groups: gastropods (40%), muskgrass bulbils (26%), crustaceans (11%), and chironomids (10%). Overall, food was patchily distributed and food abundance decreased over time. Flocks initially concentrated in areas where food was most abundant, but appeared to deplete food resources in these areas after which they dispersed throughout the Celestn Estuary. Time spent feeding also was lower in the first two time blocks (x = 26%) when food was most abundant, and then increased and remained constant (56%) in the remaining five time blocks. Mean flock size was 457, and did not differ among locations through time, except in the last time block when flocks tended to be larger (x = 821). We concluded that the distribution of flamingo flocks was consistent with the ideal free model based on food density and distribution, but that major perturbations (storms) can dramatically affect flamingo distribution. However, relative payoff for individuals within flocks has yet to be determined. 
10.2307/1370483| An unusual pattern has been described in Patagonian forests, where bird species diversity seems to be inversely correlated with vegetation complexity. To test the occurrence of this pattern in the northern Nothofagus forests of central Chile, a study was conducted at the uble National Reserve during the austral summers of 1994 and 1995. Twenty-nine plots were set along a vegetational gradient. In each plot, the density of all diurnal bird species was estimated, and the vegetation composition and structure were measured. The highest and the lowest bird species diversity were found in semideciduous scrub habitat and Poaceae steppes, respectively. In nongrassland sites, no vegetation variable explained bird species richness or diversity. Total foliage volume and foliage height diversity were significantly correlated with bird species diversity in the nonforest sites but not in the forested areas. However, foliage height diversity significantly explained the variation of bird density and bird species richness in the forest sites. The presence of the tree Nothofagus obliqua was positively correlated with bird diversity and insectivore density. The patterns observed at Nuble lie between the traditional positive relationship between bird diversity and foliage diversity and the inverse relationship found in Patagonia. I propose that particular floristic features of the vegetation rather than structure itself might explain better the diversity of bird species in Patagonian forests. 
4500991| In migrant birds, winter social systems reflect strategies of habitat use. The best-studied strategy is that of a fixed home range or territory. Alternative strategies to holding a territory, such as floating and flocking behaviors, suggest different processes of habitat selection. Whereas flocking, like territoriality, is a well-studied social strategy, solitary nonterritorial (floater) behavior is difficult to study and is thus poorly understood in terms of its causes, consequences, and implications for habitat selection. Floaters are individuals of a primarily stationary population which move over large areas compared to the average home range size. We review evidence of the causes, consequences, and frequency of winter floating behavior, focusing primarily on migrant songbirds. We also address the endocrine basis of alternative behavioral strategies by presenting results from aviary-based dominance trials with Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus). Results from this study and others suggest that the adrenocortical response to social stress plays a key role in both the proximate and ultimate causes of floating behavior. Because winter floating behavior exists in many migrant songbird species, better understanding of winter floaters may be important for population modeling and conservation planning. /// En las aves migratorias, los sistemas sociales de invierno reflejan las estrategias de uso de hbitat. La estrategia mejor estudiada es la de un territorio o un rango de hogar fijo. Las estrategias alternativas para mantener un territorio, como los comportamientos de bandada y de individuos flotantes, sugieren procesos de seleccin de hbitat diferentes. Mientras que el comportamiento de bandada, al igual que la territorialidad, es una estrategia social bien estudiada, el comportamiento no territorial (flotante) es difcil de estudiar. Por esto, el comportamiento flotante es muy poco entendido en trminos de sus causas, consecuencias e implicancias para la seleccin de hbitat. Los individuos flotantes pertenecen a poblaciones mayoritariamente fijas que se mueven a travs de grandes reas en comparacin con el rango de hogar promedio. Revisamos la evidencia sobre las causas, las consecuencias y las frecuencias del comportamiento flotante en invierno, enfocndonos principalmente en las aves migratorias. Tambin abordamos la base endocrina de las diferentes estrategias de conducta presentando resultados de experimentos de dominancia en aviarios, utilizando a Catharus guttatus. Los resultados de este y otros estudios sugieren que la respuesta adenocortical al estrs social juega un papel clave tanto en las causas inmediatas como en las causas ltimas del comportamiento flotante. Debido a que el comportamiento flotante durante el invierno existe en varias especies migratorias de aves canoras, un mejor entendimiento sobre los flotantes durante la poca invernal podra ser muy importante para construir modelos poblacionales y establecer planes de conservacin. 
4096556| Grazing of domestic livestock on public lands in the western United States is a major source of habitat destruction. I quantified nest success of ground-nesting Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis) breeding in ponderosa pine forests and pine savanna in the Kaibab National Forest of northern Arizona. Comparison of results for areas grazed by cattle to results for immediately adjacent areas protected from grazing revealed that cattle grazing was associated with a dramatic (75%) reduction in nest success. Cattle grazing reduced vegetation cover over nests by an average of 41%, exposing the nest to more extreme climatic conditions as well as possibly making them more conspicuous to predators. /// El pastoreo por parte de ganado domstico en tierras p/'ublicas del oeste de los Estados Unidos es una de las principales fuentes de destruccin de hbitat. Cuantifiqu el xito de nidificacin de Junco hyemalis, una especie que nidifica en el suelo, en los bosques de pino Ponderosa y las sabanas de pinos en el Bosque Nacional Kaibab, norte de Arizona. La comparacin entre los resultados de las reas pastoreadas por ganado y de las reas inmediatamente adyacentes que se encuentran protegidas del pastoreo mostr que el pastoreo por ganado se asoci con una reduccin dramtica (75%) del xito de nidificacin. En promedio el pastoreo por ganado redujo la cobertura vegetal sobre los nidos en un 41%, exponiendo a los nidos a condiciones climticas ms extremas y posiblemente hacindolos ms conspicuos ante los depredadores. 
1370102| We studied the dispersal patterns of an insular population of California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) in southern California from 1987-1998. The study area encompassed the entire San Bernardino Mountains and included a nested, 535-km<sup>2</sup> study area which we used to evaluate the effects of study area size on dispersal parameter estimation. One hundred and twenty-nine of the 478 banded juvenile owls (27%) had entered the territorial population by 1998. Over half of the successful dispersers became territorial within one year. Additionally, all females and 95% of the males occupied territories within three years. Twenty-three sibling pairs and one set of triplets dispersed successfully. Sibling dispersal distances were not correlated. Sixty-seven males and 62 females dispersed 2.3-36.4 km (mean  SD = 10.1  7.6 km) and 0.4-35.7 km (mean  SD = 11.7  8.1 km), respectively. The difference between male and female mean dispersal distances was not significant. Dispersal distance and first-year survival were underestimated when using data collected within the smaller, nested study area. The presence of conspecifics may play a key role in the settling process. Seventy-eight percent of the dispersers settled in territories that were occupied by either pairs or single owls the previous year, 16% settled in vacant territories next to occupied sites, and 6% settled at sites of unknown occupancy. No owls settled at unoccupied sites that were not adjacent to occupied sites. /// Estudiamos los patrones de dispersin de una poblacin insular de lechuza moteada californiana (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) en el sur de California, desde 1987-1998. El rea de estudio comprendi las montaas de San Bernardino e incluy un sito de estudio de 535 km<sup>2</sup> includo en esta zona el cual usamos para evaluar el efecto del tamao del rea de estudio para la estimacin de los parmetros de dispersin. Hasta 1998, 129 de las 478 lechuzas juveniles marcadas (27%) haban entrado a la poblacin territorial. Ms la mitad de los dispersores exitosos se hicieron territoriales al cabo de un ao. Adicionalmente, todas las hembras y el 95% de los machos ocuparon territorios al cabo de tres aos. Veintitrs pares de hermanos y un triplete se dispersaron exitosamente. La distancia de dispersin entre hermanos no se correlacion. Sesenta y siete machos y 62 hembras se dispersaron 2.3-36.4 km (media = 10.1  7.6 km) y 0.4-35.7 km (media = 11.7  8.1 km), respectivamente. La diferencia entre la media de la distancia de dispersin entre hembras y machos no fue significativa. La distancia de dispersin y supervivencia del primer ao fueron subestimadas cuando se utilizaron los datos colectados en la sub-rea de estudio de menor tamao. La presencia de conespecficos puede representar un factor clave en el proceso de asentamiento. Setenta y ocho por ciento de los dispersores se asentaron en territorios que haban estado ocupados por parejas o lechuzas no emparejadas el ao anterior, el 16% en territorios no ocupados prximos a sitios ocupados, y el 6% se asent en sitios con ocupacin desconocida. Ninguna lechuza se asent en sitios desocupados que no estuvieran adyacentes a un sitio ocupado. 
3247767| We analyzed offspring sex ratio variation in Mediterranean Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris d. diomedea) during two consecutive breeding seasons in two colonies. We test for differential breeding conditions between years and colonies looking at several breeding parameters and parental condition. We then explored the relationship between offspring sex ratio and parental condition and breeding parameters. This species is sexually dimorphic with males larger and heavier than females; consequently we expected differential parental cost in rearing sexes, or a greater sensitivity of male chicks to adverse conditions, which may lead to biased sex ratios. Chicks were sexed molecularly by the amplification of the CHD genes. Offspring sex ratio did not differ from parity, either at hatching or fledging, regardless of the colony or year. However, parental body condition and breeding parameters such as egg size and breeding success were different between years and colonies. Nevertheless, neither nestling mortality nor body condition at fledging varied between years or colonies, suggesting that male and female chicks were probably not differentially affected by variability in breeding conditions. /// Se analizaron las proporciones de sexos en la descendencia en dos colonias mediterrneas de Calonectris d. diomedea, durante dos temporadas de cra consecutivas. Se estudi la relacin entre la proporcin de sexos de los polios y la condicin parental y algunos parmetros reproductivos durante la cra. La especie es dimrfica, siendo los machos mayores y ms pesados que las hembras; en consecuencia, se esperaran costos parentales diferenciales en la cra de los sexos, o una sensibilidad mayor de los polios machos a condiciones adversas, que se traducira en un sesgo en la proporcin de sexos. Se determin el sexo de los polios por medio de tcnicas moleculares, mediante la amplificacin del gen CHD. Las proporciones de sexos en los polios no se desviaron del 50% ni en la eclosin, ni en los volantones, independientemente de la colonia o el ao de estudio. Sin embargo, la condicin parental y algunos parmetros reproductivos como el tamao del huevo o el xito reproductivo s variaron entre aos y colonias. La mortalidad o la condicin fsica de los volantones tampoco mostraron ninguna variacin en funcin de la colonia o del ao de estudio, sugiriendo que los polios de los dos sexos probablemente no se vieron afectados de manera diferencial por la variabilidad en las condiciones de cra. 
40306213|The general relationship between extrapair copulations (EPC) and extrapair paternity (EPP) in wild birds is unclear because relatively few studies have collected both types of information from a single population. I compared observed copulatory behavior with genetic paternity in a population of the American Crow (
10.1525/cond.2013.120028|We investigated the reproductive ecology of the Island Scrub-Jay (
10.2307/1370074|We investigated how sperm morphology varies across 16 species of shorebirds in the Scolopacidae, Charadriidae, and Jacanidae. Sperm were significantly longer in nonmonogamous than in socially monogamous species. Nonmonogamous species also had significantly longer midpieces and tails than monogamous species. As the midpiece houses the mitochondria for powering the tail, this suggests that sperm competition may select for greater investment in mobility. After controlling for phylogeny and male body mass, sperm tail length was correlated positively to relative testis size. There was no evidence that variation in sperm morphology was related to either male body mass (through allometry) or egg size (via linkage disequilibrium). Instead, our results suggest that sperm size in shorebirds increases with the intensity of sperm competition.
40306188|Despite the importance of knowing the method and cost of ejection in understanding the persistence of brood parasitism, anecdotal records of witnessed ejections of real Brown-headed Cowbird (
10.2307/1368958|Using data from an 11-year field study, I determined whether group-living passerine species showed greater infestation by contact-transmitted ectoparasites (feather mites) than sympatric, solitary species. Differences in infestation by mobile hippoboscid flies between group-living and solitary passerine species were also examined. Among the 45 species included in the analysis, feather mite prevalence was significantly greater on group-living species than on solitary ones. Two other factors investigated, bird size and migratory habit, had no effect on infestation levels. Similar results were obtained when the analysis was performed on all species outside the most species-rich family (Fringillidae), or only within the family Fringillidae itself. An analysis at the family level also suggested greater feather mite infestations in families made up only of group-living species as opposed to families including only solitary species; however, the difference was not significant. No differences were observed in hippoboscid fly abundance between group-living and solitary passerines, in all analyses at either the species or family level. These results suggest that individuals of group-living species incur a greater risk of acquiring contact-transmitted ectoparasites than individuals of solitary species, a cost which may not be negligible.
10.2307/1368484|The influence of parental sex, brood size, and nestling age in determining the rate of feeding of nestling Mountain Chickadees (Parus gambeli) is examined. Male Mountain Chickadees provide a majority of the food delivered to nestlings. For most of the nestling cycle, the male feeds each nestling a greater volume of food than does the female. His relative share of feeding visits increases with increasing brood size. Although the male's feeding contribution is large, the female predominates in other aspects of parental investment. Throughout the nestling cycle, female nest attendance times are at least twice as long, on average, as the male's. Her attendance time increases as brood size declines. Each nestling in a smaller brood receives a greater volume of food and more feeding visits than counterparts in larger nests. Prey volume per nestling, visits per nestling, size of individual prey, and prey volume per trip all exhibit a rising phase over the initial 5 to 10 days of the nestling cycle followed by a level phase till near fledging time. Load size, however, increases almost continuously throughout the cycle. Three solo measures (number of feeding visits, prey size, and number of prey) were evaluated as estimators of daily prey volume. Effectiveness of any one of these estimators varied between sexes and each of these variables generally explained less than 50% of the variation in daily prey volume returned by an adult. Therefore, care should be taken in equating such estimators to more complex measures of feeding effort like prey volume.
10.2307/1369566|Survey of morphometric, colorimetric, and allozymic variation in the Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens), the Western Gull (L. occidentalis) and their hybrids is based on 706 specimens taken from 33 colony areas located throughout the breeding range of both species. Whereas most morphometric characters overlap between taxa, colorimetric characters exhibited significant intraspecific and interspecific clinal variation. Canonical discriminant function analysis of colorimetric characters clearly separated pure and hybrid morphotypes and confirmed the intermediacy of character expression in hybrids. Plumage melanism of the mantle and primary tips are among the best discriminators of hybrids. Twenty-five of 32 presumptive genetic loci were polymorphic. Although there were no fixed differences between taxa, gene frequencies exhibited significant heterogeneity across geography. Despite moderately high gene flow (Nm = 2.8 individuals per generation), populations of the L. glaucescens-occidentalis complex are not panmictic, and the hybrid zone forms a partial barrier to gene flow. Hybrids are genetically more similar to L. glaucescens than to L. occidentalis. The hybrid zone extends from Juan de Fuca Strait, Washington, south to Coos Bay, Oregon. A broad zone of introgression extends from the Queen Charlotte Islands in British Columbia south to Coos Bay, Oregon. The hybrid zone appears to have expanded in recent years, yet its midpoint near Grays Harbor, Washington, has remained stable. Hybridization appears to be responsible for skewed introgression and elevated genic diversity in L. glaucescens. The fact that L. glaucescens shows high levels of introgression while maintaining its genetic identity lends support to the hypothesis that hybridization in birds may serve as a mechanism for increasing or restoring genetic diversity in forms that are adapted to local environments.
10.2307/1367501|Feeding behavior of Laughing Gulls was examined and compared to that of Herring Gulls on a dump in New Jersey. Laughing Gulls ate food at the dump or carried away items to eat elsewhere. Whenever Herring Gulls were present, Laughing Gulls could not land on the dump, were forced to move from good feeding areas once they did land, and lost food to Herring Gull pirates both on the dump and while carrying food away. I suggest that direct competition from Herring Gulls has prevented Laughing Gulls from greater exploitation of dumps in New Jersey in the past. Recent changes in the operations of dumps have reduced interspecific competition by providing a situation in which Laughing Gulls can effectively dip for food and Herring Gulls are prevented from feeding. As a result of this change, the use of dumps by Laughing Gulls has increased in New Jersey.
3247797| We measured the metabolic responses of nine Whip-poor-wills (Caprimulgus vociferus), captured in southeast South Dakota, to incremental changes in ambient temperature within the range of 0-40C. Similar to other members of the Caprimulgiformes, Whip-poor-wills exhibited a basal metabolic rate that was lower than predicted by allometry. We compared basal metabolic rates of six caprimulgiform species (our data plus published values for five other species) with those of 82 other avian species using both conventional and phylogenetically independent ANCOVAs. The low basal metabolic rate of Caprimulgiformes was not explained by phylogenetic position. A low basal metabolic rate, together with the widespread ability of birds in this order to use daily torpor, seemingly has enabled members of this group to occupy their unique ecological niche (crepuscular insectivory). /// Medimos las respuestas metablicas a aumentos de la temperatura ambiental en un rango de 0-40C en nueve individuos de Caprimulgus vociferus capturados en Dakota del Sur. De manera similar a otros Caprimlgidos, C. vociferus present una tasa metablica basal menor a la predicha por parmetros alomtricos. Comparamos las tasas metablicas basales de seis especies de caprimlgidos (nuestros datos ms datos publicados para otras cinco especies) con aquellas de otras 82 especies de aves utilizando anlisis de co-varianza (ANCOVA) convencionales y filogenticamente independientes. La baja tasa metablica basal de los caprimlgidos no fue explicada por su posicin filogentica. La baja tasa metablica basal, junto a la capacidad generalizada de las aves de este orden de usar torpor diario, aparentemente han permitido a los miembros de este grupo a ocupar un nicho ecolgico nico (insectivora crepuscular). 
4122535| We monitored the nest densities and nest survival of seven cavity-nesting bird species, including four open-space foragers (American Kestrel [Falco sparverius], Lewis's Woodpecker [Melanerpes lewis], Western Bluebird [Sialia mexicana], and Mountain Bluebird [S. currucoides]) and three wood-foragers (Hairy Woodpecker [Picoides villosus], Black-backed Woodpecker [P. arcticus], and Northern Flicker [Colaptes auratus]), after two wildfires (one partially salvage-logged and one unlogged) in western Idaho from 1994-2004. We estimated the relationship between nest density and time since fire, tested for statistical differences in nest densities and nest survival in the partially salvage-logged vs. unlogged wildfires, and tested for differences in nest survival between early (1-4 years after fire) and late (5-12 years after fire) postfire periods. Nest densities of open-space foragers and Northern Flickers generally increased with time since fire, whereas nest densities of Black-backed and Hairy Woodpeckers peaked 4-5 years postfire. Nest densities of wood-foraging species and Mountain Bluebirds were significantly higher in the unlogged burn, whereas Lewis's Woodpeckers had significantly higher nest densities in the partially logged burn. Kestrels tended to favor the partially logged burn, while Western Bluebird nest densities were nearly equal in both burned areas. For most species, postfire period and treatment (partially logged vs. unlogged) had little influence on nest survival. However, Hairy Woodpecker nest survival was significantly lower in the partially logged burn versus the unlogged wildfire in the early postfire period, and Lewis's Woodpecker nest survival was significantly reduced in the later postfire period versus the early postfire period in the partially logged burn. Importantly, the salvage logging was designed to retain more than half of the snags over 23 cm in diameter, which provided suitable nesting habitat for open-space foragers during the decade following fire. /// Monitoreamos las densidades y la sobrevivencia de los nidos de siete especies de aves que nidifican en cavidades, incluyendo cuatro especies que se alimentan en zonas abiertas (Falco sparverius, Melanerpes lewis, Sialia mexicana y S. currucoides) y tres que se alimentan sobre troncos (Picoides villosus, P. arcticus, y Colaptes auratus), despus de dos incendios naturales (uno en una zona con actividades forestales y otro en una zona sin talar) en el oeste de Idaho de 1994 a 2004. Estimamos la relacin entre la densidad de los nidos y el tiempo transcurrido desde las quemas, evaluamos estadsticamente las diferencias en la densidad y la sobrevivencia de los nidos entre la zona con actividades forestales y la no talada y evaluamos las diferencias en la sobrevivencia de los nidos entre los perodos tempranos (1-4 aos despus de las quemas) y los tardos (5-12 aos despus de las quemas) posteriores a las quemas. Las densidades de los nidos de las especies que se alimentan en zonas abiertas y de C. auratus se incrementaron, de manera general, con el tiempo transcurrido desde las quemas, mientras que las densidades de P. villosus y P. arcticus alcanzaron su mximo entre cuatro y cinco aos despus de las quemas. Las densidades de los nidos de las especies que se alimentan sobre troncos y de S. currucoides fueron significativamente ms altas en zonas no taladas, mientras que M. lewis tuvo una densidad de nidos significativamente ms alta en las zonas con actividades forestales posteriores a las quemas. F. sparverius prefiri las zonas con actividades forestales posteriores a las quemas, mientras que las densidades de los nidos de S. mexicana fueron casi iguales en ambas zonas quemadas. Los perodos posteriores a las quemas y el tratamiento (parcialmente talado y no talado) tuvieron poca influencia sobre la sobrevivencia de los nidos de la mayora de las especies. Sin embargo, la sobrevivencia de los nidos de P. villosus fue significativamente ms baja en las reas parcialmente taladas que en las no taladas durante los perodos tempranos posteriores a las quemas. La sobrevivencia de los nidos de M. lewis fue significativamente menor en los perodos tardos posteriores a las quemas en comparacin con los perodos tempranos en la zona parcialmente talada. Es importante sealar que la zona con actividades forestales posteriores a las quemas fue diseada para preservar ms de la mitad de los tocones de 23 cm de dimetro, lo que proporcion un hbitat adecuado para la nidificacin de las especies que se alimentan en zonas abiertas durante la dcada subsiguiente a los incendios naturales. 
10.2307/1369017|We propose a model of filter feeding in Caribbean (Phoenicopterus r. ruber) and Greater Flamingos (P. r. roseus) that is based on a description of the oropharyngeal integument, using SEM and radiography, and analysis of kinematics and performances. Our model extends that of Jenkin (1957). We propose a lingual back-and-forth pump, that causes a lateral in- and outflow of water. Outflow of water is manipulated by directing water more distally to pass somewhat larger lamellar meshes, or more proximally to pass slightly smaller meshes. Performance analysis of filtering monotypic suspensions of seeds ranging from 0.1 to 10.0 mm cross-section shows peak performances at 2-4 mm. Sizes smaller than 0.5 mm and larger than 6.0 mm are not filtered. Performance analysis of filtering suspensions of two seed types shows that discrimination capacity, though not perfect, is accurate if food of preferred size is offered. In addition to touch, taste also controls discrimination. We present a provisional morphospace of avian filter feeding mechanisms derived by nomological deduction from an initial pecking mechanism and develop in this domain preliminar historical-narrative hypotheses of the evolution of avian filter mechanisms. The morphospace connects chicken-like pecking, considered as the initial type of feeding, through initial probing, to five categories of filtering. These categories are: accidental filtering (as in Phalaropus), ram filtering (as in Pachyptila), grasp-pump filtering (as in Anser), (inverted) back-and-forth pump filtering, causing a lateral in- and outflow (as in Phoenicopterus), and through-pump filtering, causing distal inflow and proximal outflow (as in Anas). The evolutionary hypotheses consider probing as developed from ancestral pecking, and filter feeding as branching early from that route.
10.2307/1368843|Prey utilization by Yellow-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax violaceus) was examined during 1986 and 1987 in the lower Chesapeake Bay of Virginia. Nine crab species were identified in the diet with only three (Uca pugnax, U. minax, Rithropanopeus harrisii) representing 94% of the prey items collected. Habitat associations of the major prey species along with their high incidence in the diet suggest that these species may form highly profitable prey complexes in localized areas and that these areas represent important foraging centers in Virginia. The usage patterns of the minor prey species seem to be related to their degree of habitat overlap with the major prey species. A comparison of Virginia samples to those reported from New York and New Jersey (Riegner 1982a) reveals a discrepancy between the two sites in the occurrence of mud crabs in the diet. This discrepancy is suggested to reflect a geographic shift in the species composition of important prey complexes.
90008468|Projected global growth in wind energy development has the potential to negatively affect wildlife populations, and yet the indirect effects of wind turbines on wildlife (e.g., displacement from otherwise suitable habitat) remain largely understudied, compared with investigations of direct effects (e.g., collision mortality). Thus, over a 3-yr period (20092011), we used 2 alternative survey methods to study displacement in breeding grassland songbirds at an operational wind facility in the southern Great Plains, USA. Using a line transect method in 2009 and 2010, we estimated the densities of Dickcissels (
10.2307/1369279|Seabirds and marine fish share habitats and food webs, but there is too little contact between the disciplines that study them. Fish stock assessment models, designed for use on teleost fishes with high fecundity, high recruitment variability, and continued growth throughout life, may be strengthened by inclusion of seabird data. In some circumstances seabird-based indices of prey abundance could assist in calibration of sequential population analysis of fish stocks. Seabird energy acquisition rates, equivalent to fisheries catch per unit effort, are the most promising avian indicators of stock size. Seabird data may be useful in predicting recruitment of commercial fisheries and in improving estimates of natural fish mortality. The impact of seabird predation on fish stocks depends on the age of targeted fish and their subsequent growth and mortality. Yield-per-recruit analyses, derived from fisheries science, suggest that under plausible conditions the impact of seabird predation on fish stocks may be amplified by avian preference for small prey. Increased collaboration between seabird biology and fisheries science will benefit conservation of both birds and fish.
10.2307/1366825|We examined more than 90 nests of the Common Amakihi (Hemignathus virens virens) from the Island of Hawaii to determine if their placement, composition, or insulation varied with meteorological conditions at the time of nesting. Common Amakihi nest chiefly during the wet season. The nests were always within the canopy of the nest trees and consequently were probably shielded from rain. The nests from a warm rain forest on Kohala Mountain were significantly higher in the canopy and nearer each tree's center than the nests from Mauna Kea, a cold upland savannah. On Mauna Kea, nests were nearer the edge of the canopy at higher elevations, i.e., in a location where they would benefit from radiant solar energy. Nests from Kohala Mountain lacked liners and were more porous than those from Mauna Kea. These features permitted the nests to dry rapidly. Nests from Mauna Kea, in contrast, were always lined, which retarded drying and increased their insulating capacity--features appropriate for the drier, colder conditions in areas where they were built. All of the nests were excellent windscreens. The thermal conductance of nests from Mauna Kea diminished with altitude, i.e., nests at higher elevations had more insulation than those at lower elevations. This trend was associated with differences in the nests' walls, which were denser (but not thicker) at higher elevations. The nest's thermal conductance can be used to estimate the energetic expense of incubation. For Common Amakihi, the energy required to keep a clutch at incubation temperature may be as much as 0.115 W or 47% of the birds' metabolic rate at rest.
4122504| Recent studies have examined the effects of livestock grazing, agriculture, and human habitation on nest predation and brood parasitism in riparian areas in the western United States. However, we know little about factors influencing nest success in riparian areas lacking such anthropogenic influences, in part because the influences are so pervasive. We studied riparian bird communities in a 115 000 ha wildlife refuge where livestock grazing was discontinued >10 years ago, and which has little nearby agriculture or human habitation. We monitored nests on 24 aspen (Populus tremuloides) and 10 willow (Salix spp.) plots. Brood parasitism rates were substantially lower than at other western sites and did not differ between aspen and willow habitats. Nest success in aspen was relatively high compared to that reported for other western sites and higher than in willow. Predators may have been able to find nests more efficiently in willow than in aspen because territory densities were higher in willow (40 versus 30 pairs per ha, respectively), because willow had less structural heterogeneity, or both. We did not find strong evidence that nest success was influenced by aspen patch size or distance to riparian edge, indicating that even small aspen patches provide valuable nesting habitat. Weather was an important cause of nest failure, particularly at higher elevations during late-spring snowstorms. Our results indicate that riparian areas without major anthropogenic impacts, especially aspen stands, constitute high-quality breeding habitat and warrant conservation focus. /// Algunos estudios recientes han examinado los efectos del pastoreo por parte de ganado, la agricultura y las viviendas humanas sobre la depredacin de nidos y el parasitismo de cra en ambientes ribereos del oeste de los Estados Unidos. Sin embargo, sabemos poco acerca de los factores que influencian el xito de nidificacin en reas ribereas que carecen de estas influencias antropognicas, en parte porque las influencias estn extendidas muy ampliamente. Estudiamos las comunidades ribereas en un refugio de vida silvesre de 115 000 ha en donde el pastoreo fue descontinuado hace ms de 10 aos, y que cuenta en sus alrededores con pocas reas agrcolas y viviendas humanas. Monitoreamos los nidos en 24 parcelas dominadas por Populus tremuloides y en diez parcelas dominadas por especies de Salix. Las tasas de parasitismo de cra fueron sustancialmente menores que en otros sitios del oeste, y no difirieron entre ambientes de Populus y de Salix. El xito de los nidos en los ambientes de Populus fue relativamente alto en comparacin con el documentado para otros sitios del oeste, y mayor que en los ambientes de Salix. Los depredadores podran haber sido capaces de encontrar nidos ms eficientemente en los ambientes de Salix porque all las densidades de los territorios fueron mayores que en los ambientes de Populus (40 vs. 30 parejas por ha, respectivamente) y/o porque los ambientes de Salix presentaban menor heterogeneidad estructural. No encontramos evidencias fuertes de que el xito de nidificacin estuviera influenciado por el tamao del parche de Populus ni por la distancia al borde ribereo, lo que indica que an los parches pequeos de Populus representan ambientes de nidificacin valiosos. El clima fue una causa importante del fracaso de los nidos, particularmente en las elevaciones mayores durante tormentas de nieve que tuvieron lugar al final de la primavera. Nuestros resultados indican que las res ribereas sin impactos antropognicos importantes, especialmente los rodales de Populus, constituyen ambientes de cra de alta calidad que merecen ser considerados para conservacin. 
10.2307/1367418|The diets of Pelagic, Brandt's and Double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax pelagicus, P. penicillatus and P. auritus) were compared. Data were based on 1,695 pellets and 71 chick regurgitations analyzed by us and information on 34 stomach samples published in the literature. A total of 19 sites between Kodiak, Alaska and central Mexico is represented. The three cormorants often fed in the same areas at the same time using the same technique. They exploited different microhabitats as defined by prey behavior; the prey species overlapped substantially between Brandt's and Pelagic cormorants, but those of the Double-crested Cormorant were quite different. Double-crested Cormorants fed on schooling fish usually occurring well above flat bottoms; Pelagic Cormorants fed on solitary prey on or concealed in rocky substrates; and Brandt's Cormorants fed on prey on or just above the bottom in rocky areas and in areas of flat sand or mud. The latter species fed over flat bottoms more in the northern part of their range than in the southern part where they fed almost exclusively in or near rocky habitat. Double-crested and Pelagic cormorants showed no geographic shift in their feeding habits.
10.2307/1368946|Allozyme variation at 21 presumptive protein loci was examined by electrophoresis and used to assess relationships among Australo-Papuan parrots, lorikeets and cockatoos. Hypotheses of relationships were generated from the data by phenetic and cladistic analyses. The results, when taken into account with other biochemical, chromosomal and morphological data, demonstrate that cockatoos form a monophyletic lineage distant from the other Australo-Papuan parrots and lorikeets. The lorikeets are also monophyletic, but are clustered among other parrots. A core of Australian broad-tailed (platycercine) parrots is defined by the rosellas and ringnecks (Platycercus, Barnardius), Bluebonnet (Northiella), Red-capped Parrot (Purpureicephalus), Swift Parrot (Lathamus) and grass parrots (Psephotus). New Guinean Psittacella also appears to be a member of this assemblage, to which the polytelitine parrots (Alisterus-Polytelis) may be linked as well. Other "conventional" platycercine parrots--the Ground Parrot (Pezoporus), Budgerigar (Melopsittacus), Red-fronted Parakeet (Cyanoramphus), and Blue-winged and Bourke's Parrots (Neophema)--are still more distant and of disparate affinity; the two latter species are polyphyletic among the platycercines. Of psittacine parrots, Eclectus (Eclectus) and Red-cheeked Parrots (Geoffroyus) are closely related but their links to other psittacine genera are not clear. Similarly, the relationships of the fig-parrots (Cyclopsitta), pygmy-parrots (Micropsitta), lovebirds (Agapornis) and ring-necked parakeets (Psittacula) are ambiguous. Biogeographical implications of these results are canvassed in the discussion.
10.2307/1368675|Eleven Sunbittern (Eurypyga helias) nests are described from the gallery forest and woodlands of the Venezuelan llanos. The nidicolous chicks were hatched with abundant ploverlike down, but with underdeveloped movement abilities. Both adults incubated, brooded, fed, and defended nestlings. When fledging occurred at 17-24 days, the young were well below adult weight, and parental care continued for more than a month. Sunbitterns successfully defended nestlings against much larger raptors and ibises by using mostly visual displays. Defense behaviors such as the full Frontal Display, vocalizations, and possible pair-bonding are reported.
10.2307/1367311|An audiospectrographic study of some 12,500 songs of Red-eyed Vireos (Vireo olivaceus), from over 46 birds from nine states, provided data on song structure, vocal repertoires, and the birds' use of their repertoires. These songs have one or more syllables, each syllable consisting of one or more abrupt musical slurs. Each bird has a sizeable repertoire of syllable types, each of which may be used alone and/or with one or more other syllables to produce a number of different song types. The song type repertoires of individual birds ranged from 12 to 117 (average, 39.4). There is relatively little sharing of songs and syllable types among individuals and that which occurs is not always in proportion to the proximity of the birds concerned. A bird sings its different song types in a varied sequence, and rarely sings the same song type twice in succession; some types in the repertoire are sung frequently, while others are sung only rarely. No correlation was found between the song types sung, or their sequence, and the observable circumstances under which the songs were sung. Some geographic variation was found in the birds studied, but the significance of this variation is open to question. A Red-eyed Vireo in an early stage of song development has a very large repertoire of syllable types and uses them in many different combinations; as primary song is developed, some syllables and syllable combinations are perfected and others are discarded. It is probably largely a matter of chance what particular syllable and song types remain in the primary repertoire, but birds may tend not to duplicate the song and syllable types of their neighbors.
10.2307/1369176| Foregut fermentation in the Hoatzin (Opisthocomus hoazin) appears to be a unique adaptation among birds. Passage rates of liquid and solid digesta were measured in five Hoatzins. Four markers were given to captive birds: Cr-EDTA (a liquid marker), ytterbium (Yb) oxide mordanted on plant fiber particles of 1 mm
10.2307/1367396|Aspects of the foraging behavior of Loggerhead Shrikes were analyzed in the nonbreeding and breeding seasons in southern California. The birds obtained more food during the breeding season by attacking more often, not by taking larger prey. Attack rate during the breeding season was twice that in the nonbreeding period, with no apparent difference in capture efficiency. No distinct relationship between attack distance and capture efficiency was noted. Time between attacks decreased during breeding in response to greater food demands. Pursuit, encounter, and handling times did not significantly change between seasons. A positive significant correlation between prey handling time and the square of prey length was found. Handling time did not severely reduce the amount of time that could be devoted to hunting during any season. However, total movements averaged considerably higher during breeding than attack rate alone, adding to the energy expenditures of a hunting shrike and possibly placing constraints on the amount of hunting time available.
10.2307/1370301|We compared habitat use by forest migrant songbirds during the breeding and post-breeding periods in four Missouri Ozark habitats: mature upland forest, mature riparian forest, 9- to 10-year-old upland forest, and 3- to 4-year-old upland forest created by clear-cutting. Adult forest-ground species showed a decrease in abundance in all habitats during the post-breeding period, but hatching-year birds of one of the two forest-ground species were most abundant in early-successional forest during this time. Adults of the two forest-canopy species tended to increase in abundance in 3- to 4-year-old forest from breeding season to post-breeding season. During the breeding season, some forest species were detected with mist-nets in the two early-successional habitats, but infrequently or not at all with point counts in those habitats. Forest birds captured in early-successional habitats during the breeding season may have been nonbreeding floaters, or may have been foraging there from nearby territories in mature forest. Dense shrubs or young trees in early-successional forest may provide habitat for nonbreeding and post-breeding forest migrant songbirds in the Missouri Ozarks.
1370608| We investigated temporal and spatial variability in the diet of chick-provisioning Adlie Penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae) breeding at all colonies within one isolated cluster in the southwestern Ross Sea, Antarctica, 1994-2000. We wished to determine if prey quality explained different population growth and emigration rates among colonies. Diet composition was described both by conventional means (stomach samples) and by analysis of stable isotopes in chick tissues (toenails of individuals killed by skuas [Stercorarius maccormicki]). Diets were similar among the four study colonies compared to the disparity apparent among 14 widely spaced sites around the continent. Calorimetry indicated that fish are more energetically valuable than krill, implying that if diet varied by colony, diet quality could attract recruits and help to explain differential rates of colony growth. However, a multiple-regression analysis indicated that diet varied as a function of year, time within the year, and percent of foraging area covered by sea ice, but not by colony location. Stable isotopes revealed similarity of diet at one colony where conventional sampling was not possible. We confirmed that sea ice importantly affects diet composition of this species in neritic waters, and found that (1) quality of summer diet cannot explain different population growth rates among colonies, and (2) stable isotope analysis of chick tissues (toenails) is a useful tool to synoptically describe diet in this species over a large area. /// Investigamos la variabilidad temporal y espacial en la dieta de Pygoscelis adeliae que se encontraban aprovisionando a sus polluelos en todas las colonias dentro de un grupo aislado en el mar de Ross sud-occidental, Antrtica, entre 1994 y 2000. Desebamos determinar si la calidad de la presa explicaba las diferentes tasas de crecimiento poblacional y emigracin entre colonias. La composicin de la dieta fue descrita por medios convencionales (muestras estomacales) y por el anlisis de istopos estables en tejidos de los polluelos (uas de las patas de los individuos matados por Stercorarius maccormicki). Las dietas fueron similares entre las 4 colonias estudiadas en relacin a la disparidad de la dieta evidente entre 14 sitios dispersos a travs del continente. Las anlisis de calorimetra indicaron que los peces tienen un mayor valor energtico que el krill, sugiriendo que si la dieta vara entre colonias, la calidad de la dieta podra atraer a reclutas y ayudara a explicar los diferentes ndices de crecimiento entre colonias. Sin embargo, un anlisis de regresin mltiple indic que la dieta vari en funcin del ao, de la poca dentro de un ao, y del porcentaje de rea de forrajeo cubierta por el hielo del mar, pero no en funcin de la localizacin de la colonia. Los istopos estables revelaron la semejanza de la dieta en una colonia en que no era posible el muestreo convencional. Confirmamos que el hielo en el mar afecta de manera importante la composicin de la dieta de esta especie en aguas nerticas, y encontramos que (1) la calidad de la dieta de verano no puede explicar las diferentes tasas de crecimiento poblacional entre colonias, y que (2) el anlisis de istopos estables de los tejidos de polluelos (uas de las patas) es una herramienta til para describir, sinpticamente, la dieta en esta especie a travs de un rea extensa. 
4151023| We used pellets and prey dropped near nests to study the diet and feeding ecology of Little Tern (Sterna albifrons) adults and chicks in northern and southern Portugal during 2000-2004. We compared diets among study areas, years, and birds breeding in two main habitat types: sandy beaches and salinas (man-made salt-pans). We also sampled prey fish in one study area and used published data from another area to examine whether the diet of Little Tern adults and chicks corresponded with the abundance of prey found in primary foraging habitats. Adult Little Terns fed mainly on sand-smelts (Atherina spp.) and gobies (Pomatoschistus spp.), which were the most abundant fish species in our estuarine and lagoon study areas. Despite some differences among colonies we did not find clear differences in adult diets among study areas and habitat types. Little Tern chicks also ate primarily Atherina spp., but their diet was more diverse than that of the adults, and characterized by a significantly higher proportion of prey with a high energetic value such as sardines (Sardina pilchardus), garfish (Belone belone), and killifish (Fundulus spp.). Chick diets differed significantly between habitat types, which may be a consequence of the limited foraging range of adult breeding birds. Both adult and chick diets matched the abundance of the main prey in our study areas, confirming the opportunistic foraging character of this species. We suggest that annual variation in prey availability may be the most important factor explaining annual variation in adult diets. /// Neste trabalho foi estudada a dieta e ecologia alimentar de adultos e filhotes de Sterna albifrons no norte e no sul de Portugal, entre 2000 e 2004, a partir de egagrpilas e presas cadas perto dos ninhos. Foram comparadas as dietas de reas de estudo distintas, entre anos e entre aves que nidificam em dois principals tipos de habitat: praias arenosas e salinas. Para verificar se a dieta de adultos e de flhotes de Chilreta correspondia  abundncia de presas nos principais habitats de alimentao, amostrou-se a abundncia de peixes em uma das reas de estudo e utilizaram-se dados publicados para outra rea de estudo. Os adultos de S. albifrons alimentaram-se sobretudo de Peixe-rei (Atherina spp.) e Bodies (Pomatoschistus spp.), os quais foram as espcies de peixe mais abundantes no esturio e na laguna das reas de estudo. Apesar de algumas diferenas entre colnias, no se obtiveram diferenas significativas na dieta dos adultos entre reas de estudo e entre tipos de habitat. Os flhotes de S. albifrons tambm consumiram sobretudo Atherina spp. No entanto, a sua dieta foi mais diversificada do que a dos adultos, contendo uma proporo significativamente maior de presas com alto valor energtico, tais como a Sardinha (Sardina pilchardus), o Peixe-agulha (Belone belone) e a Barrigudinha (Fundulus spp.). A dieta dos flhotes diferiu significativamente entre tipos de habitat, o que pode ser uma consequncia da reduzida rea de alimentao dos adultos. As dietas de adultos e filhotes foram concordantes com a abundncia das presas nas reas de estudo, o que confirma o carcter oportunista desta espcie. Sugere-se que a variao anual na disponibilidade de presas seja o factor mais importante para explicar a variao anual na dieta dos adultos de S. albifrons. 
10.2307/1368738|The nectar secreted by hummingbird-pollinated flowers is rich in sucrose, whereas nectar secreted by passerine-pollinated plants contains a mixture of glucose and fructose. To test the hypothesis that sugar preferences and nectar composition are correlated, I examined the sugar preferences of three species of Mexican hummingbirds (Amazilia rutila, Cynanthus latirostris, and Chlorostilbon canivetii). As predicted, the three species preferred sucrose over glucose, fructose, and a mixture of glucose and fructose (hexose mixture) in paired preference tests. Preferences for simple sugars were ranked as: sucrose > hexose mixture > glucose > fructose. The preference of hummingbirds for sucrose was not reversed by feeding hummingbirds a hexose mixture as a sole diet for 20 days. The preferences of hummingbirds for different sugars are puzzling because sucrose, glucose, and fructose have approximately the same energetic content. I hypothesized that sugar preferences were correlated with differences in the efficiency with which hummingbirds assimilated different sugars and/or in the time they required to process these sugars in the digestive system. Sucrose, glucose, and fructose, however, were assimilated by hummingbirds with equally high efficiency (>97%). Glucose solutions were processed by hummingbirds at a slower rate than hexose mixtures and sucrose solutions, and hence, were less profitable. Sucrose and hexose mixtures were processed at the same rate and therefore had the same profitability. Therefore, the preference of hummingbirds for sucrose over hexose mixtures cannot be explained by differences in assimilation efficiency or digestive handling time. Sucrose must be hydrolyzed into its monosaccharide components, glucose and fructose, before it can be absorbed in the intestine and used as an energy source. Relative to other birds, hummingbirds exhibit highly specialized digestive traits, such as very high rates of intestinal sucrose hydrolysis and glucose transport, which allow them to use sucrose as efficiently as mixtures of glucose and fructose. Many passerine species, in contrast, use the more easily absorbed monosaccharides, glucose and fructose, more efficiently than sucrose. The distribution of nectar sugars among bird-pollinated plants seems to be the result of the evolutionary response of plants to two sets of pollinators with different degrees of digestive specialization.
10.1525/cond.2011.100067|The Strange-tailed Tyrant (
4096527| The 1997-1998 El Nio event was one of the most severe warm episodes the Pacific Ocean experienced during the 20th century. In Washington, it resulted in above-normal sea surface temperatures and sea levels during 1997-1998 on the state's outer coast and in the Strait of Juan de Fuca. Sea surface temperature anomalies of the two areas were highly correlated during 1995-2000. Rhinoceros Auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata) chick growth rates on Protection Island in the eastern Strait of Juan de Fuca were significantly lower (19%) during the El Nio years. Although chicks' peak weights were lowest during 1997, they did not significantly differ from non-El Nio years, suggesting that birds were able to compensate for smaller or less frequent chick feedings by extending the chicks' time in the burrow. Consequently, chicks were also significantly older at peak weight during this warm event, which likely led to prolonged fledging periods. However, the 1997-1998 El Nio did not affect other aspects of Rhinoceros Auklets reproductive behavior: chick mortality, although highest in 1997, was not significantly different among years; the number of breeding attempts were similar among years; as was the timing of breeding. Thus, because of its unique breeding biology, the Rhinoceros Auklet is well adapted to ocean climatic fluctuations. /// El evento de El Nio de 1997-1998 fue uno de los episodios clidos ms severos que experiment el Ocano Pacfico durante el siglo XX. En Washington, esto condujo a un incremento por sobre lo normal de las temperaturas superficiales y de los niveles del mar durante 1997-1998 en la costa externa del estado y en el estrecho de Juan de Fuca. Las anomalas de la temperatura superficial del mar de las dos reas estuvieron altamente correlacionadas durante 1995-2000. Las tasas de crecimiento de los pichones de Cerorhinca monocerata en Protection Island en el este del Estrecho de Juan de Fuca fueron significativamente menores (19%) durante los aos de El Nio. Aunque los pesos mximos de los pichones fueron menores durante 1997, no difirieron significativamente de los pesos registrados en los aos sin El Nio, lo que sugiere que las aves fueron capaces de compensar una alimentacin menor o menos frecuente de los pichones extendiendo el perodo de permanencia de los pichones en la cavidad. Consecuentemente, los pichones fueron tambin significativamente ms viejos en el momento del alcanzar el peso mximo durante este evento clido, lo que probablemente condujo a perodos prolongados de emplumamiento. Sin embargo, El Nio de 1997-1998 no afect otros aspectos del comportamiento reproductivo de C. monocerata: la mortalidad de los pichones, aunque fue mxima en 1997, no fue significativamente diferente entre aos; el nmero de intentos reproductivos fue similar entre aos, como lo fue la sincronizacin temporal del perodo de cra. De este modo, debido a su biologa reproductiva nica, C. monocerata es capaz de adaptarse a las fluctuaciones climticas del ocano. 
10.2307/1369956|We compared levels of intraspecific variation in hindlimb tendon ossification and other hindlimb myological traits in the Tawny-winged Woodcreeper (Dendrocincla anabatina) with our previous data on the Barred Woodcreeper (Dendrocolaptes certhia) and the Ivory-billed Woodcreeper (Xiphorhynchus flavigaster). In D. anabatina, a member of a clade characterized by reduced tendon ossification, variation in tendon ossification was markedly greater than in other aspects of the hindlimb muscles, as were occurrences of bilateral variation and the number of individuals exhibiting atypical conditions. Variation in tendon ossification in D. anabatina is 5-10 times more frequent than in the other species, which have not experienced reduction in ossification. Tendon ossification in D. anabatina, and possibly in other Dendrocincla species, provides a rare example of extensive intraspecific variation in the hindlimb myology of passerines. The variant conditions in D. anabatina evolved within the Dendrocincla clade, either since D. anabatina and its sister group split, or as ancestral polymorphisms retained through speciation events. In either case, the available evidence does not support a role for directional selection in the process of evolutionary reduction in tendon ossification in Dendrocincla.
40306126|Seabirds maintain plasticity in their foraging behavior to cope with energy demands and foraging constraints that vary over the reproductive cycle, but behavioral studies comparing breeding and nonbreeding individuals are rare. Here we characterize how Marbled Murrelets (
40306127|The Patagonian Forest Earthcreeper (
10.2307/1368191|Nestling White-fronted Bee-eaters (Merops bullockoides) in Kenya show an ability to slow their development rate in response to food stress and, more importantly, to recover from stress with resumption of normal development. Successful fledging occurred at ages ranging from 22-42 days. The magnitude of developmental slowing was greatest: (1) among the youngest nestlings in large broods, (2) in seasons of overall low food availability, and (3) in nests provisioned by breeding pairs alone (i.e., nests without helpers). We speculate that this ability to slow growth reduces a nestling's daily energy requirements and thereby increases its likelihood of surviving through short periods of severe food shortage.
1370371| We investigated foraging behavior of Wandering Albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding at South Georgia to assess how sex and season-specific foraging patterns relate to provisioning performance. We estimated Wandering Albatross chicks require 60-65 kg of food over the chick-rearing period; males deliver 54% of this total. Meal size delivered by both sexes remained essentially constant throughout the post-brooding chick-rearing period, but foraging trip duration varied considerably. Females made consistently longer foraging trips and delivered smaller meals but transported an average load that was 20% heavier in proportion to their body mass than males. We suggest that chick-rearing places greater demands on females compared with males and Wandering Albatrosses work hard to deliver food during the first half of chick rearing (at the expense of their own condition), thereafter reduce their work rate, presumably so as not to compromise their survival. /// Investigamos el comportamiento de forrajeo de Diomedea exulans anidando en las islas Georgias del Sur para determinar como los patrones de forrajeo sexo-especficos y estacin-especficos se relacionan con el desempeo de aprovisionamiento. Estimamos que los polluelos de D. exulans requieren 60-65 kg de alimento durante el periodo de cra, con los machos entregando el 54% del total. El tamao de las porciones de alimento entregada por ambos sexos fue esencialmente constante a lo largo del periodo de cra post-incubatorio, pero la duracin de los viajes de forrajeo vari considerablemente. Las hembras realizaron viajes de forrajeo consistentemente ms largos, entregando porciones de alimento ms pequeas, pero transportando cargas un 20% ms pesadas en proporcin a su tamao corporal que los machos. Sugerimos que la cra de polluelos representa una mayor demanda para las hembras que para los machos, y que los albatros trabajan intensamente para entregar el alimento durante la primera mitad del perodo de cra (con el consecuente costo en su propia condicin), reduciendo luego la tasa de trabajo, presumiblemente para no comprometer su propia supervivencia. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090221|The realized niches of closely related species must differ if these species are to co-exist stably. The Gentoo (
10.2307/1370059|We examined temporal and spatial nesting aggregations in a prairie-nesting population of Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). In particular, we were interested in the effects of aggregated nesting on blackbird nest success and brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). Most cowbird parasitism occurred early in the breeding season during the peak in Red-winged Blackbird nesting. As a result, more parasitized nests were active simultaneously with other nests than were unparasitized nests, even when we controlled statistically for the effects of nest initiation date. The probability of parasitism across the entire study site did not decrease on days when many nests were initiated, suggesting no "swamping" effect of aggregated nesting on cowbirds. However, individual parasitized nests were less synchronous with their nearest neighbors and farther from the nearest simultaneously active nest than were unparasitized nests. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds may select for aggregated nesting in Red-winged Blackbirds as a result of greater parasitism pressure on isolated nests. Nests that succeeded in producing at least one fledgling were initiated significantly earlier in the breeding season than were nests that failed. Nest aggregation had no effect on nest success; successful nests were no different from failed nests in the number of simultaneously active nests, their distance to nearest simultaneously active nests, the laying interval with their nearest neighbors, and the distance to their nearest neighbors. These data suggest that nest predation (the primary cause of nest failure), in contrast to nest parasitism, does not necessarily select for aggregated nesting, or that predation and nest aggregation are related only at high nest-densities.
10.1525/cond.2010.090163|Barred Owls (
10.1525/cond.2011.100066|Using portions of three mitochondrial genes to resolve the uncertain systematic relationships, we constructed a phylogeny of the gray shrikes in the genus
10.2307/1370497|The majority of female Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) given exogenous estradiol responded to playback of male song with copulation solicitation. Nine females given no exogenous estradiol all failed to give any displays in response to playback. We conclude that estradiol treatment is necessary to elicit response to playback in captive female Red-winged Blackbirds. Given the task of discriminating full conspecific song from a partial song, females treated with a double dose of estradiol showed a degree of discrimination nearly identical to that shown by females treated with a single dose. Variation in estradiol dosage appears not to have a strong effect on discrimination.
10.1525/cond.2010.090148|Few studies at a broad geographical scale have characterized intraspecific variation in morphology of woodland hawks in the genus
40306212|We obtained 1403 base pairs of mtDNA sequences of cyt
10.2307/3247715|Allocation of nutrients to eggs and to costs of incubation in waterfowl may be constrained by the need to maintain nutrient reserves to complete incubation. This hypothesis predicts that body mass of successfully nesting females is greater than that of unsuccessful females. This prediction was tested by comparing the body masses of successful and unsuccessful female dabbling ducks captured late in incubation. Successful Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and Northern Shovelers (A. clypeata) were significantly heavier than unsuccessful females, and this process constituted evidence of directional selection. Body masses of successful and unsuccessful Blue-winged Teal (A. discors) did not differ. We calculated residual (observed-predicted) body masses using published regression equations relating mass and stage of incubation in independent samples of shovelers and teal to test whether successful females in our study were relatively heavy. Residual body mass estimates of successful shovelers were significantly greater than those of unsuccessful ones; in teal, no relationship was found. Nutrient reserves may influence successful incubation in some prairie-nesting ducks and the relationship may be stronger in larger species that are most capable of storing nutrients.
10.2307/1368121|We examined nest-site selection in Sooty Terns (Sterna fuscata) in two colonies of the Culebra Archipelago, Puerto Rico, using an experimental design to manipulate vegetation density. In 1986 Sooty Terns did not nest in six experimentally cleared plots (0% vegetation cover). In 1987 they did not use an additional cleared plot, but used the experimental plots from 1986 which had revegetated (25%-75% vegetation cover). Compared with random points, Sooty Terns selected nest sites with taller vegetation (with respect to total vegetation height, and height to canopy), with more cover directly above the nest, and that were farther from open areas. A worldwide comparison of habitat preferences and predation across islands where Sooty Terns nest revealed that on most islands Sooty Terns prefer to nest in open areas even when vegetation is available. The preference for nesting under vegetation at Culebra seems to be related to the degree of predation, and the presence of predator species which prey upon eggs, young, and adult Sooty Terns.
10.1525/cond.2012.110029|Over long time periods, urbanization is expected to have a negative effect on species diversity. Predicted effects generally follow one of three competing paradigms: diversity decay, homogenization, or community-composition turnover. However, it has been hypothesized that urban green spaces may provide a means by which urban areas can maintain or increase their species diversity over time. We used surveys conducted in 191318, 193839, and 200607 on the campus of the University of California, Berkeley, to evaluate how an avian community has changed over time in the context of urban growth. In each of the three periods the community differed greatly, yet we found no evidence for a decline in species or functional diversity. Despite the birds of the 191318 community having a greater affinity for native habitats than birds of later periods, we found no further evidence that specialists were being replaced by generalists. Of the three paradigms, our results strongly supported community-composition turnover. Parsimoniously, the habitat preferences of groups of species that changed over time were concordant with known changes in landscaping. While urbanization often does result in decreased biodiversity, our results provide an example of how an urban green space can mitigate and potentially reverse this trend within the context of dynamic community change. Our results are concordant with the view that urban green spaces can maintain original bird communities and disturbance-sensitive species can reestablish themselves given appropriate conditions.
10.2307/1367317|Nest site selection was analyzed for a Mountain Bluebird (Sialia currucoides) population using two different types of nest box in south-central Washington. The majority of adult females successful in fledging young during the previous year either returned to the same territory and nest box or selected the same type of nest box if they changed territories. If they were unsuccessful, adult females tended to change territories and box types. Most male and female bluebirds breeding for the first time selected the same type of box as housed their natal nest even though none of these birds returned to its natal territory. Nest site selection and breeding area fidelity were influenced by age, sex, previous breeding experience, and natal nest type.
10.2307/1369722| We used the doubly-labeled water technique to measure the field metabolic rate (FMR) of free-ranging adult Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) that were provisioning half-grown nestlings. FMR averaged 3.68  0.38 mL CO
10.2307/1369026|A recent study by O'Loghlen and Rothstein (1993) found that ontogeny of the Mammoth dialect flight whistle (FW) and repertoires of local perched songs (PS) was not complete by the first breeding season for male Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater artemisiae) in the eastern Sierra Nevada of California. To determine how typical of the region these results were, I compared adult and yearling vocal behavior in the Convict dialect adjacent to Mammoth and the Round Valley dialect, 55 km south and 900 m lower elevation. In the Convict group, a majority of 20 yearlings produced either incomplete local (35%) or foreign (35%) FWs. In the Round Valley, 15 of 19 yearlings (79%) gave foreign whistles. In both dialects, yearling PS repertoires lacked local song types, and in Convict, repertoires were significantly smaller than those of local adults. As was found in the Mammoth dialect, incomplete FWs of yearlings were resistant to modification during the season, and modification of yearling PS repertoires was also arrested. I propose a scheme for vocal development in these Sierran populations and discuss possible reproductive consequences of delayed vocal learning.
10.2307/1370077| I examined the thermal and energetic benefits of cavity roosting in summer and winter-acclimatized Mountain Chickadees (Poecile gambeli) and Juniper Titmice (Baeolophus griseus). Reduction of wind speed inside the cavity increased standard operative temperature 2.5 to 5.9C compared to the open sites in summer and 12.1 to 14.7C in winter. Nocturnal energy savings ranged from 23.8 to 27.9% for summer birds and 25.1 to 37.6% for winter birds roosting in cavities. Wind speed was significantly lower inside cavities compared to open sites. These energy savings result in increased fasting endurance of 2.2 to 3 hr in summer and 5.7 to 7.3 hr in winter, which may be critically important for survival throughout the annual cycle for these two species. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110065|Many birds do not breed in the year(s) immediately following independence from parental care. Instead, they spend time as immatures attaining adult plumage and spend time as floaters searching for an opportunity to breed. Floaters are nonbreeding adults. Survival during this period often is poorly understood because immatures and floaters can be secretive and range widely, making them difficult to track. From July 2006 through March 2009, we used radio-tracking data collected by aerial telemetry to estimate survival of 58 nonbreeding Crested Caracaras (
10.2307/1368532|The frequency of occurrence of helpers, their age and sex, and certain behavior at nests were investigated in Azure-winged Magpies, Cyanopica cyana, living in central Japan, a region of heavy snowfall. One group of 16 birds was a summer visitor and the other two groups of about 20 birds were resident. Out of 14 nests we observed in 1983, six had one to two helpers, one had no helper, and at the other seven we could not confirm whether helpers attended or not. Therefore, 43% to 93% of nests had helpers. One helper was known to attend at least four nests, and seven of 14 marked individuals (50%) acted as helpers. These results mean that cooperative breeding occurs regularly in this population.
10.1525/cond.2012.110054|Since the late 18
4500963| Sexual dimorphism, mating system, and parental care are known for only a few species of the large passerine family Furnariidae. We conducted a study of sexual dimorphism in morphology, coloration, and parental roles during incubation and chick-rearing in the Thorn-tailed Rayadito (Aphrastura spinicauda), a characteristic resident ovenbird of the southern temperate rainforests of Chile and Argentina. Through molecular sexing, morphological measurements, and spectrophotometric analysis of body plumage and rectrices of reproductive adults captured on Chilo Island (southern Chile), we determined that males were between 2% and 10% larger than females in mass, tarsus length, and wing length, while no difference was found for the length of the bill or the two longest central rectrices and their characteristic spines, or in plumage coloration. Heavy males were paired with heavy females and light males with light females. Males and females participated equally in all reproductive activities during the incubation and nestling phases, except removal of nestling feces, in which females were twice as active as males. In a study of habitat use on Navarino Island (extreme southern Chile) we found that the extended graduated tail, with rectrices that end in spines, which gives the species its name, was not used as a support while foraging and could be related to another function such as sexual or social signaling. The absence of sexual dimorphism in plumage and parental roles in rayaditos may be related to the use of the long, graduated tail as a signal of quality by both sexes, although this hypothesis requires confirmation through future mate choice studies. /// El dimorfismo sexual, el sistema de apareamiento y el cuidado parental solo se conocen para unas pocas especies de la gran familia de paseriformes Furnariidae. Realizamos un estudio del dimorfismo sexual en morfologa, coloracin y roles parentales durante la incubacin y la crianza de los polluelos en Aphrastura spinicauda, un furnrido residente caracterstico de los bosques lluviosos templados de Chile y Argentina. Por medio de sexado molecular, medidas morfolgicas y anlisis espectrofotomtrico del plumaje corporal y de las rectrices de adultos reproductores capturados en la Isla de Chilo (Chile meridional), determinamos que los machos eran entre un 2% y un 10% mayores que las hembras en peso y longitudes de tarso y ala, mientras no se encontraron diferencias en las longitudes del pico y de las dos rectrices centrales ms largas a cada lado de la cola as como de las caracteristicas espinas terminales de las rectrices. Machos pesados estuvieron emparejados con hembras pesadas y machos ligeros con hembras ligeras. Los machos participaron tanto como las hembras en todas las tareas reproductivas durante las fases de incubacin y crianza, excepto en cuanto a la retirada de sacos fecales, en que las hembras se mostraron el doble de activas que los machos. En un estudio en la Isla de Navarino (extremo meridional de Chile) comprobamos que la larga y graduada cola con las rectrices terminando en espinas no fue empleada como soporte durante la bsqueda de alimento, por lo que podra estar implicada en alguna otra funcin como sealizacin sexual o social. La ausencia de dimorfismo sexual en plumaje y roles parentales en el Rayadito puede estar relacionada con la utilizacin de la larga cola como seal de calidad en ambos sexos, aunque esta hiptesis requiere confirmacin a travs de futuros estudios de eleccin de pareja. 
90008470|An organisms heart rate is commonly used as an indicator of physiological stress due to environmental stimuli. We used heart rate to monitor the physiological response of American Oystercatchers (
10.2307/1368201| I used bird--banding data (1955-1988) and logistic regression analyses to test the prediction that male Evening Grosbeaks (Coccothraustes v. vespertinus) winter farther north than females, and to investigate whether age groups (first-winter vs. older) differ in their winter distribution. Males wintered farther north than females in 28 of 31 winters in eastern North America (<85W), and in 12 of 31 winters in central regions. Males typically comprised 53-65% of individuals wintering at the northern edge of the winter range, and 18-27% in the south. No differences in distribution between age classes were observed. Differential migration of the sexes in this species is most likely related to social dominance behavior or to the ability of the larger-bodied males to tolerate harsh winter conditions in northern regions. 
10.2307/1368357|Body mass and carcass composition were determined from 267 female Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) collected during the winters of 1980-1981, 1981-1982, and 1982-1983 in the Mingo Basin of southeastern Missouri. Changes in carcass composition were related to annual events, such as migration, molt, and pairing. Body and carcass masses were similar between adults and immatures within status groups. The first females arriving in the Mingo Basin in fall were mostly adults engaged in the prealternate molt; body (1,010 g) and lipid (65 g) masses of these females in mid-prealternate molt were low compared to females collected at other times during winter. Females gained body and lipid mass following the completion of the prealternate molt and most became paired in November and December. Paired females had greater lipid masses than unpaired females throughout fall and winter. Body and carcass masses of nonmolting females remained constant over winter. Females initiated the prebasic molt with relatively large body (1,118 g) and lipid (168 g) masses. Lipid mass declined curvilinearly through the middle of the prebasic molt but then increased to 188 g and 219 g by late prebasic molt and premigratory stages, respectively. Adults proceeded through annual events earlier than immatures and both immatures and adults proceeded through annual events earlier in the wet winter of 1982-1983 than in the drier winters of 1980-1981 and 1981-1982. Mallards complete annual events earlier than most other ducks and female Mallards that complete annual events early in winter may have, at least historically, realized survival and reproductive potential advantages, especially following wet winters.
4151058|We compared trophic ecology of grebes inferred from stable-isotope analysis to that from gut contents, and compared isotopic ratios of Red-necked Grebes (Podiceps grisegena) from lakes differing in their food webs. Analyses of different grebe tissues (egg yolk and albumen, pectoral and leg muscle, breast and primary feathers) also allowed us to assess the effectiveness of these tissues at representing grebe trophic relations. Isotopic ratios from pectoral and leg muscles were similar, based on comparisons within individual birds. Enriched values of
10.2307/1368157|The visits of Common Murres (Uria aalge) to breeding sites were documented in each October 1982-1987. Individually-marked birds almost invariably returned to their own breeding sites. There was no evidence that immatures, or adults from other colonies, visited the colony. The most frequently occupied sites were those which had been successful the previous season. The numbers of visits to sites increased with increasing numbers of neighbors and were higher for sites in the center of the cliff than for sites at the top and bottom. Blocking sites for 4 months did not prevent birds breeding the next season. Fall colony visiting could be explained by (a) competition for the best sites, or (b) birds returning to maintain the pair bond.
1370745| The Noisy Miner (Manorina melanocephala) is a common, cooperatively breeding meliphagid of eastern and southeastern Australia. We used DNA microsatellites to examine the apportionment of genetic diversity in Noisy Miners at disparate geographic scales to generate baseline information about the population genetic structure of this species. We examined five loci for 79 individuals from four populations. We found small amounts of genetic differentiation between paired populations separated by 30-40 km, and more substantial and significant differentiation between populations separated by more than 1000 km. This result implies substantial gene flow on local scales but much less at regional levels, probably reflecting short dispersal distances and isolation by distance. /// Manorina melanocephala es un melifgido comn del sur-este de Australia que presenta cra cooperativa. Utilizamos ADN microsatelital para examinar la distribucin de la diversidad gentica de M. melanocephala a diferentes escalas geogrficas para generar informacin bsica sobre la estructura gentica poblacional de esta especie. Examinamos 5 loci en 79 individuos pertenecientes a cuatro poblaciones. Encontramos una baja diferenciacin gentica entre pares de poblaciones separadas por 30-40 km, y una diferenciacin ms substancial y significativa entre poblaciones separadas por ms de 1000 km. Estos resultados sugieren un alto grado de flujo gnico a escala local, el cual es mucho menor a nivel regional, lo que probablemente refleja distancias de dispersin cortas y aislamiento por distancia. 
40072333|The Northern Fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) is a pelagic seabird that breeds across 25 of latitude, from the boreal to the high Arctic oceanographic zones. We examined the breeding schedule of fulmars in the remote Cape Vera colony in the Canadian high Arctic, a marine region covered by sea ice much of the year, to determine if the timing of breeding and colony attendance patterns of birds differed from the breeding phenology of fulmars in colonies farther south. Cape Vera fulmars arrived at the colony later in the year, spent less time at the colony before egg-laying, and took a significantly longer prelaying exodus from the colony compared to fulmars nesting in more southerly colonies. After egg-laying, however, patterns of colony attendance by fulmars in the high Arctic were similar to patterns for fulmars in southern colonies; this part of the fulmar breeding schedule may be inflexible. The differences in breeding schedules across the species' range might reflect behavioral adaptations by arctic-nesting birds to accommodate the physical and biological limitations imposed by extensive sea ice near arctic colonies, particularly early in the breeding season. Given that climate warming and corresponding reductions in sea ice are taking place in the Arctic, it remains to be determined whether fulmars in the high Arctic have the behavioral flexibility in their breeding phenology to compensate for rapidly occurring changes in their environment. /// Fulmarus glacialis es un ave marina pelgica que se reproduce en las zonas oceanogrficas desde los 25 de latitud norte hasta altas latitudes en el rtico. Examinamos la fenologa reproductiva de individuos de F. glacialis en la colonia remota de Cabo Vera ubicada a altas latitudes en el rtico canadiense, una regin marina cubierta por hielo durante gran parte del ao. Trabajamos all para determinar si el inicio de la reproduccin y los patrones de presencia de aves en las colonias difera de la fenologa reproductiva de colonias de F. glacialis que se encuentran ms al sur. Los individuos de Cabo Vera llegaron a las colonias ms tarde, permanecieron por menos tiempo en las colonias antes de comenzar la puesta de huevos y se ausentaron antes de la postura por un perodo significativamente ms largo que los individuos que nidificaron en colonias ms sureas. Sin embargo, despus del periodo de postura de huevos, los patrones de presencia de individuos fueron similares entre las colonias del rtico y las sureas; esta parte del periodo reproductivo podra ser inflexible. Estas diferencias en la fenologa reproductiva en el rea de distribucin de esta especie pueden reflejar adaptaciones de comportamiento por parte de las aves que nidifican en el rtico para hacer frente a las limitaciones fisicas y biolgicas impuestas por las extensas reas de hielo en el mar cercanas a las colonias del rtico, especialmente durante las etapas tempranas de la poca reproductiva. Debido al calentamiento climtico y la consecuente reductin del hielo marino que est ocurriendo en el rtico, es an necesario determinar si los individuos que se reproducen a altas latitudes en el rtico tienen la flexibilidad conductual en su fenologa reproductiva necesaria para compensar los cambios que estn ocurriendo repentinamente en su ambiente.
4151081| Nestlings can exhibit considerable variation in developmental patterns both within and among locations due to differences in environmental conditions and parental investment. I investigated trade-offs between nestling growth rate and residual body mass (body condition) at three locations across the range of the Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor). Nestlings at the northern extreme of the range in Alaska had slower growth rates, lower body mass, and higher residual body mass than nestlings in New York and Tennessee. High insect availability was correlated with increased growth rates of nestlings in New York and Tennessee, but not in Alaska. Conversely, nestlings in Alaska showed increased residual body mass with high insect availability, but nestlings in New York and Tennessee did not. The trade-off between growth rate and residual body mass varied among sites, with fast-growing nestlings in Tennessee maintaining a higher residual body mass than those in Alaska. These results suggest that factors affecting offspring growth and condition vary among sites, leading to geographical differences in offspring development trajectories. /// Los patrones de desarrollo de los polluelos en el nido pueden presentar una variacin considerable tanto entre como dentro de localidades debido a diferencias en las condiciones ambientales y en la inversin parental. Investigu el costo-beneficio entre la tasa de crecimiento de polluelos y el peso corporal residual (condicin corporal) en tres localidades a lo largo del rango de distribucin de Tachycineta bicolor. Los polluelos, en el extremo norte de distribucin en Alaska, tuvieron tasas de crecimiento ms lentas, menor peso corporal y un peso corporal residual mayor que los polluelos en Nueva York y Tennessee. La alta disponibilidad de insectos se correlacion con el aumento de la tasa de crecimiento en Nueva York y Tennessee, pero no en Alaska. De modo contrario, los polluelos en Alaska exhibieron un peso corporal residual mayor con una disponibilidad mayor de insectos, pero los polluelos en Nueva York y Tennessee no presentaron esta relacin. El costo-beneficio entre la tasa de crecimiento y el peso corporal residual vari entre localidades. Los polluelos en Tennessee, con una tasa de crecimiento mayor, mantuvieron un peso corporal residual mayor que los polluelos en Alaska. Estos resultados sugieren que los factores que afectan al crecimiento y a la condicin de la progenie varian entre localidades, originando diferencias geogrficas en las trayectorias del desarrollo de la progenie. 
1369827| We describe the rules of primary flight-feather replacement for Pelagic Cormorants (Phalacrocorax pelagicus), and contrast the completeness of primary replacement in individuals from Asia and North America. In adult Pelagic Cormorants primary replacement is stepwise, with multiple waves of molt, each initiated at the innermost primary (P1), proceeding simultaneously toward the tip of the wing. Shugart and Rohwer's (1996) ontogenetic model for generating and maintaining stepwise primary replacement depended upon incomplete molts. In each new episode of molt, waves of primary replacement were thought to be initiated at P1 and at each arrested wave that had failed to replace all old feathers in the preceding molt. Because most adult Pelagic Cormorants from North America completely replace their primaries but maintain stepwise primary molts, the latter assumption must be relaxed. In contrast to the present-day situation in North America, Pelagic Cormorants from northeastern Asia have incomplete molts of their primaries, and may be forced to skip breeding in some years to clear their wings of overworn primaries. Young birds from Asia start the replacement of their juvenile primaries later than North American birds and replace more feathers simultaneously. /// Describimos las reglas de reemplazo de plumas primarias para Phalacrocorax pelagicus y contrastamos la totalizacin del reemplazo de primarias entre individuos de Asia y Amrica del Norte. En individuos adultos, el reemplazo de primarias ocurre en varias etapas, con mltiples secuencias de muda cada una iniciada en la primaria ms interna (P1), procediendo simultneamente hacia la punta del ala. El modelo ontogentico de Shugart y Rohwer (1996) para la generacin y mantenimiento del reemplazo en etapas de las plumas primarias depende de mudas incompletas. Se pensaba que en cada nuevo episodio de muda las secuencias de reemplazo de primarias eran iniciadas en P1 y en cada punto de interrupcin de la muda precedente que hubiera impedido el reemplazo de todas las plumas viejas. Debido a que la mayora de los individuos adultos de P. pelagicus de Norteamrica reeemplazan completamente sus primarias pero an lo hacen en etapas, la ltima suposicin debe ser re-evaluada. En contraste con la situacin actual en Norteamrica, individuos del noreste de Asia tienen mudas incompletas de sus primarias y pueden verse forzados a no reproducirse en algunos aos para despojarse de la presencia de primarias desgastadas. Las aves juveniles de Asia comienzan el reemplazo de sus primarias ms tarde y reemplazan ms plumas simultneamente que las aves de Norteamrica. 
1370529| We studied the diets of nesting Swallow-tailed Kites (Elanoides forficatus) at eight nests in 1988-1989 in southern Florida, where the species reaches its greatest abundance in the United States. Males fed females during the incubation stage an average of 2.1  0.8 times per day. The adults averaged 10.9  4.5 deliveries daily during the nestling stage, and 10.3  12.5 deliveries to young daily following nest departure. Vertebrates comprised 97% of the biomass for the 1092 identifiable prey items delivered to nests. Frogs accounted for 56%, birds 30%, and reptiles 11% of all prey. Numerically, frogs made up 83% of the reptile and amphibian prey. The relative proportions of prey types varied substantially among nests within years, and significantly more snakes and insects were delivered in 1989. Total biomass delivered in 1988 did not differ from that in 1989. Bird biomass, however, was greater in 1988 and insect biomass was greater in 1989. Anoles and snakes were brought to nests in larger numbers during the morning and evening hours; and birds were delivered mainly from midmorning to midafternoon. /// Durante 1988 y 1989 estudiamos la dieta de los polluelos de Elanoides forficatus en ocho nidos localizados en el sur de la Florida, donde la especie alcanza su mayor abundancia de nidificacion dentro de los Estados Unidos. Durante la incubacin, los machos alimentaron a las hembras un promedio de 2.1  0.8 veces por da. Durante la etapa de polluelos, los adultos hicieron un promedio de 10.9  4.5 entregas diarias y un promedio de 10.3  12.5 entregas diarias despus de abandonar el nido. Los vertebrados comprendieron el 97% de la biomasa de las 1092 presas identificables entregadas en los nidos. Las ranas constituyeron el 56%, las aves el 30% y los reptiles el 11% del total de las presas. Numricamente, las ranas constituyeron el 83% de la herpetofauna depredada. Las proporciones relativas de los tipos de presa variaron substancialmente entre los nidos a travs de los aos, y considerablemente ms serpientes e insectos fueron entregados en 1989. La biomasa total entregada durante 1988 no difiri de la observada en 1989. Sin embargo, la biomasa de las aves fue mayor en 1988, mientras que la de los insectos fue mayor en 1989. Las lagartijas y serpientes fueron entregadas a los nidos en mayor cantidad durante las horas de la maana y de la tarde, mientras que las aves fueron entregadas principalmente desde la mitad de la maana hasta la mitad de la tarde. 
3247751| We examined the possible contributions of food availability and the energetic and nutritional contents of seeds on the diets of adult and juvenile Serins (Serinus serinus). We found that Serins are specialized granivores during the breeding season, with a single plant species (Diplotaxis virgata) comprising the majority of the diets' of adults and offspring. Food availability did not account for this diet specialization. Rather, the high protein and energy content of this plant appears to account for this strong preference and may explain why Serins, unlike almost all other granivorous bird species, do not provision their nestlings with insects. Because Serins and many other species often breed in modern agrosystems, knowledge of feeding adaptations may be invaluable for habitat management. /// Este trabajo examina la posible contribucin de la disponibilidad de alimento y del contenido energtico y nutricional de las semillas en la dieta de individuos adultos y jvenes de la especie Serinus serinus. Encontramos que durante la temporada de cra S. serinus se comporta como un granvoro especializado puesto que una sola planta (Diplotaxis virgata) constituye la mayor parte de la dieta de adultos y polios. La disponibilidad de alimento no explica esta especializacin trfica. Ms bien, el alto contenido proteico y energtico de las semillas es lo que parece explicar la fuerte preferencia de S. serinus por esta planta y por qu este ave, a diferencia de casi todas las especies de aves granvoras, no alimenta a sus pollos con insectos. Puesto que S. serinus y muchas otras especies animales a menudo se reproducen en modernos agrosistemas, el conocimiento de las adaptaciones alimenticias puede ser muy valioso en cuanto a manejo del hbitat se refiere. 
1370606| I examined the hypothesis that male Ovenbirds (Seiurus aurocapillus) make breeding dispersal decisions based on prior breeding experience at a site. I determined the reproductive success of color-banded male Ovenbirds at sites in fragmented and unfragmented landscapes in Missouri from 1992-1995. I documented which individuals returned and I recorded their reproductive success upon return as well as the success of birds new to each plot. I obtained similar results in both landscapes. Males with different histories of reproductive success returned at different rates. Only 2 of 22 males that were paired but failed to raise young returned in the following year, whereas the return rates of unpaired males (41%, n = 37) and males that successfully raised young (54%, n = 57) did not differ significantly (P = 0.19). The patterns were more consistent with the hypothesis that return rates were due to decisions about dispersal rather than difference in survival of individuals in these groups. /// Examin la hiptesis de que individuos de Seiurus aurocapillus hacen decisiones de dispersin reproductiva basadas en las experiencias reproductivas previas en un sitio. Determin el xito reproductivo de machos con anillos de color en lugares en terrenos fragmentados y no fragmentados de Missouri entre 1992 y 1995. Document cules individuos regresaron y su xito reproductivo al regresar, y tambin el xito de pjaros nuevos en cada sitio. Obtuve resultados semejantes en ambos paisajes. Los machos con historias de xito reproductivo diferentes presentaron ndices de regreso diferentes. Solamente 2 de 22 machos apareados que no produjeron cra volvieron al ao siguiente, mientras que los ndices de regreso de machos no apareados (41%, n = 37) y de los machos que produjeron cras exitosamente (54%, n = 57) no difirieron significativamente (P = 0.19). Los patrones concuerdan ms con la hiptesis de que los ndices de regreso se deberieron a las decisiones de dispersin y no a la diferencia de supervivencia de individuos en estos grupos. 
10.2307/1367826|Foraging behavior of permanent resident bird species in summer and winter was compared with that of summer resident and winter resident bird groups of a floodplain habitat along the lower Snake River in southeastern Washington. Ten criteria were used to compare foraging differences between seasonal groups. In summer, permanent residents differed significantly from invading summer residents in 8 of 10 foraging categories. In summer, permanent residents foraged on the forest edge, in the tree-shrub physiognomic type, and usually on the ground. Summer residents differed by feeding more frequently in trees or in the air and by gleaning insects off mulberry or willow leaves. In winter, permanent residents foraged on the ground of the forest edge, either in the tree-shrub or grass-herb physiognomic types. Winter residents fed in trees or on the ground, in the woods or forest edge, and in the tree-shrub physiognomic type. When in trees, these birds usually gleaned insects off small branches and dead leaves. Separation of foraging behavior was approximately six times greater in winter than in summer.
1370681| We report bones of 60 species of birds from the Paso de la Amada archaeological site (ca. 3600 to 3150 years old) in the Soconusco region of Chiapas, Mexico. Among 36 species of landbirds and 24 marine, estuarine, and aquatic species, four landbirds (Harpia harpyja, Ortalis vetula, Cyrtonyx ocellatus, and Ara militaris) have not been recorded previously from coastal Chiapas. Their nearest populations are characteristic of foothill or montane forest. The families of birds most commonly exploited at Paso de la Amada were Columbidae (pigeons, doves), Phasianidae (quail), Falconidae (caracaras), Ardeidae (herons), and Cracidae (chachalacas). Because of human interactions with birds and their habitats over the millennia, it is difficult or impossible to determine the precise species-level composition for any Neotropical bird community under conditions free of human influence. Prehistoric data thus improve our understanding of how these communities have changed over long time scales, whether or not the changes were anthropogenic. /// Estudiamos los huesos de 60 especies de aves encontrados en el sitio arqueolgico Paso de la Amada (aproximadamente 3600 a 3150 aos) ubicado en la regin de Soconusco, en la costa Pacfica de Chiapas, Mxico. Del total de los huesos identificados, 24 correspondieron a especies marinas, acuticas y estuarinas y 36 correspondieron a especies terrestres, de las cuales cuatro (Harpia harpyja, Ortalis vetula, Cyrtonyx ocellatus y Ara militaris) no han sido reportadas antes en la regin costera de Chiapas. Las poblaciones ms cercanas de estas especies son caractersticas de bosques piedemontanos o montanos. Las aves comnmente explotadas en el Paso de la Amada correspondan a las familias Columbidae (trtolas y palomas), Phasianidae (perdices o codornices), Falconidae (caracaras), Ardeidae (garzas) y Cracidae (pavas de monte o chachalacas). Dada la interaccin entre humanos y su entorno natural durante varios milenios es difcil o imposible reconstruir la composicin de la avifauna a nivel de especie para cualquier avifauna Neotropical, sin de influencia humana. Por lo tanto, nuestro conocimiento sobre cmo esas comunidades de aves han cambiado a gran escala a lo largo del tiempo mejorar mediante datos prehistricos, fuesen estos cambios de origen antropognico o no. 
10.2307/1367674|The aggressive and courtship displays and vocalizations of the male Anna's Hummingbird (Calypte anna) are described in detail, and various types of evidence and observations are used to reconstruct the typical courtship sequence. Initial contact is made by the female flying to the male's territory and attempting to feed; she may have previously visited several other territories in order to evaluate territory quality. The well-known dive display is an aggressive maneuver by the male, although it may play a role very early in the courtship sequence. Following a lengthy chase towards the female's nesting area, she alights low in dense vegetation. The male then gives the displays most critical for courtship: a back-and-forth "shuttle" display and high-intensity song. These hitherto undescribed displays occur immediately preceding copulation, and are probably the most important isolating mechanisms for the species. Many of the elements of courtship in C. anna are widespread in hummingbirds. Practice and probably learning play a major role in the maturation of song and dive displays in the individual. The courtship sequence in this hummingbird probably represents the resultant of various selective pressures, some acting mainly on males and others on females.
1370552| In birds, larger females generally have greater breeding propensity, reproductive investment, and success than do smaller females. However, optimal female body size also depends on how natural selection acts during other parts of the life cycle. Larger female Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) produce larger eggs than do smaller females, and ducklings from larger eggs survive better than those hatching from smaller eggs. Accordingly, we examined patterns of apparent annual survival for female scaup and tested whether natural selection on female body size primarily was stabilizing, a frequent assumption in studies of sexually dimorphic species in which males are the larger sex, or was directional, counteracting reproductive advantages of large size. We estimated survival using mark-recapture methods for individually marked females from two study sites in Canada (Erickson, Manitoba; St. Denis, Saskatchewan). Structurally larger (adults) and heavier (ducklings) females had lower survival than did smaller individuals in Manitoba; no relationship was detected in adults from Saskatchewan. Survival of adult females declined with indices of increasing reproductive effort at both sites; consequently, the cost of reproduction could explain age-related patterns of breeding propensity in scaup. Furthermore, if larger females are more likely to breed than are smaller females, then cost of reproduction also may help explain why survival was lower for larger females. Overall, we found that advantages of large body size of female scaup during breeding or as young ducklings apparently were counteracted by natural selection favoring lightweight juveniles and structurally smaller adult females through higher annual survival. /// En las aves, las hembras de mayor tamao generalmente presentan una mayor predisposicin a la reproduccin, mayor inversin reproductiva y mayor xito que las hembras de menor tamao. Sin embargo, el tamao ptimo de la hembra tambin depende de cmo la seleccin natural opera durante otras etapas del ciclo de vida. Hembras de Aythya affinis ms grandes producen huevos de mayor tamao que hembras ms pequeas, y los polluelos provenientes de huevos ms grandes sobreviven mejor que aquellos que eclosionan de huevos ms pequeos. Consiguientemente, examinamos los patrones de sobrevivencia anual aparente para hembras de A. affinis y probamos si la seleccin natural sobre el tamao del cuerpo de las hembras era principalmente estabilizadora (una suposicin frecuente en estudios de especies sexualmente dimrficas en que los machos son el sexo mayor), o era direccional, contrarrestando las ventajas reproductivas de un tamao mayor. Estimamos la sobrevivencia de hembras utilizando mtodos de marcaje y recaptura en dos sitios de estudio (Erickson, Manitoba; St. Denis, Saskatchewan). Hembras estructuralmente ms grandes (adultas) y ms pesadas (polluelos) tuvieron una menor sobrevivencia que individuos ms pequeos en Manitoba; no se detect una relacin entre adultos de Saskatchewan. En ambos sitios la sobrevivencia de hembras adultas decreci con los ndices de incremento de esfuerzo reproductivo; consecuentemente el costo reproductivo podra explicar los patrones de predisposicin reproductiva relacionados a la edad en A. affinis. Adems, si las hembras de mayor tamao presentan mayor probabilidad de reproducirse que las hembras pequeas, entonces el costo reproductivo tambin podra ayudar a explicar porqu la sobrevivencia fue menor para hembras ms grandes. En general encontramos que en las hembras de A. affinis las ventajas de un tamao corporal grande durante la cra o como juveniles fueron aparentemente contrarestadas por la seleccin natural que favorece juveniles de peso liviano y hembras adultas estructuralmente ms pequeas a travs de una mayor sobrevivencia anual. 
4096547| The effects of harvest-created canopy gaps in bottomland hardwood forests on arthropod abundance and, hence, the foraging ecology of birds are poorly understood. I predicted that arthropod abundance would be high near edges of group-selection harvest gaps and lower in the surrounding forest, and that male Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina) foraging near gaps would find more prey per unit time than those foraging in the surrounding forest. In fact, arthropod abundance was greater >100 m from a gap edge than at 0-30 m or 30-100 m from an edge, due to their abundance on switchcane (Arundinaria gigantea); arthropods did not differ in abundance among distances from gaps on oaks (Quercus spp.) or red maple (Acer rubrum). Similarly, Hooded Warbler foraging attack rates were not higher near gap edges: when foraging for fledglings, attack rate did not differ among distances from gaps, but when foraging for themselves, attack rates actually were lower 0-30 m from gap edges than 30-100 m or >100 m from a gap edge. Foraging attack rate was positively associated with arthropod abundance. Hooded Warblers apparently encountered fewer prey and presumably foraged less efficiently where arthropods were least abundant, i.e., near gaps. That attack rates among birds foraging for fledglings were not affected by distance from gap (and hence arthropod abundance) suggests that prey availability may not be limiting at any location across the forest, despite the depressing effects of gaps on arthropod abundance. /// El efecto de la creacin de claros en el dosel por la cosecha de rboles en bosques leosos ribereos sobre la abundancia de artrpodos y por lo tanto sobre la ecologa de forrajeo de las aves es poco entendido. En este estudio, predije que la abundancia de artrpodos sera mayor cerca de los bordes de claros producidos por tala selectiva en grupo y menor en el bosque circundante, y que los machos de Wilsonia citrina que forrajean cerca de los claros encontraran ms presas por unidad de tiempo que aquellos que forrajean en el bosque circundante. De hecho, la abundancia de artrpodos fue mayor a ms de 100 m del borde de los claros que entre 0 y 30 m o entre 30 y 100 m desde un borde, debido a la abundancia de los artrpodos sobre Arundinaria gigantea. La abundancia de artrpodos sobre Quercus spp o Acer rubrum no fue diferente entre distintas categoras de distancia desde los claros. De manera similar, las tasas de ataque de forrajeo de W. citrina no fueron may ores cerca de los bordes de los claros: cuando se encontraban forrajeando para los polluelos, las tasas de ataque no fueron diferentes entre las distancias desde los claros, pero cuando se encontraban forrajeando para ellos mismos, las tasas de ataque fueron menores entre 0 y 30 m desde el borde de un claro a ms de 30 m de un borde de un claro. La tasa de ataques de forrajeo se relacion positivamente con la abundancia de artrpodos. Aparentemente, W. citrina encontr menos presas y posiblemente forraje de una manera menos eficiente donde los artrpodos eran menos abundantes, i.e., cerca de los claros. El hecho de que la tasa de ataque por parte de individuos que estaban forrajeando para sus polluelos no fuera afectada por la distancia a los bordes (y por lo tanto por la abundancia de artrpodos) sugiere que la disponibilidad de presas no parece ser limitante en ningn lugar del bosque, a pesar del efecto negativo de los claros sobre la abundancia de artrpodos. 
10.2307/1368574| We analyzed food habits, digestive organs, and nutrient reserves (lipid, protein, and mineral) of male and female Northern Shovelers (Anas clypeata) nesting in southern Manitoba. We studied shovelers because, on an annual basis, they consume more animal matter than do other Anas spp. Thus, they are ideal subjects for testing the hypothesis that the inability of female ducks to obtain animal protein during egg laying limits clutch size. Predictably, we found that, during prelaying and laying, males and females primarily ate aquatic invertebrates. Despite this, the intestine lengths of breeding shovelers, particularly of females, are longer than those of many other waterfowl, which may be a response to an energy-deficient diet. Nutrient reserves of males changed little during prelaying and laying. Lipid reserves of females, on average, declined by 0.72 g for every 1 g of lipid that they deposited in eggs. Furthermore, in females that had laid  five eggs, there was a positive correlation (+0.60) between number of developing ovarian follicles and size of lipid reserves. Remarkably, however, the protein reserves of females increased by 0.1 g for every 1 g of protein committed to reproductive tissue. Mineral reserves were unrelated to eggshell production. The decline in lipid and protein reserves of incubating females could account for 26% of their energy requirements during that period. The protein: lipid ratio in shoveler diets was about 14:1, whereas that in the reproductive tissue (eggs and oviduct) was near unity. Thus, we argue that lipid reserves, not protein acquisition, limit clutch size of shovelers and also that the importance of protein to temperate-nesting waterfowl has been overemphasized. We conclude that most intraspecific variation in clutch size of waterfowl is proximately caused and, thus, that few females lay the optimum clutch size, i.e., the average clutch size is not directly a product of natural selection, and probably reflects nutrients available to the average female. 
10.2307/1368677| Waterfowl often begin incubation during egg laying, thus creating developmental asynchrony within clutches. We investigated levels of intraclutch developmental asynchrony (IDA) during early incubation within naturally incubated clutches of Wood Ducks (Aix sponsa) in South Carolina. IDA averaged 2.2  1.0 SD days (n = 59) during a 2-year study. A higher average level of IDA in 1988 corresponded with larger average clutch size during that year. Date of nesting did not affect levels of IDA, but larger clutches had increased levels of IDA. In 1988, reduced hatching success was observed in clutches with greater than 3 days of developmental asynchrony, suggesting a cost associated with the early initiation of incubation while still laying eggs. Nest attendance data collected during the later stages of egg laying indicated that females spent approximately 50% of the day at the nest. Female Wood Ducks engaged in nocturnal nest attendance during egg laying thereby allowing time to meet the nutrient demands of egg synthesis during the diurnal period. 
4096551| We describe how levels of glucose, triglyceride, fatty acids, glycerol, -hydroxybutyrate, uric acid, and corticosterone varied in the blood of Pied Flycatchers (Ficedula hypoleuca) during three breeding cycles. Data are for egg-laying and incubating females, and adults of both sexes that were caring for nestlings. Egg-laying females had high blood levels of triglyceride, fatty acids, and uric acid. Triglyceride and fatty acids decreased steadily with the laying of each new egg, whereas uric acid increased. This pattern of change in blood lipids would be expected as the number of ovarian follicles that are loaded with yolk precursors and subsequently ovulated diminishes. The rising uric acid level probably reflects increased consumption and subsequent catabolism of dietary proteins. Corticosterone levels were low suggesting that food was readily available for the production of eggs. Incubating females used fat as fuel, most of which was probably of dietary origin given their low blood triglyceride coupled with high fatty acid, glycerol, and corticosterone levels, and stable, high body weight. None of the birds' plasma constituents varied with clutch size or the length of time the females had been incubating. Females rearing broods exhibited low triglyceride and high -hydroxybutyrate and corticosterone levels. Blood glycerol and free fatty acids rose steadily as a function of nestling age, while glucose and body weight declined. Such a picture suggests that females underwent transient bouts of fasting while providing their chicks with food. Meanwhile males were lighter than their mates and had lower blood metabolite levels, but their blood corticosterone was elevated and correlated with uric acid levels, suggesting that they took more time to forage for themselves than females. Nonetheless, they too lost weight during this stage of the breeding cycle. /// Describimos la variacin en los niveles sanguneos de glucosa, triglicridos, cidos grasos, glicerol, betahidroxibutirato y corticosterona en Ficedula hypoleuca durante tres ciclos reproductivos. Los datos son para hembras que estaban poniendo o incubando huevos y para adultos de ambos sexos que estaban criando pichones. Las hembras que estaban poniendo huevos presentaron niveles altos de triglicridos, cidos grasos y cido rico. Los triglicridos y cidos grasos disminuyeron regularmente con la puesta de cada huevo nuevo, mientras que el cido rico aument. Este patrn de cambio en los lpidos sangu neos era esperable debido a la disminucin del nmero de folculos ovricos cargados con precursores de la yema que son subsecuentemente ovulados. El incremento en el nivel de cido rico probablemente refleja un incremento en el consumo y posterior catabolismo de protenas dietarias. Los niveles de corticosterona fueron bajos, lo que sugiere que exista una alta disponibilidad de alimento para la produccin de huevos. Las hembras que estaban incubando utilizaron las grasas como combustible. Considerando los niveles bajos de triglicridos, los niveles altos de cidos grasos, glicerol y corticosterona, y el peso corporal alto y estable de las aves, la mayor parte de estas grasas fue probablemente de origen dietario. Ninguno de los constituyentes del plasma sanguneo vari con respecto al tamao de la nidada o al perodo de tiempo durante el que las hembras haban estado incubando. Las hembras que estaban criando pichones presentaron niveles bajos de triglicridos y niveles altos de betahidroxibutirato y corticosterona. El glicerol y los cidos grasos sanguneos se incrementaron con regularidad en funcin de la edad de los pichones, mientras que la glucosa y el tamao corporal disminuyeron. Estos resultados sugieren que las hembras pasaron por perodos transitorios de ayuno mientras provean alimento a sus pichones. Por su parte, los machos fueron ms livianos que sus parejas y tuvieron niveles menores de metabolitos sanguneos, pero su corticosterona sangunea fue elevada y se corrrelacion con los niveles de cido rico, lo que sugiere que los machos invirtieron ms tiempo en forrajear para ellos mismos que las hembras. Sin embargo, los machos tambin perdieron peso durante esta etapa del ciclo reproductivo. 
4096492| We investigated patterns and consequences of intraclutch egg-size variation in Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus). First-laid eggs were significantly larger than second-laid eggs, although the mean difference represented only 2% of an average egg's volume. The degree of intraclutch egg-size variation was similar among years and females of different ages. Intraclutch egg-size variation did not affect intraclutch differences in chick hatching weights or fledging success. We found no selective advantage for laying eggs of different sizes. Because both eggs have an equal probability of being lost, chance favors equal provisioning of eggs. Egg volume explained 35% of the variation in hatching weight but did not determine fledging success. Laying order, year, and female age were better predictors of fledging success than egg size. Factors such as laying and hatching order, parental quality, oceanographic conditions, fights, and predation are more important in determining chick survival than are differences in egg size. /// Investigamos los patrones y las consecuencias de la variacin intra-nidada del tamao del huevo en Spheniscus magellanicus. Los huevos de la primera puesta fueron significativamente mayores que los huevos de la segunda puesta, aunque la diferencia media solo represento el 2% del volumen total de un huevo promedio. El grado de variacin intra-nidada del tamao del huevo fue similar intre aos y hembras de edades diferentes. La variacin intra-nidada del tamao del huevo no afect las diferencias intra-nidada del peso de eclosin de los pichones o el xito de emplumamiento. La puesta de huevos de diferentes tamaos no represent una ventaja selectiva. Debido a que ambos huevos tienen la misma probabilidad de desaparecer, el azar favorece el aprovisionamiento igualitario de los huevos. Tambin determinamos la importancia del ao, la edad de la hembra, el volumen del huevo y el orden de la puesta en relacin al peso de eclosin y la probabilidad de emplumamiento. El volumen del huevo explic el 35% de la variacin en el peso de la eclosin pero no determin el xito de emplumamiento. El orden de la puesta, junto con el ao y la edad de la hembra, predijeron mejor el xito de emplumamiento que el tamao del huevo. En trminos generales, los factores como el orden de puesta o eclosin, la calidad de los padres, las condiciones oceanogrficas, las peleas y la depredacion son ms importantes en determinar la supervivencia de los pichones que las diferencias en el tamano del huevo. 
10.2307/1367979|Molts and plumages of Lesser Golden-Plovers (Pluvialis dominica fulva) were studied in Hawaii and at Enewetak Atoll, Marshall Islands. Data from collected specimens, color-banded individuals, and field observations have been integrated to trace the prebasic and prealternate body molts, the molt and wear of the primary remiges, and the morphology and molt of the rectrices. Fall juvenal birds have distinctively barred underparts. This juvenal feathering is replaced with adult-like basic I plumage by early winter. The juvenal primaries are not molted in the first winter; the condition of the juvenal rectrices varies individually from no molt to complete replacement during this period. Overall appearance in the first spring ranges from basic to full alternate. The less colorful birds "over-summer" on the wintering range, the others migrate. Migrants retain their juvenal primaries until the prebasic II molt in the next fall and winter, "over-summering" birds begin primary molt during the summer. A few individuals "over-summer" for a second time. These birds generally have well-developed alternate plumages, and again commence primary molt earlier than migrants. The alternative patterns of either migrating or "over-summering" in the first two years, together with the adult molt schedule, produce several age-related combinations of body plumage and primary feather wear. The outermost (sixth pair) rectrices are helpful indicators of age and sex, but exceptions are relatively frequent. Typical juvenal birds have drab, unbarred sixth rectrices; adult feathers are barred and the pattern is sexually dimorphic.
40072447|Birds in which only one sex incubates the eggs are often faced with a direct conflict between foraging to meet metabolic needs and incubation. Knowledge of environmental and ecological factors that shape life-history strategies of incubation is limited. We used continuous videography to make precise measurements of female Greater Sage-Grouse (
10.2307/1367067|Using multivariate discriminant analysis, we examined 337 songs of 19 species of wood warblers sympatric in New Brunswick, Canada. We divided the warblers into five overlapping groups of species based on habits and songs. Our hypothesis was that song features would be the most reliable at high noise levels or under conditions of poor transmission. Hence, we predicted that within most of these groups the songs would segregate highly on the basis of song features alone, as opposed to features of individual sounds or phones. In four of the groups the analysis correctly classified 84 to 95% of the songs on the basis of song features alone. In Group 5 (Yellow, Chestnut-sided, Redstart, Magnolia warblers), only 68% were correctly classified on the same basis. The addition of phone features to discrimination for this group increased the correct classification to 85%. In some groups the frequency modulation patterns of the phones are so simple that they contribute little to improved discriminations. The relative contributions of phones may be functionally related to the importance of possible competitors, the distance of the communication and other noise factors, and to the relative development of repertoires.
10.2307/1369983|We do not know whether the movements of irruptive migrants are fundamentally different from more conventional migration of birds to their wintering areas because irruptive migration has never been thoroughly described for any species on a continent-wide scale. We use data from a citizen-based monitoring program, Project FeederWatch, to describe the patterns of movements of redpolls (principally Carduelis flammea) across North America in 1993-1994, the winter of a major irruptive migration. Although redpolls moved into new areas during this irruptive migration, the normal wintering range was not completely abandoned. In fact, redpolls were more prevalent in the southern part of their normal wintering range in an irruption year than was typical in non-irruption years. There also was no indication that the majority of the North American population of redpolls moved continuously through the winter: although redpolls peaked in prevalence at different times across the continent, their spring departure was relatively synchronous across the entire continent. Group sizes were typically smaller the later redpolls arrived in a region, also suggesting that the entire redpoll population did not move continuously. In contrast to a non-irruptive migrant, the American Tree Sparrow (Spizella arborea), redpolls arrived at feeders in a given region later but reached peak densities more quickly. Our results suggest that the irruptive migration of redpolls is more allied to conventional winter migration than to nomadism.
10.2307/1370073|We used playback in the field to test Boat-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus major) for the ability to discriminate local songs from foreign songs. Male grackles responded more strongly to songs recorded at their own colony than to songs recorded at colonies 4-13 km distant. Female grackles showed little response to either local or foreign song.
10.2307/1367661|Groups of photosensitive male Black-headed Buntings (Emberiza melanocephala) were exposed to long (15L/9D) and short (8L/16D) daily photoregimes for a period of 120 days. Another group of buntings was simultaneously exposed to normal day lengths and served as a control. Birds were weighed and laparotomized at intervals of 30 days during the treatment period. The buntings exhibited photoperiodic responses similar to those of many north temperate birds from mid- and high latitudes. Long days caused complete gonadal development followed by rapid testicular regression and photorefractoriness, whereas short days inhibited testicular development. Premigratory fattening followed by metabolic photorefractoriness also developed in photostimulated birds.
10.2307/1368690|A 6-year study of shorebird use of intertidal habitats of the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta revealed this area to be one of the premiere sites for shorebirds throughout the Holarctic and worthy of designation as a Hemispheric Shorebird Reserve in the Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network. The study area, which covered 10% (300 km<sup>2</sup>) of the delta's intertidal flats, regularly hosted 17 species of shorebirds between late April and mid-October. The greatest use was during the postbreeding period (late June-October), when Dunlins (Calidris alpina), Western Sandpipers (C. mauri), and Rock Sandpipers (C. ptilocnemis), each with large local nesting populations, accounted for 95% of the shorebirds recorded. Peak counts during autumn approached 300,000 birds. Considering the seasonal occurrence and turnover of populations, we estimate 1-2 million shorebirds use the central delta each year. The delta supports large fractions of the Pacific Rim or world populations of Bar-tailed Godwits (Limosa lapponica), Black Turnstones (Arenaria melanocephala), Red Knots (C. canutus), Western Sandpipers, Dunlins, and Rock Sandpipers. Densities of shorebirds using the central delta's four major bays and connecting coastal areas peaked at 950 shorebirds/km<sup>2</sup> in early September. Hazen Bay frequently hosted more than 1,200 shorebirds/km<sup>2</sup>. Postbreeding shorebirds used intertidal habitats in three distinct patterns according to age class. For most species (n = 7), there was a period when adults appeared first, followed by a brief interval when adults and juveniles mixed, then by a prolonged period when only juveniles remained. In the second pattern (n = 3 species), adults moved onto the intertidal flats first, were later joined by juveniles for a prolonged staging period, then migrated with them. In the third pattern (n = 3 species), only juveniles used the delta's intertidal habitat. Temporal segregation among species and age groups may minimize competition for food and thereby allow the delta to support high diversity and numbers of shorebirds.
10.2307/1369247|The relationship between spring snow depth and breeding success of an introduced population of White-tailed Ptarmigan (Lagopus leucurus altipetens) in the Sierra Nevada, California, was studied from 1982 through 1987. Yearly spring snow depth varied from 50.8 cm to 424.2 cm. Hatch dates were later in years of deep snow (P < 0.05) but brood size showed no relation to snow depth. Nesting success, chick survival, and brood success (all of which contribute to breeding success) were negatively correlated with snow depth as was breeding success (P < 0.05). The number of paired ptarmigan in the study area varied from 22 (in 1987) to 46 in 1985 which was the year with the least snow; however, no significant relationship existed between breeding numbers and snow depth. Successful reproduction of White-tailed Ptarmigan in the Sierra Nevada appears to be strongly affected by snow, potentially due to its influence on the availability of resources such as nest sites, food, and cover.
10.1525/cond.2011.100244|The taxonomy of Hauxwells Thrush (
10.2307/1367477|I observed 17 bird species feeding on herring eggs throughout high and low tides at high rocky intertidal and low intertidal areas in an Oregon estuary. At low tide gulls fed directly on eggs, but at high tide they pirated eggs from diving birds or picked up eggs drifting in water. Brant, wigeon, and coots picked up eggs while walking, or tipping up or through piracy; in deeper water coots dove for eggs. Diving ducks obtained eggs by diving, by piracy, or by picking up eggs while swimming. Less than 25% of the gulls, coots, or Buffleheads, but as many as 45% of the scaups and 83% of the scoters observed in the lower estuary were in groups feeding on herring eggs. The species composition and abundance of birds varied within the estuary and probably reflected: 1) the onset of spring migration; 2) immigration of birds into the estuary to feed on eggs; 3) the presence of birds near a site of egg deposition; and 4) the domination of herring egg deposits by gulls in the upper intertidal zone.
10.2307/1368381| Habitats of Brewer's Sparrows (Spizella breweri) and Green-tailed Towhees (Pipilo chlorurus) were compared (as biological replicates) in Colorado, Nevada, and Utah to identify regional commonalities in vegetation species, structure, and vigor among habitats of shrubsteppe passerines. Sparrow habitats were in landscapes dominated by sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) whereas towhee habitats were better described as ecotones between sagebrush and other shrub species. Individuals of both species selected bushes of comparable vegetative vigor across the three states even though species populations were allopatric in two of the states. For each species, measures of vegetation structure and vigor were compared between breeding habitats in Colorado and Nevada (near the longitudinal extremes of the continental distribution of each species at 42N latitude) in 1983. Sparrow habitats in the two states were similar in four measures of vigor but differed in all structural variables measured. Towhee habitats were similar between Colorado and Nevada for three measures of vigor and three measures of structure. Independent tests of the Colorado/Nevada conclusions were conducted near the center of the species' ranges (Utah) in the subsequent breeding season (1984). Those tests confirmed the validity of all measures of vegetation vigor as descriptors of sparrow habitat and one measure of vigor plus two of vegetation structure as descriptors of towhee habitat. Thus, sparrow habitats were best characterized regionally by measures of sagebrush vigor, whereas towhee habitats were characterized by shrub vigor and structure. Our tests and conclusions generally support recent, correlational studies that identify vegetative physiognomy as the primary descriptor of passerine habitats at a regional scale and floristic composition as the primary descriptor at a local scale. We add that individuals of these two species selected habitats from a mosaic of patches of varying vegetation vigor (supplemented by structural information for towhees) within a locale. Measures of vegetation vigor are rarely used to described passerine habitats, although vigor surely correlates better with food abundance and cover for nests than vegetation structure. These observations suggest an hierarchical approach for viewing habitat selection by shrubsteppe birds. 
10.2307/1369753|We compared strip transect and radio-tracking methods of determining foraging range of Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla). The mean distance birds were observed from their colony determined by radio-tracking was significantly greater than the mean value calculated from strip transects. We determined that this difference was due to two sources of bias: (1) as distance from the colony increased, the area of available habitat also increased resulting in decreasing bird densities (bird spreading). Consequently, the probability of detecting birds during transect surveys also would decrease as distance from the colony increased, and (2) the maximum distance birds were observed from the colony during radio-tracking exceeded the extent of the strip transect survey. We compared the observed number of birds seen on the strip transect survey to the predictions of a model of the decreasing probability of detection due to bird spreading. Strip transect data were significantly different from modeled data; however, the field data were consistently equal to or below the model predictions, indicating a general conformity to the concept of declining detection at increasing distance. We conclude that radio-tracking data gave a more representative indication of foraging distances than did strip transect sampling. Previous studies of seabirds that have used strip transect sampling without accounting for bird spreading or the effects of study-area limitations probably underestimated foraging range.
10.2307/1366786|Records of 30 species are newly reported for Bolivia, based on the authors' field work and hitherto unpublished museum specimens. Three additional difficult-to-identify species are reported without specimen or photographic evidence. Some of the records could have been expected while others indicate notable range expansions.
10.2307/1369283|I determined the amount of time Greater White-fronted Geese (Anser albifrons frontalis) allocated to various activities from September to May, 1980-1982 at their primary wintering areas in the Pacific Flyway of North America. The length of time spent on roosts during the day was positively correlated to day length. Geese at roost sites spent the majority of their time sleeping (24-46%), alert (17-40%), walking or swimming (6-24%), and in comfort behaviors (3-25%). The amount of time geese fed each day varied little from early autumn to late spring (4.5-4.9 hr), except during mid-winter when minimum temperatures were below freezing (3.9 hr), and immediately before migration in spring (6.3 hr). The proportion of time devoted to feeding and alert behavior, the two most dominant activities at field sites, varied significantly among seasons and locations. The amount of time geese were actively engaged in foraging each season was more dependent on feeding intensity than the amount of time spent at foraging sites (fields), and varied almost three-fold, from 1.8 hr during late winter to 5.1 hr during late spring. Geese fed in closer proximity to conspecifics, were more frequently disturbed, and spent less time feeding during the hunting season. Exploitation of high energy foods and catabolism of substantial energy reserves probably enabled geese to minimize foraging time during periods of harsh weather and high predation pressure. Seasonal variation in the proportion of time spent feeding corresponded closely to changes in body mass. Greater White-fronted Geese wintering in the Pacific Flyway spent substantially less time feeding than they do in Europe, as geese in California fed primarily on high energy cereal grains, while in Europe they subsist on green vegetation which has relatively less digestible energy than cereal grains.
10.1525/cond.2010.100017|In the Great Lakes region, numbers of the Piping Plover (
4096521| Quantifying the dynamics of populations is fundamental to understanding life-history strategies, and essential for population modeling and conservation biology. Few details of the demography and life history of the Sabine's Gull (Xema sabini) are known. Uniquely color banded Sabine's Gulls breeding in East Bay, Southampton Island, Nunavut, in the eastern Canadian Arctic, were examined from 1998-2002 to quantify vital rates. Generally, birds banded as chicks first returned to the breeding area in their third year, and the earliest case of first breeding was confirmed at three years of age. Sabine's Gull pairs showed strong tenacity to their breeding site from year to year, with most pairs nesting within approximately 100 m of the previous year's site, regardless of nest success. Individuals also showed strong year-to-year fidelity to their mates. However, birds whose previous partner failed to return, or returned late, were quick to remate. On rare occasions, birds were not seen in the study area in a particular year, but seen again in later years, either because they were missed, had dispersed temporarily outside the study area, or did not return to the breeding area in some years. Standard Capture-Mark-Recapture analyses were used to calculate local resighting and survival rates. Local annual survival rate of adult Sabine's Gulls was 0.89  0.03, similar to annual adult survival estimates recently reported for other small to medium-sized gulls and terns. /// Cuantificar la dinmica de las poblaciones es fundamental para entender las estrategias de historia de vida y es esencial para la realizacin de modelos poblacionales y para la conservacin biolgica. Se conocen pocos detalles sobre la demografa e historia de vida de la gaviota Xema sabini. Para cuantificar sus tasas vitales, en este estudio se examinaron gaviotas anilladas que estaban criando en East Bay, Southampton Island, Nunavut (rtico canadiense) entre 1998 y 2002. Generalmente, las aves que fueron anilladas como pichones regresaron al rea de cra en su tercer ao, y el caso de primer apareamiento ms temprano fue confirmado a los tres aos de edad. Las parejas exhibieron un fuerte apego a su sitio de nidificacin de ao a ao: la mayora nidificaron a menos de aproximadamente 100 m del lugar en donde lo hicieron el ao anterior, independientemente de su xito de nidificacin. Los individuos tambin mostraron gran fidelidad a sus parejas ao a ao. Sin embargo, las aves cuyas parejas no regresaron o lo hicieron tardamente, encontraron nuevas parejas rpidamente. En raras ocasiones, algunas aves no fueron vistas en el rea de estudio durante un ao particular, pero fueron vistas en aos siguientes, ya sea porque no fueron detectadas a pesar de estar presentes, porque se haban dispersado hacia afuera del rea de estudio temporalmente o porque no regresaron al rea de cra en algunos aos. Se emplearon anlisis estndar de captura, marcado y recaptura para calcular las tasas locales de reavistamiento y supervivencia. La tasa de supervivencia anual de los adultos de X. sabini fue 0.89  0.03, un valor similar a los valores estimados de supervivencia anual de adultos documentados recientemente para gaviotines y otras gaviotas de tamao medio. 
10.2307/1369542| To better understand responses of the avian gastrointestinal tract to fasting, fifteen domestic fowls (Gallus), two Ring-necked Pheasants (Phasianus), and two Barred Owls (Strix) were implanted with chronic Ag-AgCl electrodes and extended myoelectric recordings were made during different degrees of feeding or fasting. The motility responses are described, especially single, strong, spike potential bursts (SPBs) that rapidly propagated in an orad direction. The best explanation for our observations seems to be that when the food in the lumen of the upper digestive tract of a chicken begins to be exhausted, fed-state activity in the gizzard and duodenum is restimulated for a short period by single orad SPBs that propagate rapidly from the distal ileum. This stimulation presumably results from nutritive material being moved into the duodenum and gizzard. When one SPB becomes insufficient to stimulate upper-tract activity, orad SPBs begin to occur more frequently. Eventually the stronger rhythmic oscillating complex (ROC) occurs when SPBs no longer elicit fed-state activity. The ROC's extended activity presumably moves nutritive material more effectively than single SPBs. After a ROC, fed-state activity in the stomach and duodenum continues for a longer period (30-60 min in birds fasted for 24 hr). Both SPBs and ROCs continue to occur as long as a bird fasts (80 hr). Single strong orad SPBs and prolonged ROCs appear to be successive mechanisms whereby, in times of food deprivation, the gut maximizes its nutritive resources by recycling whatever food still remains within the digestive system. This system exists in the two galliforms studied, but apparently not in Barred Owls. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110149|Within bird populations, eggs vary extensively in size, shape, and color, but individual females tend to lay eggs that are relatively consistent in most traits. We measured all eggs laid by individual female Savannah Sparrows (
10.2307/1369655|I relate marine bird density to the 55 strongest thermal fronts encountered during a survey of much of the eastern portion of the California Current and the adjacent coastal upwelling region. Elevated densities were recorded for all marine bird taxa except the Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa). The variance explained by the regression models ranged from 3% for the Leach's Storm-Petrel to 85% for all marine birds. The response observed is notably stronger than previous analyses with similar data.
10.2307/1369602|Male and female Dark-eyed Juncos, Junco hyemalis hyemalis, partially segregate along a latitudinal gradient in North America during winter. The sex ratio favors males in the north and females in the south. The sexes differ, not only in their midwinter distribution, but also in the timing of fall migration, with females passing through stopover sites earlier than males. To investigate the basis for these differences in migration patterns, several measures of migratory behavior, including the date of onset and the duration of migratory activity (Zugunruhe), were compared in captive adult male and female juncos. When held under the same photoperiod and given free access to food, females initiated fall Zugunruhe twelve days earlier than males and continued to be active after the males stopped. This resulted in females showing, on average, 21 more days of migratory activity. There was no difference between the sexes in the proportion of nights during the migration period spent exhibiting migratory activity or in the average amount of activity per bird for the season. Females briefly showed higher migratory activity in early September. Both sexes exhibited a significant increase in body fat at the onset of migratory activity but there was no significant difference between the two groups at any time during the sampling period. Although differences in social status, physiological constraints, and/or importance of early arrival have been proposed as both past and current factors influencing differential migration in many species, these data illustrate sufficient endogenous sex-related differences that can result in differential migration in Dark-eyed Juncos.
4096507| The topography of western North America provides a complex landscape for landbird migrants, and stopover patterns in this region are poorly understood. We examined seven years of stopover data (1997-2003) from a montane area in southwestern Idaho to determine whether this area provides suitable stopover habitat. We compared the proportion of birds recaptured, stopover duration, and changes in energetic condition within and among species and between two mist-netting sites located in different habitats. The proportion of birds recaptured ranged from zero to over 20%, and fewer than 5% of individuals were recaptured in most species. Mean minimum stopover durations from recapture data ranged from 1 to 10 days; most species averaged less than 6 days. Stopover duration estimates from open-population models were comparable but generally greater than estimates from recapture data. As found in stopover studies from other regions, stopover metrics varied within and among species in Idaho. However, most migrants in this study exhibited an ability to gain mass, evidenced both by recapture data and by regression of energetic condition against time since sunrise. These data imply that montane habitats in Idaho are suitable stopover sites. It follows that these habitats might serve an important role for many landbird migrants during the period of late summer molt and autumn migration, a time when many lowland areas of the West, including some riparian systems, are especially arid. We suggest that including montane nonriparian habitats in future stopover ecology studies will allow for a more complete understanding of migrant habitat needs in the West. /// La topografa del oeste de Norte Amrica representa un paisaje complejo para las aves terrestres migratorias, y los patrones de escala migratoria en esta regin son poco conocidos. En este estudio examinamos datos de escalas migratorias colectados a travs de siete aos (1997-2003) en un rea montana del suroeste de Idaho para determinar si esta rea provee hbitats de escala adecuados. Comparamos la proporcin de aves recapturadas, la duracin del perodo de escala y los cambios en la condicin energtica por especie y entre especies y entre dos sitios de captura con redes de niebla ubicados en hbitats diferentes. La proporcin de aves recapturadas vari entre cero y ms del 20%, y en la mayora de las especies menos del 5% de los individuos fueron recapturados. La duracin mnima promedio de los perodos de escala estimada a partir de datos de recapturas estuvo entre uno y 10 das, y la estancia promedio de la mayora de las especies fue menor de seis das. Los estimados de la duracin de los perodos de escala calculados con modelos de poblacin abierta fueron comparables (pero generalmente mayores) a los estimados basados en datos de recaptura. Tal como se ha encontrado en estudios sobre escalas migratorias realizados en otras regiones, en Idaho las mediciones tomadas durante el perodo de escala variaron dentro de cada especie y entre especies. Sin embargo, la mayora de las especies migrantes que estudiamos tuvieron la habilidad de incrementar su peso, lo que se evidenci por medio de los datos de recaptura y de anlisis de regresin entre la condicin energtica y el tiempo transcurrido desde la salida del sol. Estos datos implican que los ambientes montanos de Idaho son lugares de escala migratoria adecuados. Por lo tanto, estos hbitats pueden ser importantes para muchas aves terrestres durante el perodo de la muda del final del verano y la migracin de otoo, un momento durante el cual muchas reas de tierras bajas del oeste, incluyendo sistemas riparios, son especialmente secas. Sugerimos que incluir ambientes montanos no riparios en estudios futuros de la ecologa de los perodos de escala migratoria permitir tener un entendimiento ms completo de los requerimientos de hbitat de las aves migratorias en el oeste. 
10.2307/1369984| During 17 cruises, 1983 to 1991, we recorded flight directions and densities of Sooty Shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) migrating across the equatorial Pacific, between the Americas and 170W. Sooty Shearwaters breed in New Zealand and Chile in winter (seasons given as "boreal"), migrate to the North Pacific during spring, and return south in autumn. A two-fold increase in numbers seen flying northwest from the Peru Current in spring compared to the number flying southeast on return in autumn, and a six-fold increase in numbers flying southwest towards New Zealand during autumn compared to the number migrating northeast during spring, indicates that many completed a figure-eight route (ca. 40,500 km) each year. This route would involve easterly flight from New Zealand to the Peru Current in winter, northwesterly flight to the western North Pacific in spring, eastward movement to the eastern North Pacific during summer, and southwest flight to New Zealand during autumn. We suggest that most shearwaters using this route are nonbreeders, possibly from both the New Zealand and Chilean populations. Many birds, probably breeders from both populations, likely use shorter routes to and from the North Pacific (ca. 28,000 to 29,000 km). Annual variation in the number of transequatorial migrants was positively correlated with a progressive, annual increase in sea-surface temperature, due to large-scale ocean warming in the eastern Pacific. A progressive increase in number of shearwaters migrating to the North Pacific mostly reflected increased migration from the Peru Current, consistent with a concurrent sharp decline of these birds in the California Current. These results indicate a distributional shift in feeding location during the nonbreeding period, from the eastern boundary currents to the central North Pacific, which has been exhibiting a cooling trend. 
10.1525/cond.2010.090037|To evaluate factors influencing a suburban bird community in coastal northern California, we examined the abundance, richness, and diversity of wintering birds at 75 locations within the city of Arcata. For each location we used aerial imagery to determine the proportions of vegetation and impervious surfaces within 75 m and the distances to various landscape features. Human activity was measured and used as a covariate in model selection. Total bird abundance, species richness, and diversity declined with the proportion of road surface at a site, while the abundance of non-native species increased with the cover of roads and structures. The proportions of shrub and tree cover at a site predicted total abundance and richness positively. The effect of trees on species diversity was increasingly positive in more urban areas. Several species, such as Steller's Jay (
10.2307/1370199|Sharp-shinned Hawks (Accipiter striatus) and Cooper's Hawks (A. cooperii) showed differential migration timing during autumn migration in New Mexico and Nevada. Age-sex classes passed through both sites in this order: juvenile females, juvenile males, adult females, and adult males. We compared the magnitude of differential migration timing in these two species. The number of days separating mean passage dates of age classes (juvenile and adult) was greater for Sharp-shinned Hawks than for Cooper's Hawks. The number of days separating the mean passage dates of sex classes was mostly similar between the two species. In the Manzano Mountains of New Mexico, however, adult male and female Sharp-shinned Hawks were more separated than adult male and female Cooper's Hawks. In Sharp-shinned and Cooper's Hawks, it seems likely that differences in rate of travel between males and females may best explain sex-specific differential migration timing and that foraging efficiency (i.e., hunting skill level) may best explain age-specific differential migration timing.
1369674| The prey-size selection, foraging behavior, and intake rate of overwintering Redshanks (Tringa totanus) were studied in a supratidal-intertidal system with high intertidal densities of shorebirds (100 birds ha
10.1525/cond.2012.110154|We examined daily activity patterns, flock-size variations, use of vertical space, and small-scale habitat selection of the New Caledonian Parakeet (
10.2307/1370193|During spring migration, thousands of shorebirds gather in Delaware Bay at the same time as horseshoe crabs (Limulus polyphemus) are spawning. During their stopover, the birds store enough fuel in the form of fat and muscle protein to complete their migration to the Canadian breeding grounds. We documented the changes in body mass of shorebirds migrating through Delaware Bay and determined how much of the shorebird diet during this period consisted of horseshoe crab eggs. Migrating shorebirds were captured, morphometric measurements taken, and gut samples collected by stomach flushing. Red Knots (Calidris canutus), Ruddy Turnstones (Arenaria interpres), Sanderlings (C. alba), and Semipalmated Sandpipers (C. pusilla) increased their body mass up to 70-80% while staging on Delaware Bay. Horseshoe crab egg membranes constituted the bulk of the gut contents for all species at all collection sites. Polychaete and oligochaete worms were found in substantial concentrations in gut samples collected from shorebirds in certain beaches. Sand and un-identified decomposed material were found in varying amounts in gut samples of all species and locations. Apparent declines in spawning horseshoe crab populations may adversely affect migratory shorebirds.
10.1525/cond.2012.110088|Three species of coastal sparrows (
10.2307/1367003|In an effort to estimate a critical concentration of dietary sulfur-containing amino acids (SAA) for molting birds, we measured nitrogen (N) and sulfur (S) balances before, during, and after postnuptial molt in five groups of White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) fed isocaloric and isonitrogenous (17.4 kJ/g and 13.5% protein) diets in which SAA concentration ranged from 0.33 to 0.78%. These SAA concentrations approximate those found in natural diets and, as well, bracket the SAA requirements of poultry. Birds from all dietary groups showed positive N and S balances through six temporally equal stages of molt and in the nonmolting periods. Nitrogen retention differed significantly among molt stages but not among dietary groups. The grand average net N retention during molt (total N retention minus basal N retention) was 623 mg/25-g bird. Sulfur retention differed significantly among stages and among dietary groups. However, because group differences occurred both during molt and in nonmolt, the net S retention during molt (total S retention minus basal S retention) did not differ significantly among dietary groups. The grand average net S retention during molt was 85.4 mg/25-g bird. These results indicate that molting White-crowned Sparrows are typically able to meet the protein and SAA demands of molt through their food (the critical dietary SAA concentrations being less than those likely to be found in natural diets), thus precluding the need to deplete tissue proteins.
1369828| Seasonal decline in clutch size is common in birds, but the proximate mechanisms for this phenomenon have not been elucidated. The most credible model to date posits that late-laying females lay fewer eggs due to a seasonal increase in the tendency to incubate during laying, which inhibits egg production. We tested this model with free-living and laboratory American Kestrels (Falco sparverius) by quantifying changes in clutch size and incubation tendency during laying over the course of the breeding phase. Consistent with the model, clutch size in free-living kestrels decreased while incubation increased with progress of the 74-day breeding phase. Inconsistent with the model, variation in incubation tendency during laying was not associated with clutch size in either the field or the laboratory. In the laboratory, incubation increased but clutch size did not decrease over the course of the 77-day breeding phase. In the laboratory, females that nested early in one breeding phase renested more quickly and nested in a second breeding phase more quickly than females nesting late in the first breeding phase. This indicates that timing of laying is, in part, a property of individual females, independent of environmental factors. Together, our findings suggest that both clutch size and timing of laying are inherent, correlated properties of particular females. Although incubation tendency may influence clutch size, other factors appear to override its influence. /// Aunque la disminucin estacional en el tamao de la nidada es comn entre las aves, los mecanismos proximales para este fenmeno no han sido elucidados. El modelo de mayor credibilidad propuesto hasta el momento sugiere que las hembras que ovipositan tarde ponen menos huevos debido a un aumento estacional en la tendencia a incubar durante la postura que inhibe la produccin de huevos. Pusimos a prueba este modelo con individuos de Falco sparverius en condiciones naturales y en cautiverio, cuantificando los cambios en el tamao de la nidada y la tendencia a incubar durante la postura a lo largo de la poca reproductiva. Tal como el modelo plantea, el tamao de la nidada en individuos silvestres de F. sparverius disminuy mientras que la incubacin aument a medida que transcurran los 74 das de la poca de reproduccin. Mientras tanto, en contraste con el modelo, la variacin en la tendencia a incubar durante la postura no estuvo asociada con el tamao de la nidada ni en el campo ni en el laboratorio. En el laboratorio, la incubacin aument pero el tamao de la nidada no disminuy en el transcurso de la poca reproductiva (77 das). En condiciones de laboratorio, las hembras que anidaron temprano en una fase reproductiva volvieron a anidar ms rpidamente en una segunda fase que las hembras que anidaron tarde en la primera. Esto indica que el tiempo en que se hace la postura es en parte una propiedad de cada hembra y es independiente de factores ambientales. En conjunto, nuestros hallazgos sugieren que tanto el tamao de la nidada como el momento de la postura son propiedades correlacionadas de cada hembra en particular. Aunque la tendencia a incubar podra influenciar el tamao de la nidada, otros factores parecen anular su influencia. 
10.2307/1369109| I studied the characteristics of 26 White-tailed Sea Eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla) nest trees and 24 nesting forests in Hokkaido, Japan. Nest trees were an average of 7.9 m taller and an average of 45.6 cm larger in dbh than the surrounding forest, and many of them were near the forest edge. Eagles preferred Glehn's Spruce (Picea glehnii) and Japanese Alder (Alnus japonica) as nest tree species, though not exclusively. Nests were an average of 2.8 m higher than the average height of surrounding trees, and all nests had canopy openings above them. Openings above nests in the forest interior were an average of about 110 wider than those above nests near forest edges, because the nests were built on emergent trees. Eagle nesting habitat in Hokkaido requires trees large enough to support the nest, and a surrounding structure which allows accessibility and good visibility. 
10.2307/1367339| Brown-chested Martins (Phaeoprogne tapera) at Guanare, Venezuela, have a clutch size of 4.0  0.2 (SE) eggs, smaller than that reported for the Purple Martin (Progne subis), a temperate species. The eggs are incubated for 62.4% of the daylight hours; incubation periods are longer at low ambient temperatures. Nestling Brown-chested Martins do not lose weight near fledging; the growth rate constant is 0.284. On a biomass basis, Brown-chested Martins bring more dragonflies to the nest than reported for Purple Martins; relatively more dragonflies are brought as the nestlings grow. Cool, wet, and cloudy weather reduces feeding activity and the rate at which food is gathered by the tropical martin, as has been reported for the temperate species. 
10.2307/1367838|Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) productivity surveys were conducted annually from 1972 through 1981 in Seymour Canal, southeast Alaska. The 90 km of coastline supported approximately 90 nests. During late June, the 29% productive nests contained 1.56 eggs or downy young per nest. Productivity dropped to 19% in 1979 and 1980 and 23% in 1981. Nest loss due to natural causes averaged 5% per year.
10.2307/1368612|Patterns of egg laying were recorded for 104 bird species by surveying the literature for experiments that involved removal or addition of conspecific eggs during laying. Although results were presented for all 104 species, data were considered sufficient to reliably determine laying type for only 46 species. Of the 46 species, 24 were determinate layers; they did not lay extra eggs in response to egg removal or did not curtail laying in response to egg addition. Twenty-two species were indeterminate layers. Three types of indeterminate laying were revealed: removal indeterminacy, in which birds responded to egg removal by laying extra eggs; addition indeterminacy, in which birds responded to egg addition by laying fewer than normal host eggs; and removal-and-addition indeterminacy, in which birds responded to egg removal by laying more eggs than normal and to egg addition by laying fewer eggs than normal. The frequency of indeterminacy increased with clutch size: none of the three species with single-egg clutches were indeterminate, 15 of the 32 species (47%) with average clutches of 2-8 eggs were indeterminate, and 7 of 11 species (64%) with average clutches of more than eight eggs were indeterminate. No differences were found in the frequency of laying types between birds with precocial and altricial young. The timing of egg removal and addition affected the experimental results; manipulations should be done early in laying in order to effectively evaluate laying pattern. Finally, I suggest a protocol for further experiments designed to examine laying type.
10.2307/1367250|We subjected Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger), nesting in six subcolonies within a tern colony, to either daily or weekly nest checks in order to study the effects of human activity on reproduction. Many prelaying adults left subcolonies that were disturbed daily and settled in relatively undisturbed subcolonies; some pairs in these areas deserted nests early in incubation. Nest density, late nesting, hatching success, and fledging success were inversely correlated with disturbance. In consequence of disturbance, a few chicks ate younger conspecifics. Low fences placed around groups of nests depressed fledging in areas disturbed weekly, but enhanced it in subcolonies disturbed daily.
10.1525/cond.2013.130006|We tested whether the expression of melanin-based plumage traits reflects their bearer's levels of circulating antioxidants by repeatedly injected molting juvenile male House Sparrows (
10.2307/1369099|We determined fat, protein, and mineral content of somatic tissue, and estimated amounts of these nutrients committed to eggs by Ruddy Ducks (Oxyura jamaicensis) nesting in southern Manitoba in 1988. Seasonal nutrient dynamics differed between breeding and nonbreeding females. Nonbreeders had less fat and protein reserves than did breeders early in the nesting season, but these then increased and subsequently declined, whereas nutrient reserves of breeders declined linearly with date from the outset of our study. Onset of breeding was related to a nutrient reserve threshold (early RFG [rapid follicle growth] ducks had 22.7 g more fat and 5.1 g more protein than did non-RFG ducks). Adults showed greater propensity to initiate breeding (73% of breeding population) than did yearlings (68% of nonbreeding population), and we relate this to greater fat and protein reserves of adults. Adult breeders had more fat and protein reserves than did yearlings at every stage in the breeding cycle but no age-related differences in use of fat, protein or mineral reserves for clutch formation were found. When controlling for date effects, fat reserves declined (b = -0.49) as fat was committed to eggs. Early nesters initiated and ended egg laying with significantly more fat compared to late nesters, although rate of fat use was not different. Protein and mineral reserves were used for clutch formation by early nesters (b = -0.24 and -0.08, respectively), but not by late nesters. Among females nearing end of laying, number of developing follicles was related to mineral, but not fat or protein reserves, indicating that mineral reserves were a proximate factor constraining clutch size. Our findings confirm that, for Ruddy Ducks, somatic tissues are important sources of nutrients for clutch formation, and that clutch size is directly related to mineral reserves. Of importance to lifetime reproduction, and thus fitness, is our finding that minimum levels of nutrient reserves appear critical for initiation of breeding by female Ruddy Ducks.
40072373|The Great-tailed Grackle (
40306189|A previous phylogeny of New World orioles (
10.2307/1370196|During experiments to lead cranes on migration behind motorized craft in the western United States, our cranes experienced 15 attacks (4 fatal) by Golden Eagles. We believe many more attacks would have occurred (and more would have been fatal) without human intervention. We recognize eagle predation as an important risk to cranes especially during migration.
10.1525/cond.2012.110097|We examined wetland selection by the Black Tern (
40306174|Understanding how genetic variation in the Tree Swallow (
10.2307/1367987|I studied secondary cavity-nesting birds in riparian habitat along the lower Colorado River, Arizona, to determine whether the birds were limited by availability of nest sites in relatively undisturbed habitat. Species differed in cavity use on the basis of size and time, and cavities were a limiting factor on only one of three study areas. However, birds were responsive to cavity manipulations. Numbers of breeders decreased after cavities were blocked on a plot with many cavities, while breeders increased on a nest-box plot where few natural cavities were available. Breeding numbers remained stable on an unmanipulated plot, despite increased European Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). Some cavity-related aggression occurred, but did not affect breeding numbers or success, because alternate nest sites were available.
10.2307/1367365|Aerial surveys of marine birds were conducted in the Gulf of Alaska from March through June 1977. The surveys provide synoptic information on the relative seasonal abundance of seabirds and their use of the continental shelf and slope and deep oceanic areas. Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis), Sooty and Short-tailed shearwaters (Puffinus griseus and P. tenuirostris), Forktailed Storm-Petrels (Oceanodroma furcata), sea ducks, Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla), murres (Uria spp.), and Tufted Puffins (Lunda cirrhata) were the most common of the 35 species observed in the Gulf. Most seabirds were found over the continental slope and oceanic waters in March. Densities, especially of shearwaters, increased as birds moved into waters over the continental shelf from April to June. Most species were associated with at least one other, and 11 statistically significant associations (P < 0.05) were found between the eight most common species. Tufted Puffins, Arctic Terns, and shearwaters were highly associated.
4123209| We investigated attributes of nests, aggressive interactions, and reproductive success in mixed and single species subcolonies of Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) and Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) on Appledore Island, Maine. Distances to the nearest neighboring nest were smaller for L. argentatus than L. marinus, with greatest distances between nests at edges of subcolonies in both species. More L. argentatus nests had natural screens (vegetation or rock >30 cm tall) adjacent to them than did L. marinus nests, but screen presence did not differ among nest positions within the colony. Clutch size did not differ between species; however, hatching success (number of chicks hatched per nest) was higher in L. argentatus than L. marinus. Fledging success (number of chicks fledged per nest) of L. marinus was greater at nests with heterospecific neighbors, whereas the opposite was true for L. argentatus. For both species, the frequency of aggressive interactions was lower at nests with L. argentatus neighbors. Overall, L. marinus nesting near L. argentatus experienced less aggression and greater reproductive success than those nesting among conspecifics, where intraspecific aggression was relatively high. L. argentatus nesting near L. marinus experienced more aggression and lower reproductive success than those nesting among conspecifics, where intraspecific aggression was relatively low. The costs and benefits of nesting in mixed species colonies may depend on the relative size and aggressiveness of the heterospecifics. Interactions with L. marinus in mixed species colonies may be contributing to the current declines of L. argentatus throughout New England. /// Investigamos los atributos de los nidos, interacciones agresivas y el xito reproductivo en subcolonias mixtas y de una sola especie en Larus marinus y L. argentatus en la Isla Appledore, Maine. Las distancias al nido vecino ms cercano fueron menores para L. argentatus que para L. marinus, y las distancias ms grandes entre los nidos estuvieron localizadas a las orillas de las subcolonias. Un mayor nmero de nidos de L. argentatus tuvieron cobertura natural (vegetatin o roca de ms de 30 cm de altura) junto a ellos comparado con nidos de L. marinus; sin embargo, la presencia de cobertura no fue diferente entre las distintas posiciones de los nidos dentro de la colonia. El tamao de la nidada no fue diferente entre las especies, pero el xito de eclosin (nmero de polluelos que eclosionaron por nido) fue mayor en L. argentatus que en L. marinus. El xito de emplumamiento (nmero de volantones por nido) de L. marinus fue mayor en nidos que tuvieron vecinos heteroespecficos, mientras que lo opuesto sucedi para L. argentatus. Para ambas especies, la frecuencia de interacciones agresivas fue menor en nidos que tuvieron individuos de L. argentatus como vecinos. En general, los individuos de L. marinus que anidaron cerca de L. argentatus experimentaron una menor agresin y un mayor xito reproductivo que los individuos que anidaron entre nidos de coespecficos, en donde las agresiones intraespecficas fueron relativamente altas. Los individuos de L. argentatus que anidaron cerca de L. marinus experimentaron una mayor agresin y un menor xito reproductivo que los que anidaron cerca de coespecficos, en donde las agresiones intraespecficas fueron relativamente menores. Los costos y beneficios de anidar en colonias mixtas pueden depender del tamao relativo y la agresividad de los individuos heteroespecficos. Las interacciones con L. marinus en colonias mixtas puede estar contribuyendo a la actual disminucin de L. argentatus a travs de Nueva Inglaterra. 
10.2307/1368447| The oxygen limitation hypothesis states that during the latter stages of incubation O<sub>2</sub> availability limits growth and metabolism of embryos of precocial birds. The hypothesis has received support when tested on chicken embryos (Gallus gallus); we have attempted to extend the hypothesis to another precocial species, the Northern Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus). Quail embryos rapidly increased in mass until late in the incubation period when the growth rate declined. This pattern is typical of embryos of other similar-sized precocial birds. Data for the metabolic rate of quail embryos incubated in air (normoxia, 21% O<sub>2</sub> paralleled data for embryo mass with the preIP V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> averaging 4.73  0.81 ml/hr. To test whether elevated levels of O<sub>2</sub> affected the growth rate of quail embryos, we switched the gas that eggs were receiving from normoxic to hyperoxic (60% O) on day 11. Wet mass of embryos from hyperoxic eggs did not differ from that of control embryos on days 12, 14, 16, 18, and 20 of incubation. The metabolic rate of embryos incubated under hyperoxic conditions for 24 hr (days 14-15) or for 6 days (days 14-20) did not vary from controls. Moreover, the metabolic rate of normoxic eggs (days 17 and 18) did not increase when we exposed the air cell to ambient air. Thus we were unable to support the oxygen limitation hypothesis when tested on Northern Bobwhite embryos. 
10.2307/1368803| The Australian Brush-turkey, Alectura lathami, constructs incubation mounds of decomposing forest litter in which many large eggs are incubated by microbial heat generation. On Kangaroo Island, the average mound is about 12.7 m
10.2307/1368246|We estimated the distribution and density of California Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) occurring on Mt. San Jacinto during 1988 and 1989 and on Palomar Mountain during 1988, southern California. Spotted Owls on Mt. San Jacinto were well distributed above 1,000 m in forested habitats. In contrast, owl distribution appeared to be affected by recent fires on Palomar Mountain. Densities on Mt. San Jacinto were estimated to be 0.16 owls/km
10.2307/1368526|We investigated the racial identity, distribution, and abundance of Water Pipits (Anthus spinoletta) breeding in the mountains of California. This common nesting species of alpine tundra was not known to breed in California until the 1970s; a review of historical evidence suggests recent colonization. Mensural and plumage comparisons show California populations to be A. s. alticola, the breeding race of the Rocky Mountains. This is of biogeographical interest, because the abundant wintering and migratory pipit of California is A. s. pacificus, while alticola normally occurs hundreds of miles to the east. Water Pipits currently nest in mesic alpine vegetation throughout much of the southern and central Sierra Nevada. Breeding densities are highest and most uniform in the southernmost part of this range. The only known breeding population in California outside of the Sierra Nevada occurs on San Gorgonio Mountain in southern California. We hypothesize that the previous absence or rarity of breeding Water Pipits in the Sierra Nevada may be attributable to the most recent paleoclimatic xerothermic period, the Hypsithermal (ca. 5,000 to 2,900 years BP), which impoverished many alpine biotas of arctic-old cordilleran affinity. Climate and habitat differences may prevent pacificus from breeding in California, and geographic barriers may have hindered colonization by alticola. The occurrence and timing of the present colonization may be fortuitous. Alternatively, it is possible that prior colonization of Great Basin ranges by alticola facilitated eventual dispersal to the Sierra Nevada.
10.2307/1369212|Life history theory predicts a decrease in survival with increased reproductive effort of individuals. This relationship, however, is highly variable among and within species. I studied the nesting success and survival of adult female Emperor Geese during 1982-1986 and found no direct evidence that differential reproductive effort as measured by the number of eggs laid or hatching success had a significant negative effect on survival to the next breeding season. Incubated clutch size, hatched clutch size, number of parasitic eggs, nest initiation date, hatch date, and mass at hatch were not related to subsequent survival. Of the factors I examined, only an attempt to nest the previous season was related to survival of a female. I suggest that the higher probability of survival among non-nesting adult female Emperor Geese was primarily related to hunting pressure on the nesting area between spring and fall migration. The probability of survival was increased for females with larger clutches, suggesting a positive relationship between brood size and survival.
4500976|We measured the fractionation of stable nitrogen (
1370532| The recent paper by Howell et al. (2003) recognizes that birds have evolved special plumages before entering the adult plumage cycle that should, therefore, be named differently in the terminology introduced by Humphrey and Parkes (1959) for plumages and molts (the H-P system). We agree with the principle of this suggestion, but we nevertheless suggest that birds take different lengths of time and different numbers of molts to enter the adult molt cycle and to acquire the adult plumage. We suggest that this variation should not be concealed by the assumption of an artificial first cycle of the same length as subsequent cycles, but should be reflected in the terminology of plumages and molts. We also suggest a distinction between entering the adult molt cycle and entering the adult plumage cycle. A main problem of the H-P system and Howell et al.'s modification is the claim that it is based on the concept of homology. In our opinion, there are no firm and convincing criteria on which to base a plausible phylogeny of plumages and molts. We would prefer to call Howell et al.'s modified H-P system a "terminology" for molts and plumages without the claim to determine homologies. We suggest that plumages or molts having the same Howell et al. term should be called "comparable," rather than homologous. Moreover, it is debatable whether the phylogeny of molt is always the same as the phylogeny of plumages, as the H-P system claims by linking one molt to one plumage. We believe that the H-P system and Howell et al.'s modification of it remains too rigid to adequately reflect the evolution of molts and plumages. /// El artculo reciente de Howell et al. (2003) reconoce que las aves han desarrollado a travs de la evolucin plumajes especiales que ocurren antes del ciclo del plumaje adulto y que deberan, por lo tanto, tener un nombre diferente en la terminologa introducida por Humphrey y Parkes (1959) para los plumajes y las mudas (el sistema H-P). Nosotros estamos de acuerdo con el principio de esta sugerencia, pero sin embargo sugerimos que las aves toman diferentes perodos de tiempo y diferentes nmeros de mudas para entrar al ciclo de muda adulto y para adquirir el plumaje adulto. Sugerimos que esta variacin no debera ser enmascarada por la suposicin de un primer ciclo artificial de la misma longitud de los ciclos subsecuentes, sino que debera reflejarse en la terminologa de plumajes y mudas. Tambin sugerimos una distincin entre entrar al ciclo de muda adulto y entrar al ciclo de plumaje adulto. Un problema principal del sistema H-P y de la modificacin de Howell et al. es la idea de que estn basados en el concepto de homologa. Nuestra opinin es que no existen criterios firmes y convincentes sobre los cuales basar una filogenia plausible de los plumajes y las mudas. Preferiramos tratar al sistema H-P modificado por Howell et al. como una "terminologa" para mudas y plumajes, sin pretender determinar homologas. Sugerimos que los plumajes o las mudas que tienen el mismo trmino en el sistema de Howell et al. deberan llamarse "comparables" en lugar de homlogos. Ms an, es debatible si la filogenia de la muda es siempre igual a la filogenia de los plumajes, como el sistema H-P asevera al conectar una muda con un plumaje. Creemos que el sistema H-P y la modificacin de Howell et al. son todava demasiado rgidos para reflejar adecuadamente la evolucin de la muda y los plumajes. 
10.2307/1368243|Banded Neothraupis fasciata were found in both unispecific groups and mixed-species flocks throughout the year, in cerrado (savanna) near Brasilia, Brazil. Groups with a mean of 3.0 individuals defended permanent territories. Territory size seemed to approach home-range size which was estimated for one group as being 4.3 ha. Some banded nestlings remained with their parents until the onset of the first reproductive season after birth. Pairs were occasionally assisted by helpers, which were either males or females, apparently offspring from prior years. Helpers had multiple roles, such as assisting in feeding nestlings, assisting in territorial defense, and acting as sentinels, which may increase protection against predation.
10.2307/1368238|We identified major arthropod taxa in the feces of nestling Winter Wrens (Troglodytes troglodytes) and quantified their number, size, and biomass. These data were compared with samples of arthropods obtained from habitats and microhabitats that were typical of breeding territories. Larval Lepidoptera on shrubs in the clearcut were more numerous and had a higher biomass than those on shrubs in forested areas. Total arthropod biomass, the biomass of Coleoptera, and numbers of Araneae on Vaccinium shrubs were higher in the forest. On the ground, numbers and biomass of most taxa were higher in the clearcut than in the forest. Coleoptera and Araneae were fed to nestlings in high proportions relative to their proportionate numbers and biomass in the environmental samples.
4122527| The coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge hosts seven species of migratory shorebirds listed as highly imperiled or high priority by the U.S. Shorebird Conservation Plan and five species listed as Birds of Conservation Concern by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. During the first comprehensive shorebird survey of the 674 000 ha "1002 Area" on the coastal plain, we recorded 14 species of breeding shorebirds at 197 rapidly surveyed plots during June 2002 and 2004. We also estimated detection ratios with a double counting technique, using data collected at 37 intensively studied plots located on the North Slope of Alaska and northern Canada. We stratified the study area by major habitat types, including wetlands, moist areas, uplands, and riparian areas, using previously classified Landsat imagery. We developed population estimates with confidence limits by species, and estimated the total number of shorebirds in the study area to be 230 000 (95% CI: 104 000-363 000), which exceeds the biological criterion for classification as both a Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network Site of International Importance (100 000 birds) and a Ramsar Wetland of International Importance (20 000 birds), even when conservatively estimated. Species richness and the density of many species were highest in wetland or riparian habitats, which are clustered along the coast. /// En el llano costero del Refugio Nacional rtico de vida silvestre se encuentran siete especies de aves playeras migratorias identificadas como en peligro o de alta prioridad por el Plan de Conservacin de Aves Playeras de Estados Unidos, y cinco especies identificadas como aves con prioridad de conservacin por el Servicio de Pesca y Fauna de los Estados Unidos. Durante el primer inventario completo de aves playeras en las 674 000 ha del "rea 1002" del llano costero, se registraron 14 especies en reproductin en 197 cuadrantes muestreados durante junio de 2002 y 2004. Tambin se estimaron las tasas de deteccin con una tcnica de doble muestreo de manera intensiva en 37 cuadrantes ubicados en Ladera Norte de Alaska y norte de Canad. Se clasific el rea de estudio en categoras correspondientes a los tipos de hbitat ms importantes, incluyendo humedales, reas hmedas, tierras altas y reas ribereas, con base a imgenes Landsat previamente clasificadas. Para cada especie se estim el tamao de la poblacin con lmites de confianza. El nmero estimado total de aves playeras para el rea de estudio fue de 230 000 (95% IC: 104 000-363 000), el cual excede los criterios biolgicos para la clasificacin como un sitio de Importancia Internacional de la Red Hemisfrica de Reservas para Aves Playeras (100 000 aves) y como un humedal de Importancia Internacional para Ramsar (20 000 aves), incluso utilizando la estimacin ms conservadora. La riqueza de especies y la densidad de varias especies fueron altas en humedales o hbitats ribereos, los cuales presentan una distribucin conglomerada a lo largo de la costa. 
10.2307/1369260|Male Barn Swallows (Hirundo rustica) help their mates to incubate in North America but not in Europe. In this study, conducted at four colonies in southeastern Canada, males contributed an average of 9% of the total amount of incubation during daylight hours. The total percent of time that eggs were incubated (nest attentiveness) by both sexes declined through the day, largely due to a response to increasing temperature. The nest attentiveness of both males and females was negatively correlated with nest temperature (i.e., air temperature near the nest) but not consistently with weather. In general a male seemed to incubate more when his help was needed--early in the day when the female had to recover energy lost during nighttime incubation and late in the incubation period when females should have been most stressed energetically. We found no evidence that male nest attentiveness was affected by their expected opportunity to obtain extra-pair copulations--neither differences in male attractiveness due to tail-length manipulation (shortening or elongation) nor changes in the operational sex ratio affected the male's relative share of incubation duties. Using DNA fingerprinting, we also found that the male contribution was not affected by his paternity in the brood. Since colony size and the mating system of this species appear to be similar in both North America and Europe, the intensity of sexual selection should not differ substantially between these populations. Instead we suggest that nest temperature or feeding conditions are the most likely factors influencing the differences in male incubation behavior between European and North American populations.
10.2307/1370135|California Gnatcatcher (Polioptila californica californica) nests, from 1992-1995 at five sites in western Riverside County, California, were examined to determine the effects of Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater obscurus) nest parasitism and cowbird trapping on nest fates. Before cowbird trapping, nest parasitism was 31.5% over the entire breeding season and 45.7% during the period when cowbirds were active. Nest parasitism appeared to decrease gnatcatcher nest success by increasing nest abandonment. However, nests were lost to depredation versus parasitism at a 3:1 ratio. Gnatcatcher eggs were significantly correlated with cowbird eggs beginning the week of 5 May in 1992 and 1993, indicating the onset of parasitism pressure within a breeding season. Considering nests initiated after 5 May, nest parasitism was significantly reduced from 45.7% before cowbird trapping to 9.8% after cowbird trapping, and nest success increased significantly from 11.2% before cowbird trapping to 21.7% after cowbird trapping. Considering nest fates regardless of initiation date, there were no significant differences between no-trap and trap periods. Comparisons of no-trap versus trap nest fates before 5 May indicated that nest abandonment increased significantly from 3.3% for the no-trap period to 28.7% during the trapping period. At the same time, nest success decreased significantly from 35.0% during the no-trap period to 15.7% during the trap period. Gains in nest success from decreased nest parasitism were negated by increased nest abandonment before cowbirds were active.
10.2307/1368564|Not all forest bird species breeding on Redwood Mountain, Tulare County, California in the 1930s are still there in the 1980s. Over the 50 years virgin giant sequoia forest of the saddle and east slope (within Kings Canyon National Park) remains unchanged but has lost the Olive-sided Flycatcher (Contopus borealis). The mixture of old and second-growth sequoias of Whitaker's Forest, where pines and undergrowth were removed and snags eliminated, is missing the Mountain Quail (Oreortyx pictus), Flammulated Owl (Otus flammeolus), Northern Pygmy-Owl (Glaucidium gnoma), Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis), Hairy Woodpecker (Picoides villosus), and Olive-sided Flycatcher. Though unchanged today, the riparian alders of Eshom Creek on the west slope have lost Swainson's Thrush (Catharus ustulatus). Drastic logging by Sequoia National Forest has driven all of the above from the west slope ponderosa pine forest that surrounds Whitaker's Forest. New birds established at Whitaker's Forest by 1986 are the Common Raven (Corvus corax), House Wren (Troglodytes aedon), and Lincoln's Sparrow (Melospiza lincolnii). Intrusion of Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) has begun without yet affecting two abundant species of vireos. The Pileated Woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) is reduced; the Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes) has greatly increased. I attempt to explain avifaunal changes by comparing habitats over the 50-year interval. Disappearance of the flycatcher and thrush from unchanged, prime habitat must be caused by destruction of corresponding forests in Central America, where these birds maintain their winter territories.
10.2307/1367070|The Chukar (Alectoris chukar) and the Sand Partridge (Ammoperdix heyi) are permanent residents of the Negev desert, Israel. They are sympatric between the 200 and 90 mm isohyets, with only Sand Partridges occurring in more arid areas. During the dry season, we measured total body water volume (TBW; as tritiated water space) and total water turnover rate, and estimated dry matter intake and components of water turnover in free-living birds of both species. Mean body mass (m<sub>b</sub>) of 40 Chukars was 460.8 g and of 42 Sand Partridges was 176.6 g. TBW, as a percentage of m<sub>b</sub>, was lower in Chukars than in Sand Partridges (67.4% vs. 69.8%; P < 0.05). Mean water turnover was 44.1 ml/day for Chukars (n = 29), and 20.8 ml/day for Sand Partridges (n = 39). The mass-specific water turnover rate was higher in Sand Partridges than in Chukars (122.5 ml kg<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> vs. 100.6 ml kg<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>; P < 0.05). However, when compared allometrically, per kg<sup>0.75</sup>, water turnover rates were similar (81.7 ml kg<sup>-0.75</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> for Chukars vs. 78.5 ml kg<sup>-0.75</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> for Sand Partridges). Assuming a diet of seeds, we calculated that drinking water amounted to about 70% of water turnover in both Chukars and Sand Partridges and we concluded that both species must drink water when only dry forage is available.
1370340| Age-related differences in stopover ecology of migrant songbirds are poorly understood. We compared body mass, fat scores, and rates of mass gain of adults and immatures of 52 species of birds during autumn migration stopover at Long Point, Ontario, Canada, on the north shore of Lake Erie. Mean body mass of adults was greater than that of immatures in the majority of species with a detectable difference, but the average difference across species was only 1%. Fat scores were also higher for adults in many species, suggesting that mass differences were due to differences in condition rather than body size. Mean rate of mass gain, estimated from changes in body mass of first captures over the course of the day, did not differ significantly between adults and immatures of most species. However, the power to detect differences was low. Averaged across species (n = 117 903 birds), the estimated rate of mass gain for adults was 10% higher than that for immatures, but with 95% confidence limits ranging from 12% lower to 32% higher. The observed differences in body mass could be produced by a small difference in rate of mass gain. Small differences in body mass and rate of mass gain between immatures and adults could indicate that young passerines rapidly develop similar foraging skills to those of adults, or that young birds are not particularly disadvantaged at Long Point either because of good food supply, or because there is little need to accumulate large amounts of fat in the early stages of migration. /// La ecologa de las aves canoras migratorias de diferentes edades en sus sitios de descanso es poco conocida. Comparamos la masa corporal, los niveles de grasa y la tasa de aumento de masa de adultos e inmaduros de 52 especies de aves durante escalas migratorias otoales en la costa norte del Lago Erie, Long Point, Ontario, Canad. La masa corporal de los adultos fue superior a la de los inmaduros en la mayora de las especies, pero en promedio esta diferencia fue slo del 1% para todas las especies. Los niveles de grasa tambin fueron mayores en adultos de muchas especies, lo que sugiere que las diferencias en masa se debieron a diferencias en la condicin fsica y no al tamao corporal de las aves. La tasa media de aumento de masa, estimada a partir de cambios en la masa corporal de las primeras capturas en el curso del da, no difiri significativamente entre adultos e inmaduros para la mayora de las especies, pero el poder de la prueba estadstica para detectar diferencias fue bajo. Promediada para todas las especies (n = 117 903 aves), la tasa estimada de aumento de masa para los adultos fue superior en un 10% a la de los inmaduros, pero con intervalos de confianza del 95% fluctuando entre un mnimo de 12% y 32%. Las diferencias observadas en masa corporal pudieron ser producidas por una pequea diferencia en las tasas de aumento de masa. Las pequeas diferencias en la masa corporal y la tasa de aumento de masa entre inmaduros y adultos podran indicar que las aves jvenes desarrollan habilidades de forrajeo similares a las de los adultos rpidamente o que las aves jvenes no estn particularmente en desventaja en Long Point ya sea porque el alimento es abundante o porque no es necesario acumular grandes cantidades de grasa en las primeras etapas de la migracin. 
10.2307/1368488|We studied bird visits to the flowers of Agave salmiana at two sites on the Mexican Plateau. At one site the main visitors were four species of perching birds (Northern Flicker, Colaptes auratus; Curve-billed Thrasher, Toxostoma curvirostre; Scott's Oriole, Icterus parisorum; and Northern Oriole, Icterus galbula abeillei) and one hummingbird, the Magnificent Hummingbird (Eugenes fulgens). At a second site, plants were visited by five species of hummingbirds (E. fulgens; White-eared Hummingbird, Hylocharis leucotis; Berylline Hummingbird, Amazilia beryllina; Violet-crowned Hummingbird, Amazilia violiceps; and Blue-throated Hummingbird, Lampornis clemenciae), and the Cinnamon-bellied Flower-piercer, Diglossa baritula. At both sites, male E. fulgens defended inflorescences against other hummingbirds but not against perching birds. At one site, E. fulgens males defended inflorescences only in places with sparse vegetation; inflorescences located in areas with dense vegetation were visited by highly mobile nonterritorial hummingbirds. At both sites the numbers of birds in each inflorescence were a linear function of number of nectar-producing flowers. Arrival rates were also linearly related to flower numbers. For inflorescences with equal numbers of flowers, arrival rates were higher for hummingbirds than for perching birds. This resulted from the shorter residence times of the hummingbirds in the inflorescences. Different species of birds tended to use different parts of inflorescences.
10.2307/1370416| We estimated survival of Cassin's Auklet (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) and Rhinoceros Auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata) from recapture rates during 1994-1997. For both species, a two "age"-class model provided the best fit. Estimates of local adult survival were significantly lower for Cassin's Auklet (0.672  0.047) than for Rhinoceros Auklet (0.829  0.095). Our estimate of survival appears lower than that required for the maintenance of a stable population of Cassin's Auklets. The available information indicates that a low survival rate and a declining population at Triangle Island are plausible, particularly given the recent large scale oceanographic changes which have occurred in the North Pacific Ocean. Nevertheless, additional mark-recapture data and indexes of population size are required to rigorously demonstrate population declines at the world's largest Cassin's Auklet colony. 
10.2307/1366883|In an expanding population of Brown Jays (Cyanocorax morio) in the Cordillera de Tilaran of Costa Rica, flocks exhibit a broad range of breeding behavior involving the construction of one or more nests by two or more birds, egg-laying, incubation and brooding at one nest by one or more females, and nestling care by breeding and non-breeding birds. The form that breeding behavior takes may be related to the ages of flock members. Flocks vary considerably in age, and breeding success is correlated with the number of older birds. The variation in Brown Jay breeding behavior may provide some insight into the evolution of social organization in New World corvids.
1370642| Agonistic interactions of nesting and nonbreeding Blue-and-yellow Macaws (Ara ararauna) were observed in the Manu Biosphere Reserve, Peru, during the nestling phase of the nest cycle in 1988 and 1989. Three nesting pairs of macaws were identified by facial line and tail patterns, and agonistic behavior was categorized as high-intensity or low-intensity interactions. Nesting pairs associated strongly with cavities and perch trees within the nest area, and frequently chased nonbreeding conspecifics from an area of up to 100 m from the nest. In one case, loss of control of the nest cavity and perch trees by a lone nesting macaw to a nonbreeding pair led to infanticide and abandonment of the nest. Agonistic interactions were predominantly intraspecific, and 79% of agonistic interactions by nesting macaws were directed at nonbreeding conspecifics. The frequency of agonistic interactions increased significantly with day of the nesting cycle, being greatest toward the end of the nestling period. Nonbreeding macaws spent significantly more time in trees at the edge of the nest area than in trees within the nest area, and significantly less time within the nest area when nesting pairs were present than when absent. In both years, only 36% of the available cavities within the nest area were utilized by Blue-and-yellow Macaws, though some cavities were utilized by smaller macaw species. Intraspecific interference competition of nesting macaws may exclude potential breeders from investigating cavities, effectively limiting availability where nest sites are clumped in distribution. /// Se llevaron a cabo observaciones de las interacciones agonsticas entre parejas reproductivas y no reproductivas de la guacamaya Ara ararauna en la Reserva de la Biosfera de Manu en Per, durante la fase de crianza de los pollos en 1988 y 1989. Se identificaron tres parejas de guacamayas por medio del patrn de lneas en su rostro y por la forma de desgaste de la cola, y el comportamiento agonstico fue caracterizado como interacciones de alta y de baja intensidad. Las parejas nidificantes presentaron una fuerte asociacin con las cavidades y los rboles de percha dentro del rea de anidacin, y frecuentemente persiguieron a individuos coespecficos no reproductivos hasta 100 m fuera del nido. En un caso, una guacamaya reproductiva solitaria perdi posesin de su nido y del rbol de percha frente a una pareja no reproductiva, resultando en el infanticidio de una cra por la pareja no reproductiva, y en el abandono del nido. Las interacciones agonsticas fueron predominantemente de tipo intraespecfico, con el 79% de las interacciones agonsticas por parte de las parejas nidificantes dirigidas a coespecficos no reproductivos. La frecuencia de las interacciones agonsticas increment significativamente con el da del ciclo de anidacin, siendo mayor hacia finales del periodo de crianza de los pollos. Las guacamayas no reproductivas pasaron significativamente ms tiempo en los rboles alrededor del rea de anidacin comparando que en los rboles dentro del rea de anidacin, y permanecieron significativamente menos tiempo dentro del rea de anidacin cuando las parejas reproductivas estaban presentes que cuando estaban ausentes. En 1998 y 1999, slo el 36% de las cavidades disponibles fueron utilizadas por A. ararauna, aunque algunas fueron utilizadas por otras especies de guacamayas ms pequeas. La interferencia por competencia intraespecfica de las guacamayas reproductivas podra excluir a reproductores potenciales de las cavidades, limitando as la disponibilidad de cavidades en reas en donde los sitios de anidacin se encuentran agrupados. 
10.1525/cond.2011.090200|Documenting how different regions across a species' breeding and nonbreeding range are linked via migratory movements is the first step in understanding how events in one region can influence events in others and is critical to identifying conservation threats throughout a migratory animal's annual cycle. We combined two studies that evaluated migratory connectivity in the Willow Flycatcher (
10.2307/1368225|As governments impose increasingly stringent regulations on the collection of bird specimens and as man alters ever greater areas of habitat with the loss of many of their contained species, museum specimens increase immeasurably in importance. Yet at present, museum collections do not contain an adequate representation of the world's avifauna and, unfortunately, are not likely to do so. Thus, it is imperative that data associated with specimens that are obtained be as complete as possible. To this end, we describe categories of information with wide application to many types of studies, outline character states, and recommend standard forms of data notation. We recognize that under certain circumstances, it may be appropriate to record more limited data. However, we encourage at least those engaged in general collecting to record as many of these standard data as possible.
10.2307/1368067|In this study, I documented a previously unknown, downslope, fall migration in 10 adult Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis) in the central Sierra Nevada, California. The owls began to migrate in mid-October and all had migrated by mid-November. They moved an average of 31 km to the southwest and dropped an average of 754 m in elevation. This migratory movement enabled the owls to establish disjunct winter home ranges below the level of heavy and persistent snow. This seasonal movement complicates the task faced by land management agencies attempting to manage a viable population.
10.2307/1369950|We studied interactions among Blue Jays (Cyanocitta cristata) visiting a feeder in south-central Florida over a 4-year period to examine the influence of sex, time of year, and body size on dominance and aggression, describe changes in dominance among individuals over time, and test for the presence of linear dominance hierarchies. Males dominated females throughout the annual cycle, and in all 24 of the male-female significant dyads. We cannot reject the hypothesis that male dominance over females results from the larger body size of males. We infer that males also were more aggressive than females because they were involved in more interactions than expected by chance. Females became more, and males became less, aggressive immediately prior to the breeding season, but fluctuations in aggression did not lead to shifts in intersexual dominance. Dominance relationships among a few high-ranking males were intransitive and changed over time. Dominance hierarchies, characterized by reversals, circular triads, and unknown relationships, were not linear. Whereas linear hierarchies have been shown to exist in New World jays that live in small, stable social groups, we suspect the variable constituency and instability of flocks precludes the emergence of strictly linear hierarchies in the genus Cyanocitta.
40072416|Predation is a major cause of nest failure for songbirds, yet information is lacking on the relative importance of predator species in different landscapes. We identified nest predators of Golden-cheeked Warblers (
10.2307/1368346|Breeding success of 116 African Hawk-Eagle, Hieraaetus spilogaster, pairs nesting on basalt (4,724 km<sup>2</sup>-63 pairs) and kalahari sand (9,876 km<sup>2</sup>-53 pairs) was monitored from 1973 to 1984 in Hwange National Park, Zimbabwe. Nest-tree choice on both biomes was determined by the most abundant large trees; flat-crowned thorn trees on basalt and round-crowned rough barked trees on sand. Mean internest distances between biomes were significantly different (4.74 km [basalt], 8.65 km [kalahari sand]). Most clutches were laid in May and June and more one-egg clutches were recorded on sand. Breeding success, laying dates, and clutch size were all affected by rainfall. Greater success, early laying, and large clutch sizes were recorded during the period of higher rainfall, 1973 to 1976 (mean annual rainfall 783 mm) as compared to 1979 to 1984 (mean annual rainfall 601 mm). More breeding attempts took place in open woodland than closed woodland, but there was no difference in the number of chicks produced in both areas.
90008050|Freed and Cann (2013) criticized our use of linear models to assess trends in the status of Hawaiian forest birds through time (Camp et al. 2009a, 2009b, 2010) by questioning our sampling scheme, whether we met model assumptions, and whether we ignored short-term changes in the population time series. In the present paper, we address these concerns and reiterate that our results do not support the position of Freed and Cann (2013) that the forest birds in the Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) are declining, or that the federally listed endangered birds are showing signs of imminent collapse. On the contrary, our data indicate that the 21-year long-term trends for native birds in Hakalau Forest NWR are stable to increasing, especially in areas that have received active management.
1370732| San Pablo Bay, in northern San Francisco Bay, California, is an important wintering area for Greater (Aythya marila) and Lesser Scaup (A. affinis). We investigated variation in foraging behavior of scaup among five sites in San Pablo Bay, and whether such variation was related to densities of their main potential prey, the clams Potamocorbula amurensis and Macoma balthica. Time-activity budgets showed that scaup spent most of their time sleeping at some sites, and both sleeping and feeding at other sites, with females feeding more than males. In the first half of the observation period (12 January-5 February 2000), percent time spent feeding increased with increasing density of P. amurensis, but decreased with increasing density of M. balthica (diet studies have shown that scaup ate mostly P. amurensis and little or no M. balthica). Densities of M. balthica stayed about the same between fall and spring benthic samples, while densities of P. amurensis declined dramatically at most sites. In the second half of the observation period (7 February-3 March 2000), percent time feeding was no longer strongly related to P. amurensis densities, and dive durations increased by 14%. These changes probably reflected declines of P. amurensis, perhaps as affected by scaup predation. The large area of potential feeding habitat, and alternative prey elsewhere in the estuary, might have resulted in the low correlations between scaup behavior and prey densities in San Pablo Bay. These low correlations made it difficult to identify specific areas of prey concentrations important to scaup. /// La Baha de San Pablo, al norte de la Baha de San Francisco, California, es un rea invernal importante para Aythya marila y A. affinis. Investigamos variaciones en el comportamiento de forrajeo de ambos patos entre cinco sitios en la Baha de San Pablo, y analizamos si tales variaciones se relacionaron con las densidades de sus principales presas potenciales, las almejas Potamocorbula amurensis y Macoma balthica. Presupuestos de asignacin de tiempo mostraron que ambas especies de patos pasaron la mayora del tiempo durmiendo en ciertos sitios, tanto durmiendo como forrajeando en otros sitios, y que las hembras forrajearon ms que los machos. Durante la primera mitad del perodo de observacin (12 de enero-5 de febrero de 2000), el porcentaje del tiempo invertido forrajeando aument al aumentar la densidad de P. amurensis, pero disminuy al aumentar la densidad de M. balthica. Otros estudios han encontrado que los patos se alimentan principalmente de P. amurensis y poco o nada de M. balthica. Las densidades de M. balthica en las muestras bentnicas fueron casi iguales entre el otoo y la primavera, pero las densidades de P. amurensis declinaron dramticamente en la mayora de los sitios. En la segunda mitad del perodo (7 febrero-3 marzo de 2000), el porcentaje de tiempo forrajeando no se relacion fuertemente con las densidades de P. amurensis, y la duracin de las inmersiones aument en un 14%. Estos cambios probablemente reflejaron la disminucin de P. amurensis, quizs causada por depredacin por patos. Las bajas correlaciones entre la conducta de los patos y las densidades de presas pudieron haber sido el resultado de grandes reas potenciales de forrajeo y de la presencia de presas alternativas en otros lugares del estuario. Estas bajas correlaciones hicieron difcil identificar reas especficas con concentraciones importantes de presas para los patos. 
1369818| A newly modified, bird-borne data-logger was used to investigate the flight activity and diving behavior of foraging Razorbills (Alca torda) breeding at Latrabjarg, northwest Iceland. The recorders allowed us to determine with high time-resolution all relevant movements in 47 complete foraging trips of 29 different Razorbills during two successive breeding seasons, 1997 and 1998. In 1998, direction recorders equipped with a compass recorded 19 foraging routes of 10 different Razorbills. The trips consisted of a number of flights interrupted by short series of diving bouts by which the birds seemingly explored areas for prey availability. Foraging occurred at sites where Razorbills stopped, dived, and rested for a long time before returning to the nest by a single flight or a sequence of a few flights. The majority of dive profiles (n = 17 095 dives) consisted of nonstop downward and upward movements to depths rarely greater than 35 m, and never exceeding 41 m. There was considerable diurnal variation in foraging behavior, expressed by more frequent and shallower dives around midnight. The Razorbill's diving pattern turns out to be very different from that reported for Thick-billed Murres (Uria lomvia) breeding in the same colony. Considerable differences in duration of trips, average number of dives, and time allocation were observed between the two breeding seasons, suggesting differences in foraging conditions for the birds. /// Un archivador de datos recientemente modificado que se acopla a las aves fue utilizado para investigar la actividad de vuelo y el comportamiento de buceo de individuos reproductivos de Alca torda en Latrabjarg, noroeste de Islandia. Los equipos nos permitieron determinar con una alta resolucin de tiempo todos los movimientos relevantes en 47 viajes de forrajeo de 29 individuos diferentes durante dos temporadas reproductivas sucesivas (1997 y 1998). En 1998, equipos registradores de direccin equipados con una brjula, registraron 19 rutas de forrajeo de 10 individuos diferentes. Los viajes consistieron en un nmero de vuelos interrumpidos por pequeas series de sesiones de buceo por medio de las cuales las aves aparentemente investigaban la disponibilidad de presas en distintas reas. El forrajeo tuvo lugar en sitios donde las aves se detuvieron, bucearon y descansaron por un perodo prolongado antes de regresar al nido en un solo vuelo o en una secuencia de pocos vuelos. La mayora de perfiles de buceo (n = 17 095 inmersiones) consistieron en movimientos ininterrumpidos hacia abajo y hacia arriba a profundidades rara vez mayores de 35 m y nunca superiores a 41 m. Hubo una variacin considerable en el comportamiento de forrajeo a lo largo del da, con inmersiones ms frecuentes y menos profundas alrededor de la medianoche. Los patrones de buceo de A. torda resultan ser muy diferentes de los que se han reportado para individuos de Uria lomvia que se reproducen en la misma colonia. Se observaron diferencias considerables en la duracin de los viajes, el nmero promedio de inmersiones y la asignacin del tiempo entre las dos pocas reproductivas, lo que sugiere que existieron diferencias en las condiciones de forrajeo para las aves. 
40072454|Fitness in a hybrid zone is determined both by the reproductive success and the survival of phenotypes. The hybrid zone of Northern Flickers (
10.1525/cond.2010.090043|Waterfowl lay large clutches of eggs over many days, yet the offspring hatch synchronously, indicating regulatory mechanisms must aid in minimizing developmental differences among offspring. Understanding how embryos' metabolic rates vary with the sequence in which the egg is laid can provide insight into intrinsic mechanisms regulating the synchrony of hatching. Furthermore, developmental rates differing among offspring within a clutch likely have post-hatching consequences for offspring performance. We characterized variation in developmental rates within a clutch and the consequences for offspring performance in the Canada Goose (
10.2307/1368060|Geographic variation in body size and reverse size dimorphism (RSD) of the Great Horned Owl (Bubo virginianus) was assessed from a suite of 18 variables measured on 418 specimens. Great Horned Owls varied considerably in size across both geographic and subspecific boundaries. In a comparison of regional means, the largest owls were from Ontario, the smallest from Texas and California, but strong support for Bergmann's Rule was absent. There was also no obvious relationship between geographic variation in body size of Great Horned Owls and the size of typical prey species. Reverse size dimorphism (RSD) was virtually constant across all regions. This lack of variation implies that RSD is a species-specific character which does not covary in a systematic way with body size. There was more geographic variation in the size of body core variables than there was for skull, leg, and wing characters. Great Horned Owls from southern localities had relatively small body cores providing weak support for Allen's Rule. Average body sizes and levels of RSD were calculated for seven subspecies (virginianus, occidentalis, wapacuthu [subarcticus], pallescens, pacificus, saturatus, and lagophonus). The largest subspecies is occidentalis, which is widely distributed in the mid-western and western U.S. The smallest is pacificus, which is restricted to California. Significant size differences were found between subspecies even where their ranges overlapped. This suggests either that gene flow across subspecific boundaries is restricted or that strong selection maintains the size differences. An evaluation of the genetic differences among subspecies is needed to assess the significance of racial variation in this species.
4501003| Acute corticosterone secretion helps individuals survive perturbation, particularly when faced with unpredictable conditions. However, elevated corticosterone is often incompatible with reproduction. Male Yellow Warblers (Dendroica petechia) breeding at high latitude avoid this conflict by exhibiting a reduced adrenocortical response while provisioning nestlings. To determine if this reduction is cued by nestlings, in June 2000 we switched clutches between nest pairs to manipulate hatching date. We sampled males with early-hatching clutches for the adrenocortical response 24 hr after nestlings hatched, but 24 hr prior to the premanipulated (original) hatching date. Similarly, we sampled males with late-hatching clutches 24 hr after the original hatching date, but prior to nestlings hatching. Males with early-hatching clutches (n = 6) showed no reduced adrenocortical response, while males with late-hatching clutches (n = 6) appeared to show a reduced response even without nestlings, suggesting that nestlings do not cue the reduction. An endogenous clock, day-counting mechanism, or hormonal changes may be associated with the reduced adrenocortical response. /// La secretin intensa de corticosterona ayuda a los individuos a sobrevivir a las perturbaciones, particularmente cuando se enfrentan a condiciones impredecibles. Sin embargo, un elevado nivel de corticosterona es comnmente incompatible con la reproductin. Los individuos de Dendroica petechia que cran a altas latitudes evitan este conflicto exhibiendo una respuesta adenocortical reducida mientras estn aprovisionando a los pichones. Para determinar si esta reduccin es provocada por los pichones, en junio de 2000 intercambiamos nidadas entre pares de nidos para manipular la fecha de eclosin. Muestreamos la respuesta adenocortical en los machos con nidadas que eclosionaron temprano 24 h despus de que los pichones eclosionaron, pero 24 h antes de la fecha original (previa a la manipulacin) de eclosin. De modo similar, muestreamos machos con nidadas eclosionadas tardamente 24 h despus de la fecha original de eclosin, pero antes de la eclosin de los pichones. Los machos con nidadas con eclosin temprana (n = 6) no mostraron una respuesta adenocortical reducida, mientras que los machos con nidadas eclosionadas tarde (n = 6) parecieron mostrar una respuesta reducida incluso sin pichones, lo que sugiere que los pichones no provocan la reduccin. Un reloj endgeno, un mecanismo de conteo de los das o cambios hormonales podran estar asociados con una respuesta adenocortical reducida. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100213|Many populations of the American Kestrel (
10.2307/1369793|We studied nesting effort and success of Northern Pintails (Anas acuta) in southern Alberta. Annual nesting success estimates ranged from 6-18%. Clutch size averaged 7.2, and declined in a simple curvilinear fashion with nest initiation date. We found no relationship between egg size and clutch size or evidence from one year to the next of a trade-off between current and future investment in eggs. Within-year renesting rate ranged from 55%, based on a sample of 20 decoy-trapped females that lost their first nests to predators, to 85% based on a sample of 13 nest-trapped females forced to renest when we removed their clutches. Greater investment in initial clutches led to longer delays in laying replacement clutches. Because delays in renesting are costly (late-nesting females produce fewer offspring), females must contend with a trade-off between maximizing reproductive output in initial clutches versus the risk of delayed renesting if the first clutch should fail. We suggest that pintail reproductive traits have evolved primarily in response to short nesting seasons and variable environments.
10.2307/1369173|We compared mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction fragment profiles from samples of 13 bird species that occur on both sides of Beringia. All but two species, Lapland Longspur (Calcarius lapponicus) and Green-winged Teal (Anas crecca), exhibited evidence of genetic differentiation, albeit at varying degrees. Several species exhibited mtDNA differentiation consistent with species-level distinctness: Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus), Three-toed Woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus), Whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus), Mew Gull (Larus canus), Black-billed Magpie (Pica pica), American Pipit (Anthus rubescens), and Rosy Finch (Leucosticte arctoa). Other species exhibited levels of mtDNA differentiation intermediate between populations and species: Barn Swallow (Hirundo rustica), Common Tern (Sterna hirundo), Common Snipe (Gallinago gallinago), and Pelagic Cormorant (Phalacrocorax pelagicus). Because of small sample sizes, we do not recommend formal taxonomic changes, although our data could be combined with other data to raise several taxa to species level. Our data do not indicate a consistent level of mtDNA differentiation between putatively conspecific populations on different sides of Beringia, suggesting different times of colonization or cessation of gene exchange. Most comparisons of birds within continents exhibit less mtDNA differentiation than our trans-Beringia comparisons, suggesting limited gene flow between continents.
10.2307/1368638|To examine factors that possibly limit clutch size in Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura), we exchanged eggs of equal age among nests to create clutches of one and three eggs. We compared the breeding success of parents rearing these clutches to that of parents rearing natural, two-egg clutches. Adults were fully capable of incubating three-egg clutches and brooding three nestlings. Nestlings in enlarged broods grew more slowly than those in control (two-young) broods during the crop-milk stage and generally had less full crops throughout the nestling period. Enlarged broods took 1.3 days longer to fledge. After reaching the growth asymptote, nestlings in enlarged broods had normal carpometacarpus lengths but weighed 26% less than those in control broods. Parents of enlarged broods fledged an estimated 30% more offspring than those of control broods. However, low postfledging survival may negate the advantage to parents rearing three offspring per nest.
1369696|Common Loon (Gavia immer) carcasses recovered in New England had more stones of greater combined mass in their stomachs than loons from the southeastern United States. Stones retained in sieves with mesh sizes between 4.75 and 8.00 mm accounted for the greatest percentage (by mass) of grit in loon stomachs. The median longest dimension of the largest single stone in each stomach was 12.5 mm in loons from New England and 10.7 mm in loons from the southeast (maximum = 23.1 mm and 16.8 mm, respectively). A recent national proposal to restrict the use of certain fishing weights in the United States called for a ban on lead fishing sinkers of 25.4 mm or less in any dimension. Our findings suggest it is unlikely that Common Loons would ingest lead fishing weights greater than 25.4 mm in any dimension, if such ingestion was solely the result of their search for replacement stones for their stomachs. However, this does not preclude the possibility that loons may ingest larger fishing weights under other circumstances, such as the consumption of fish with attached sinkers.
1370351| A number of wild bird species have fortuitously incorporated themselves into urban life. One of these, the Rufous-collared Sparrow (Zonotrichia capensis), dwells with seemingly similar success in urban and rural areas. Nevertheless, we found that urban Rufous-collared Sparrows have lower body weight, higher blood glucose concentration, higher proportion of heterophils (H), lower proportion of lymphocytes (L), and consequently, a larger H:L stress index, than rural ones. After two weeks of captivity rural birds developed blood characteristics that resembled those of urban birds. These indices reveal typical primary (acute), and secondary (chronic) stress characteristics in the urban birds. /// Varias especies de aves han sido incorporadas a la vida urbana. Una de ellas, Zonotrichia capensis, habita con similar xito tanto en ambientes urbanos como rurales. Sin embargo, hemos notado que individuos urbanos de Z. capensis tienen un peso corporal menor, mayores niveles de glucosa circulante, mayor proporcin de heterfilos (H), menor proporcin de linfocitos (L), y consecuentemente un mayor ndice de estrs H:L que individuos rurales. Aves rurales mantenidos en cautiverio por dos semanas presentaron cambios hematolgicos que concuerdan con las caractersticas de las aves urbanas. Estos ndices revelan caractersticas de estrs primarias (agudas) y secundarias (crnicas) que son tpicas en aves urbanas. 
10.2307/1369351|The responses of male and female Eastern Screech-Owls (Otus asio) to a human approaching the nest were examined. Intensity of nest defense as measured by distance of approach, number of flights and dives, and number of vocalizations was more pronounced during the nestling stage than during the incubation stage. These results generally support both the age-investment and positive-reinforcement hypotheses. In addition, male owls defended nestlings more vigorously than did females. As in many other owls, male screech-owls are smaller than females (reversed sexual dimorphism), and the increased maneuverability of the smaller males may have contributed to this difference. Other factors (e.g., the use of a relatively large predator), however, could also be involved. Males also responded with greater intensity as the human intruder moved closer to the nest, supporting the hypothesis that "well-armed" parents should respond vigorously as a predator gets close to a nest. Such a response informs the potential predator of the direction it must move to reduce the likelihood of injury.
10.2307/1367595|Brown Jays are group breeders with helpers at the nest. In a montane population in Costa Rica, we found that flock composition by age class was highly variable. In this population the number of Old flock members predicted breeding success better than flock size. We suggest that experience may be important to the reproductive success of some cooperative breeders. This interpretation is supported by age-specific differences in nest attendance. Judged by the total number of feedings and the proportion of aborted feedings, the effectiveness of nest attendants increased with age. Further, Young birds improved significantly as nest attendants over one breeding season. To our knowledge, our findings offer the first quantitative support of Lack's hypotheses that young helpers are unlikely to breed successfully on their own and must learn to care for nestlings.
1370702| We determined sperm concentrations in Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) by manually expressing semen samples from males during prelaying, egg-laying, incubation, and nestling periods. Sperm concentrations varied by orders of magnitude (0-10<sup>9</sup> sperm mL<sup>-1</sup>) among males. Sperm concentrations were highest during the incubation period and lowest during the prelaying period. None of the samples collected during the prelaying, egg-laying, and incubation periods were devoid of sperm. In contrast, 45% of samples collected during the nestling period lacked sperm. Sperm concentrations (1) did not vary over the course of the morning during prelaying, egg-laying, and incubation periods but significantly increased during the nestling period; (2) did not vary with the date that samples were collected during prelaying, egg laying, and incubation but significantly decreased with date during the nestling period; and (3) did not vary with the number of fertile females at the study site during any part of the breeding season. We hypothesize that the variations in sperm concentration arose from a combination of factors including intrinsic differences among males, daily patterns of sperm depletion associated with copulation, and an end-of-season decline in sperm production. If males vary in sperm availability then female. Tree Swallows may benefit from pursuing extra-pair copulations as fertility insurance. /// Determinamos la concentracin de esperma en Tachycineta bicolor tomando manualmente muestras de semen de machos durante los periodos de pre-puesta, puesta de huevos, incubacin y con pichones. La concentracin de esperma vari en rdenes de magnitud (0-10<sup>9</sup> esperma por mL) entre machos. Las concentraciones de esperma fueron mayores durante el periodo de incubacin y menores durante el periodo de pre-puesta. Todas las muestras colectadas durante los periodos de pre-puesta, puesta e incubacin contuvieron esperma. En contraste, el 45% de las muestras colectadas durante el perodo con pichones no contuvieron esperma. Las concentraciones de esperma (1) no variaron durante el curso de la maana en los periodos de pre-puesta, puesta e incubacin, pero aumentaron significativamente durante el periodo con pichones; (2) no variaron con la fecha en la que las muestras fueron colectadas durante los periodos de pre-puesta, puesta e incubacin, pero disminuyeron significativamente con la fecha durante el periodo con pichones; y (3) no variaron durante toda la estacin reproductiva con el nmero de hembras frtiles en el sitio de estudio. Hipotetizamos que esta variacin en la concentracin de esperma se origin de una combinacin de factores incluyendo diferencias intrnsecas entre machos, patrones diarios de vaciamiento de esperma asociados con la cpula, y una disminucin al final de la estacin en la produccin de esperma. Si los machos varan en la disponibilidad de esperma, entonces las hembras de T. bicolor se beneficiaran de obtener copulaciones extra-pareja para asegurar la fertilidad. 
10.2307/1368557| Factors important in Shiny Cowbird (Molothrus bonariensis) host selection were examined within the mangrove community in Puerto Rico. Cowbirds did not parasitize birds in proportion to their abundance. The cowbird breeding season coincided with those of its major hosts, which were "high-quality" foster species (i.e., species that fledge 55% of cowbirds hatched: Yellow Warbler, Dendroica petechia; Yellow-shouldered Blackbird, Agelaius xanthomus; Black-whiskered Vireo, Vireo altiloquus; Black-cowled Oriole, Icterus dominicensis; Puerto Rican Flycatcher, Myiarchus antillarum; Troupial, Icterus icterus), and did not extend into other periods even though nests of "low-quality" species (i.e., species that fledge <55% of cowbird chicks that hatched: Bronze Mannikin, Lonchura cucullata; Greater Antillean Grackle, Quiscalus niger; Gray Kingbird, Tyrannus dominicensis; Northern Mockingbird, Mimus polyglottos; Red-legged Thrush, Turdus plumbeus) were available. Shiny Cowbird food habits and egg size were similar to those of their hosts, suggesting that cowbirds choose hosts partly on the basis of this combination. Cowbirds located host nests primarily by cryptically watching activities of birds in likely habitats. Other nest locating strategies were active searching of suitable habitat and "flushing" of hosts by the cowbird's noisy approach. Cowbirds used nest building and territorial defense activities of hosts as cues to nest location and status. Cowbirds closely monitored nest status with frequent visits that peaked on the host's first day of egg laying. Hosts using covered nests (e.g., cavities, domed nests) were as vulnerable to cowbird parasitism as those building open nests. 
10.2307/1367345|We studied the breeding of 125 pairs of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) in a large colony at Monomoy, Massaschusetts, in 1979. The colony was subjected to predation by one or more Great Horned Owls (Bubo virginianus). The adult terns deserted the colony for 6.5-8 hours each night throughout the season. Although the owl(s) took no adults and only about 20 chicks from our study plots, the terns suffered unusually heavy losses from other causes, including breakage and disappearance of eggs, hatching failures, attacks by ants (Lasius neoniger), chilling of newly-hatched chicks, and predation by Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax). In a 10-year study, most of these causes of egg and chick loss have been associated with nocturnal desertion and predation by Great Horned Owls. Although nocturnal desertion is effective in minimizing owl predation on adults, it leaves the eggs and chicks vulnerable to chilling and predation. In 1979, both direct and indirect effects of predation fell more heavily on terns that laid in May than on terns that laid in June. Differential predation on early nesters tends to offset other factors that presumably favor early nesting.
10.2307/1370304| I studied allozymic variation in five species of Amazonian birds at two geographic scales. At a local scale (all sites within 200 km of one another), I included samples from six sites, three within continuous forest and three in natural forest fragments thought to be several thousand years old. I examined both genetic variation and differentiation to determine whether there were genetic effects related to forest fragmentation. At this local scale, I found little evidence in the allozymic data that clearly suggested genetic structure had been affected in any uniform pattern among species. However, there was genetic differentiation at this level and estimated gene flow (NM<sub>est</sub> from private alleles) was low relative to what is reported in other avian studies. At the regional level, I compared samples from sites that were 500-1,500 km from one another from two Amazonian areas of endemism (Inambari and Rondnia). Four of the five species exhibited substantial differentiation between samples from the two areas of endemism, consistent with other studies of genetic differentiation in Neotropical forest understory birds. 
4096539| Introduced avian pox virus and malaria have had devastating impacts on native Hawaiian forest birds, yet little has been published about their prevalence and distribution in forest bird communities outside of windward Hawaii Island. We surveyed native and non-native forest birds for these two diseases at three different elevations on leeward Mauna Loa Volcano at the Kona Forest Unit of Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge. Prevalence of malaria by both serology and microscopy varied by elevation and ranged from 28% at 710 m to 13% at 1830 m. Prevalence of pox-like lesions also varied by altitude, ranging in native species from 10% at 710 m to 2% at 1830 m. Native species at all elevations had the highest prevalence of malarial antibody and pox-like lesions. By contrast, pox-like lesions were not detected in individuals of four non-native species and only 5% of Japanese White-eye (Zosterops japonicus) was positive for malaria. A significantly high proportion of birds with pox-like lesions also had serological evidence of concurrent, chronic malarial infections, suggesting an interaction between these diseases, dual transmission of both diseases by the primary mosquito vector (Culex quinquefasciatus) or complete recovery of some pox-infected birds without loss of toes. Results from this study document high prevalence of malaria and pox at this refuge. Development of effective disease control strategies will be important for restoration of remnant populations of the endangered 'Akiapola'au (Hemignathus munroi), Hawaii Creeper (Oreomystis mana), and Hawaii 'Akepa (Loxops coccineus coccineus) that still occur on the refuge. /// La malaria y la viruela aviar, ambas introducidas, han tenido un impacto devastador sobre las aves nativas de bosque, pero se ha publicado poco sobre su prevalencia y distribucin en las comunidades fuera de la isla de Hawai. Muestreamos aves de bosque nativas y no nativas para determinar la presencia de estas dos enfermedades a diferentes elevaciones en el volcn Mauna Loa en la Unidad Forestal de Kona del Refugio de Fauna Silvestre del Bosque Nacional de Hakalau. La prevalencia de malaria determinada a travs de serologa y microscopa vari con la altitud entre un 28% a 710 m y un 13% a 1830 m. La prevalencia de lesiones del tipo de la viruela aviar tambin vari con la altitud, entre un 10% a 710 m y un 2% a 1839 m en especies nativas. Las especies nativas tuvieron la ms alta prevalencia de anticuerpos contra malaria y lesiones del tipo de la viruela aviar. De modo contrastante, las lesiones del tipo de la viruela aviar no se detectaron en individuos de cuatro especies no nativas y slo el 5% de los individuos de la especie Zosterops japonicus fue positivo para malaria. Una proporcin significativamente alta de las aves con lesiones del tipo de la viruela aviar tambin presentaron evidencia serolgica de infecciones cr nicas de malaria simultneas, sugiriendo una interaccin entre estas dos enfermedades, transmisin dual de las enfermedades por el vector principal (el mosquito Culex quinquefasciatus) o recuperacin completa en algunas aves infectadas con viruela aviar sin la prdida de dedos. Los resultados de este estudio documentan altas prevalencias de malaria y viruela aviar en este refugio. El desarrollo de estrategias de control de estas enfermedades ser importante para la restauracin de las poblaciones remanentes de las especies en peligro Hemignathus munroi, Oreomystis mana, y Loxops coccineus coccineus que an existen en el refugio. 
10.2307/1369040|Radio telemetry was used to record daily activity budgets of 26 South Georgian Shags (Phalacrocorax georgianus) during the chick-rearing period at Bird Island, South Georgia. There was a significant sex difference in the timing of feeding, with the female making the first trip of the day in 93% of pairs (n = 15). On average, each shag made 2.3 trips/day and was absent for a total of 6.22 hr/day. The majority of time away from the colony was spent diving (86.7%), but long recovery periods on the surface between dives and time needed to travel to the seabed resulted in only 1.06 hr/day being potentially available for prey capture. Given that these activity data were collected during a season when feeding conditions were favorable, breeding shags at Bird Island appear to have little capacity to increase the time available for prey capture. We speculate that the population may be extremely sensitive to changes in food availability. Males spent more time flying and on the sea than did females. On average, birds with broods of two or three chicks spent more time diving (6.42 hr/day) than those with broods of one (4.74 hr/day) but there was no tendency for the amount of time spent diving to increase with chick age. Although South Georgian Shags exhibited the same sexually distinct foraging patterns as Antarctic Shags P. bransfieldensis at a colony on the Antarctic Peninsula, their activity budgets differed radically, with shags at Bird Island spending a much greater percentage of their time away diving (86.7% compared with 8.4%).
10.1525/cond.2012.110028|Molecular analyses have confirmed that the majority of socially monogamous birds follow a genetically promiscuous reproductive strategy. Most such studies, however, have addressed species of the North Temperate Zone; tropical species are grossly underrepresented, although most of Earth's biodiversity is concentrated in the tropics. In this study, we describe the genetic mating strategy of the Rufous-and-white Wren (
1370376| In a previous study (Isler et al. 1997) we examined species limits in the Thamnophilus punctatus complex of the Neotropics. We recommended that six taxa be considered species, but were unable to make recommendations regarding two morphologically distinct and geographically restricted taxa, leucogaster and huallagae, due to the lack of vocal recordings which were essential to our methodology. Analysis of newly obtained recordings has found that vocal differences support the separation at the species level of leucogaster and huallagae from five of the six species in the complex (T. atrinucha, T. stictocephalus, T. sticturus, T. pelzelni, and T. ambiguus). However, leucogaster and huallagae could not be distinguished vocally from each other nor from nominate punctatus to an extent that supported species status, and they are retained as subspecies under our recommended guidelines (Isler et al. 1998, 1999). The Thamnophilus punctatus complex affords an interesting opportunity for future molecular studies that compare the genetic distances among populations that have differentiated vocally and those that have not. The question of species status of leucogaster and huallagae is pressing because the ranges of both taxa are limited to sub-Andean basins in northwestern Peru and southwestern Ecuador that increasingly are under cultivation. /// En un estudio anterior (Isler et al. 1997) hemos examinado los lmites entre las especies en el complejo de Thamnophilus punctatus del Neotrpico. Hemos recomendado que seis taxones sean considerados especies, pero no nos ha sido posible hacer recomendaciones referentes a dos taxones morfolgicamente diferentes y geogrficamente restringidos, leucogaster y huallagae, debido a la falta de registros vocales, los cuales son esenciales para nuestra metodologa. El anlisis de grabaciones recientemente obtenidas ha mostrado que las diferencias vocales apoyan la separacin, al nivel de especie, de leucogaster y huallagae de cinco de las seis especies en el complejo (T. atrinucha, T. stictocephalus, T. sticturus, T. pelzelni, and T. ambiguus). Sin embargo, no ha sido posible distinguir vocalmente a leucogaster y huallagae entre s ni del nominado punctatus hasta el punto en que se justifique el estatus de especie, y han sido mantenidas como subespecies bajo las directrices recomendadas por nosotros (Isler et al. 1998, 1999). El complejo de Thamnophilus punctatus ofrece una interesante oportunidad para futuros estudios moleculares que comparen las distancias genticas entre las poblaciones que se han diferenciado vocalmente y aqullas que no lo han hecho. La cuestion del estatus especfico de leucogaster y huallagae es apremiante, ya que ambos taxones estn restringidos a cuencas sub Andinas en el noroccidente del Peru y el suroriente de Ecuador, sometidas a una creciente presin agrcola. 
10.2307/1368834| Electrophoretic and isoelectric focusing analyses of liver proteins of the steamer-ducks, Tachyeres patachonicus, T. pteneres, T. brachypterus, and T. leucocephalus, show these species to be distinct genetically, with the latter three species being more closely related to one another than any one of them is to T. patachonicus. There is also significant differentiation among populations of T. patachonicus. Estimates of the average calculated heterozygosity per species are high: 0.185, 0.160, 0.165, and 0.084, respectively, and observed heterozygosities are 0.115  0.090, 0.202  0.118, 0.201  0.085, and 0.080  0.069, respectively. The genetic distances of Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards, Nei, and Rogers were estimated and used with a Wagner tree algorithm to prepare a consensus tree based on 1,000 subsets of allelic frequency data prepared by bootstrapping over loci. Estimates of F
10.2307/1369664|We examined grit consumption in the facultative granivorous Rufous-collared Sparrow (Zonotrichia capensis). Grit consumption fluctuated seasonally and was significantly correlated with morphological changes in the digestive tract, and with seed size. The highest values of grit consumption and digestive tract mass were observed during winter. Laboratory experiments suggested that grit consumption was a voluntary behavior rather than the result of accidental ingestion, and favored digestibility. Grit consumption varied considerably when Z. capensis fed on different types of food, but remained constant when food availability varied. We suggest that grit consumption together with morphological changes in the digestive tract allow Z. capensis to increase energy acquisition in response to higher energy demands during winter-time.
10.2307/1369504|We examined wetland selection by breeding Green-winged Teal (Anas crecca carolinensis) in terms of wetland fertility near Riske Creek, British Columbia, Canada. We conducted 12 breeding-pair surveys to classify use of 96 wetlands. We evaluated wetland fertility by analyzing water chemistry (pH, conductivity, alkalinity [CaCO
10.2307/1368199| We designed an experiment to identify factors contributing most to error in counts of Hawaiian Crow or Alala (Corvus hawaiiensis) groups that are detected aurally. Seven observers failed to detect calling Alala on 197 of 361 3-min point counts on four transects extending from cages with captive Alala. A detection curve describing the relation between frequency of flock detection and distance typified the distribution expected in transect or point counts. Failure to detect calling Alala was affected most by distance, observer, and Alala calling frequency. The number of individual Alala calling was not important in detection rate. Estimates of the number of Alala calling (flock size) were biased and imprecise: average difference between number of Alala calling and number heard was 3.24 (0.277). Distance, observer, number of Alala calling, and Alala calling frequency all contributed to errors in estimates of group size (P < 0.0001). Multiple regression suggested that number of Alala calling contributed most to errors. These results suggest that well-designed point counts may be used to estimate the number of Alala flocks but cast doubt on attempts to estimate flock size when individuals are counted aurally. 
10.2307/1368315|I counted nesting pairs of Ferruginous Hawks (Buteo regalis) and Swainson's Hawks (B. swainsoni) on 76 41-km
10.2307/1368196|We present data on variation in frequency and duration characters of the advertising song of Zonotrichia capensis, the Rufous-collared sparrow, and information on the qualitative structure of the introductory "theme." These data are analyzed with respect to their relationships with altitude, habitat type, body size, syrinx size and the dialect variation shown by the terminal trill. Principal components analysis shows that the major axis of variation (PC1) in the frequency and duration variables is one primarily of increasing frequency and bandwidth of the trill (mainly due to increasing maximum trill frequency), increasing frequency of the theme, and of increasing song length, mainly contributed by theme length; increasing values on PC2 correspond to an increasing theme bandwidth and maximum theme frequency, with decreasing theme length and increasing trill length. PC1 scores from this analysis are negatively correlated with altitude over the whole sample. Higher-altitude habitats are usually structurally open, lower-altitude habitats usually mixed or closed. Songs from the nine categories of original, natural vegetation differ significantly in their PC1 scores, while contemporary vegetation structure has no significant effect: songs from the open-country habitats, desert, puna and grassland are shorter, have lower frequency and narrower bandwidth than all woodland, thornscrub and forest songs. With the exception of the very slow-trilled songs from the Monte desert dialect, there is a positive relationship between trill interval and PC1 score: slower-trilled songs (longer trill interval; lower trill rate) are longer, of higher frequency and broader bandwidth. The slow-trill Monte dialect songs are anomalous in having PC1 characteristics like the fastest-trilled dialect songs (puna and grassland). There is a significant negative relationship between body size and PC1, though it is nonlinear: birds from all habitats but puna are very similar in having smaller body size. Syrinx size is not correlated either with measures of body size or with habitat. It is concluded that most variation in song modal frequency and bandwidth is due to learning processes, rather than to size constraints of the body or organs.
10.2307/1368728|Prolactin has been associated with incubation and brooding in passerine birds, but its possible association with other parental behaviors remains unclear. We measured plasma concentrations of prolactin (prl) in Dark-eyed Juncos (Junco hyemalis), a species in which only females incubate and brood but both sexes feed nestlings. Breeding males and females were bled at the time their eggs hatched, and half the males were taken from their territories. Females and the remaining males were bled again when their young left the nest. Removed males were quickly replaced by new males, some of which we caught and bled. Replacement males courted the females but rarely fed their predecessors' young. Removed males were held in an aviary and bled again in late summer. Prl concentrations were higher in females than males, both at hatching and at nest leaving. Female prl was higher at hatching than at nest leaving and did not vary seasonally. Male prl was higher at hatching than at nest leaving and higher earlier in the season than later. Rearing young alone had no detectable effect on prl in females. Prl of replacement males was lower than that of fathers at hatching but not at nest leaving. Prl in removed males in the aviary was lower than in fathers at hatching but not at nest leaving. These patterns of prl secretion resemble those in other species that raise more than one brood per season and in which females provide the bulk of parental care. In addition, prl may be associated with male parental behavior in juncos.
4151050| We estimated core areas and home-range sizes and evaluated sex differences in home-range size, seasonal variation in movements, and space use for breeding Common Ravens (Corvus corax) in western Marin County, California. There were no significant interannual differences in average core area or average home-range size for either sex, although there were small-scale shifts in home-range use for 67% of females and 63% of males. There was no significant difference in home-range size between the sexes. Home-range size was positively correlated with distance to food source. Ravens traveled shorter distances from the nest during the incubation + nestling stage compared to other stages of the breeding season. Core areas were centered around nest sites and food sources, with significantly aggregated locations for 83% and 100% of females in 2000 and 2001, respectively. Males were more variable in their use of space, with significantly aggregated locations for 38% and 44% of males in 2000 and 2001, respectively. Individual variation in home-range size, movements, and space use was likely due to differences in the distribution of important food sources in the area. /// Estimamos los tamaos del rea ncleo y rango de hogar y evaluamos las diferencias entre sexos en el tamao del rango de hogar, variaciones estacionales de los movimientos y utilizacin del espacio en Corvus corax en el oeste del condado Marin, California. No hubo diferencias interanuales signiflcativas en el rea ncleo promedio ni en el rango de hogar promedio para ninguno de los sexos, aunque para el 67% de las hembras y el 63% de los machos hubo cambios de pequea escala en el uso del rango de hogar. No hubo diferencias signiflcativas en el tamao de los rangos de hogar entre sexos. El tamao del rango de hogar estuvo positivamente correlacionado con la distancia a la fuente de alimento. Los cuervos viajaron distancias ms cortas desde el nido durante los perodos de incubacin y de cra de polluelos en comparacin con otros perodos durante la poca reproductiva. Las reas ncleo se centraron en los sitios de nidificacin y las fuentes de alimento, con posiciones significativamente agregadas para el 83% y 100% de las hembras en 2000 y 2001, respectivamente. Los machos presentaron mayor variabilidad en la utilizacin del espacio, con posiciones significativamente agregadas para un 38% y 44% de los machos en el 2000 y 2001, respectivamente. Las variaciones individuates en el tamao de los mbitos de hogar, movimientos y uso del espacio fueron probablemente dadas por las diferencias en la distribucin de los recursos alimenticios importantes en el rea. 
10.2307/1366994| A collection of 98 breeding Mexican Ducks (Anas platyrhynchos diazi) was made in Mexico from six areas between the United States border with Chihuahua and Lake Chapala, Jalisco, in order to study geographic variation. Plumage indices showed a relatively smooth clinal change from north to south; northern populations were most influenced by the Northern Mallard (A. p. platyrhynchos) phenotype. Most samples were fairly uniform; that from the Ro Conchos area in northeastern Chihuahua was noticeably more variable than the others. Soft part coloration is described. Weights varied from 849 to 1,243 g in males and from 647 to 1,264 g in females. Measurements of total, wing, and culmen lengths and bill width were usually significantly larger in males at any one site, but showed no regular geographic trends. Hybridization between platyrhynchos and diazi phenotypes may or may not be increasing in the middle Rio Grande and Ro Conchos valleys; available data are insufficient to decide. Introgression of the Northern Mallard genome into Mexican diazi populations may be largely historical owing to recent reductions in the number of migratory Mallards reaching Mexico. A spring 1978 aerial census yielded an estimate of 55,500 diazi-like birds in Mexico. Populations of diazi appear to be as large as the available habitat allows; management should be directed towards increasing and stabilizing the nesting habitat; and the stability of the zone of intergradation should be investigated. 
10.2307/1370330| We examined the use of Venezuelan shade-coffee plantations by the Cerulean Warbler (Dendroica cerulea) and other Neotropical migrants. Cerulean Warblers were commonly observed as pairs in mixed-species flocks. Average ( SE) flock size was 13  2 species with 22  3 individuals. Average flock territory size was 2.5  0.2 ha. No differences were detected in foraging behavior (maneuvers, location, or success) among adult males, adult females, and immature birds. Adult males were often observed visiting flowers of canopy trees. The results of this study indicate that shade coffee plantations may provide suitable wintering habitat for Cerulean Warblers although comparisons with other habitats are needed. 
10.2307/1368313|Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia) were studied to determine their nesting success and patterns of nest-site selection in northcentral Oregon during the breeding seasons of 1980 and 1981. Nest success was 57% for 63 nests in 1980 and 50% for 76 nests in 1981. Desertion was the major cause (32%) of nest failures and was related to the proximity of other nesting pairs. Depredation of nests by badgers (Taxidea taxus) was the next most frequent cause (14%) of nest failure. Nests lined with livestock dung were significantly less prone to predation than unlined nests. Burrowing Owls occupied three of the five habitats surveyed for pairs. Burrows with good horizontal visibility and little grass coverage were preferred. Elevated perches were used in habitats with average vegetation height >5 cm and not in habitats with vegetation <5 cm. Elevated perches presumably improved the Burrowing Owl's ability to detect both predators and prey by increasing their horizontal visibility. Low grass cover may be indicative of a high availability of prey preferred by Burrowing Owls. The nesting ecology of Columbia Basin Burrowing Owls appears to be strongly influenced by the availability of badger burrows for nesting and, in turn, on predation pressures by badgers.
40306196|In eastern North America, most early-successional woody habitats are ephemeral and succeed to forests within a few decades. Consequently, for shrubland birds patches of habitat are generally suitable for breeding for only a short time. This has led some authors to suggest that shrubland birds should show little fidelity to former breeding sites and frequently disperse to new, more suitable patches. Similarly, one would expect birds of mature forests to have greater site fidelity because their habitats are more stable. Understanding the dispersal strategies of shrubland birds has important implications for the management and conservation of these declining species. Therefore, I used meta-analysis to compare rates of site fidelity of migratory shrubland and forest passerines that breed in eastern North America. For adult birds, site fidelity of shrubland (estimate  SE = 0.353  0.022) and forest species (0.364  0.036) was similar. Philopatry of yearling birds to their natal site was lower but similar for shrubland (0.048  0.014) and forest birds (0.028  0.019). I conclude that dispersal rates of shrubland birds are not unusually high. Rather, both forest and shrubland species appear to follow decision rules that are common to passerines, with adults frequently returning to former breeding sites and yearlings dispersing away from their natal sites. For management, these results are encouraging, as populations of shrubland birds should persist in high-quality habitats maintained in an early-successional state.
10.2307/1369417|We use data from a 14-year study of dispersal, territoriality, and breeding success to investigate territory acquisition in male Red-winged Blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus). Males born in our study area that we later detected breeding had dispersed an average of about 1,400 m and had traversed an average of 25 territories between natal and breeding sites. Our data indicate that all or most males that bred within our study area were probably born no more than 5 km away. Some natal-year cohorts contributed disproportionately to the population of male breeders, suggesting that population structure influenced territory ownership. Most males that obtained territories did so when two years old (their first adult year), but a significant fraction spent at least one adult year as nonterritorial floaters. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that familiarity with particular areas contributes to territory ownership, but we found no evidence that Resource Holding Potential is a prime determinant of territory acquisition. Chance events may also strongly influence ability to gain a territory.
10.2307/1368874|Bird species richness, abundance and activity were compared between a control area (CA) of mature coastal sage scrub and a burned area (BA) near Los Angeles, California. Data were collected in paired samples on 80 species of birds from January 1983 to May 1984. The CA provided more habitat requirements for more individuals and species of birds throughout the year than the BA. Nonresidents used highly seasonal food sources that were little used by resident species. The BA was an adequate foraging area only during the spring and did not offer the same variety of vegetation types as the CA. Fire was found to decrease bird species richness in coastal sage scrub, unlike the pattern found in chaparral bird communities.
10.2307/1369428|Point counts and mist nets were used to survey the distribution of nearctic migrant landbirds wintering in 15 habitat types on the islands of Andros, New Providence, and Great Inagua in the Bahamas, and in western Cuba, Jamaica, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, and St. John in the Greater Antilles. Of 150 species detected, 23% were overwintering nearctic migrants. Migrants were found at 1-71% of the points in natural or disturbed habitat (mean = 25%). Distance from North America and island size contributed only 9% of the variation in total migrant abundance among all habitats, reflecting the fact that habitats on the same island often differed substantially in suitability. However, distance and island size contributed 48% of the variation in total migrant abundance in xeric habitats, indicating that these factors may be important in contributing to migrant abundance within a habitat. Generally, geographically-restricted species were not abundant while most geographically-widespread species were abundant in a wide range of habitats. No consistent relationships were found between the abundance and distribution of migrants and residents, but the two groups did not differ in their degree of habitat specialization. Habitat specialization by migrants was rare, with one species restricted primarily to mangroves and another to pine. As found in Yucatan, migrant species that breed in mature temperate-zone forest occurred in both mature forest and second-growth habitats in the winter. However, migrants that breed in early second-growth or edge habitats mostly avoided closed-canopy forests in the Caribbean.
10.2307/1368602|Egg size is commonly assumed to increase the fitness value of hatchlings, and yet, most intraspecific variation in egg size appears to be highly heritable. Because traits strongly associated with fitness are expected to have low heritabilities, these two observations are not mutually compatable unless other factors act to offset the fitness value of large eggs. In this paper, we assess the influence of intraspecific egg-size variation on incubation periods and rates of egg water loss among Japanese Quail (Coturnix japonica) eggs. In contrast to interspecific studies of these relationships, we observed very low correlations between the logarithms of fresh egg mass and incubation time (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.016, P = 0.01, n = 378) and between fresh egg mass and daily water loss (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.028, P = 0.03, n = 163). Analysis of fresh eggs and newly hatched chicks confirmed that heavier eggs lost proportionately less water during incubation. These observations suggest that statistical relationships derived from interspecific comparisons of egg size and egg physiology are not generally applicable to studies of intraspecific egg-size variation.
10.1525/cond.2011.090158|The Pelagic Cormorant (
10.1525/cond.2010.100004|In many avian species with synchronously hatching young, incubation and embryonic development begin prior to the completion of the clutch. However, mechanisms regulating synchronous hatching and more rapid embryonic development in eggs laid later in the clutch are poorly understood. We measured physical characteristics of eggs from complete clutches of Canada Geese (
10.1525/cond.2012.110130|Aside from the positive benefits of wind energy, wind farms often bring environmental problems such as noise production and wildlife collision. However, little is known about the effects of wind farms on the ecology of tropical landbirds. In this study, we evaluated changes in bird-community diversity, composition, and structure directly beneath wind turbines, 200 m away from turbines, and in nearby croplands and secondary forests. In general, our results show (1) a gradient of species richness, with values highest in croplands and secondary forests, intermediate values 200 m from turbines, and lowest values beneath turbines, (2) fairly similar bird abundance for all treatments, with values highest in secondary forests in autumn and lowest 200 m from turbines in autumn, (3) bird communities highly similar at each season, but communities at 0 and 200 m from turbines differed strongly in autumn and communities at the rest of the studied sites differed strongly during both spring and autumn, (4) evenness of the bird community greater in secondary forests and croplands and lower at both distances from wind turbines, and (5) the area covered by croplands outside the wind farm played an important role, often related to increases in species richness. Our results also suggest that wind farms have a greater effect on wintering migrants than on residents; however, further studies are required for such a comparison to be tested robustly.
10.2307/1369540| We used ornithological radar and night-vision scopes to study movement patterns of Dark-rumped Petrels (Pterodroma phaeopygia sandwichensis) and Newell's Shearwaters (Puffinus auricularis newelli) on the island of Kauai, Hawaii, from 1992 to 1994. Movement rates on radar (targets/hr) for both species peaked for 2 hr around sunset and sunrise and were low in the middle of the night. Dark-rumped Petrels generally moved during crepuscular periods, whereas Newell's Shearwaters were strongly nocturnal. Movement rates were much higher in fall 1993 than in fall 1992, probably because of effects of Hurricane Iniki in 1992, and were higher in summer than in fall, probably because of the presence of nonbreeding birds in summer. Movement rates increased through time in summer, probably because numbers of nonbreeding birds visiting colonies increased through time, but declined through time in fall because fewer adults returned to the colony as fledging progressed. Effects of the moon on movement rates appeared to be small. Movement rates varied geographically, generally being much higher on eastern and northern Kauai than on southern Kauai. Movements were predominantly inland in the evening, predominantly seaward in the morning, and both directions in the middle of the night. Birds flew between 8 and 800 m above ground level (agl) and averaged 142 m agl for all procellariid species combined. There was no relationship between elevation of a site and flight altitude of birds at that site. Flight altitudes at a site generally were highest during the evening peak of movement and lowest during the morning peak in summer but were not different among three periods of the night in fall. Dark-rumped Petrels flew at significantly higher altitudes than did Newell's Shearwaters in fall 1993 and summer 1994 but not in summer 1993. 
4122507| The Loggerhead Shrike (Lanius ludovicianus) breeds throughout North America and various populations apparently exhibit diverse molt strategies. However, molt in this species and how it may vary geographically is generally poorly known. We investigated molt sequence in 27 breeding Loggerhead Shrikes using stable hydrogen (D) isotope analysis of flight feathers. Because feather D varies with the latitude at which feathers are grown in North America, it is relatively straightforward to identify those feathers grown south of an individual's breeding location. We sampled 11 feathers per individual to evaluate locations of feather molt between breeding and wintering grounds in North America. Sampling took place in central Saskatchewan, Canada (n = 18 individuals) and in the southern region of the Saskatchewan-Manitoba border (n = 9). We found evidence that shrikes initiated flight feather molt on their breeding grounds (P1 and P3) but then largely suspended molt until reaching their wintering areas. The isotopic evidence suggests that the first primary (P1, most depleted in deuterium, mean = - 103) provides information on shrike breeding latitudes while the innermost tertial (S9, most enriched in deuterium, mean = -49) provides information on shrike wintering or southernmost molting latitudes. /// Lanius ludovicianus se reproduce extensamente en Norte Amrica y al parecer varias poblaciones exhiben diversas extrategias de muda. Sin embargo, de la muda de esta especie y como puede variar geogrficamente, generalmente poco se sabe. Investigamos la secuencia de muda de las plumas de vuelo en 27 Lanius ludovicianus reproductivos usando anlisis de istopo estable de hidrogen (D). Porque D en plumas varia con la latitud a la cual las plumas crecen en Norte Amrica, es relativamente sencillo identificar las plumas de un individuo que crecieron al sur del sitio de reproduccin. Muestreamos 11 tipos de plumas por individuo para evaluar las ubicaciones de muda de plumas entre los sitios de reproduccin e invernales en Norte Amrica. El muestreo ocurri en Saskatchewan central, Canad, (n = 18 individuos) y en la region surea de la frontera entre Saskatchewan y Manitoba (n = 9). Encontramos evidencia que Lanius ludovicianus iniciaron la muda de plumas de vuelo en sus sitios de reproduccin (P1 y P3) pero despus en gran parte la muda es suspendida hasta alcanzar sus sitios invernales. La evidencia isotpica sugiere que la primera primaria (PI, ms agotada en deuterio, promedio = - 103) nos proporciona informacin de la latitude de reproduccin de Lanius ludovicianus, mientras que la pluma terciara ms prxima (S9, la ms enriquecida en deuterio, promedio = - 49) nos proporciona informacin de la latidud de los sitios invernales o el lugar ms sureo de muda del Lanius ludovicianus. 
10.2307/1367829|The sequential organization of scanning for approaching predators and pecking for food was investigated by analyzing films of Yellow-eyed Juncos (Junco phaeonotus). The birds were photographed as they fed in small winter flocks in southern Arizona. For a given group size, the probability that a bird scans after each peck was found to be a constant. However, this probability decreased as flock size increased. The organization of sequences of scanning and pecking can be depicted as a simple Markov chain where an environmental variable, group size, probabilistically governs the change from pecking to scanning. In conclusion, flock size influences the frequency distribution of the number of consecutive pecks for food.
1369824| We examined the effects of habitat fragmentation and vegetation structure of shortgrass prairie and Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands on predation rates of artificial and natural nests in northeastern Colorado. The CRP provides federal payments to landowners to take highly erodible cropland out of agricultural production. In our study area, CRP lands have been reseeded primarily with non-native grasses, and this vegetation is taller than native shortgrass prairie. We measured three indices of habitat fragmentation (patch size, degree of matrix fragmentation, and distance from edge), none of which influenced mortality rates of artificial or natural nests. Vegetation structure did influence predation rates of artificial nests; daily mortality decreased significantly with increasing vegetation height. Vegetation structure did not influence predation rates of natural nests. CRP lands and shortgrass sites did not differ with respect to mortality rates of artificial nests. Our study area is only moderately fragmented; 62% of the study area is occupied by native grassland. We conclude that the extent of habitat fragmentation in our study area does not result in increased predation in remaining patches of shortgrass prairie habitat. /// Examinamos los efectos de fragmentacin de hbitat y estructura de la vegetacin sobre la tasa de depredacin de nidos artificiales y naturales en praderas de pasto corto y tierras del Programa de Reserva de Conservacin (CRP) en el noreste de Colorado. El CRP proporciona pagos federales para que los dueos de las tierras retiren sus cultivos de reas agrcolas altamente erosionables. En nuestra rea de estudio, las tierras de CRP han sido vueltas a sembrar principalmente con cspedes no nativos que son ms altos que la vegetacin nativa de las praderas de pasto corto. Medimos tres ndices de fragmentacin de hbitat (tamao del parche, grado de fragmentacin de la matriz, y distancia al borde), ninguno de los cuales influy sobre la tasa de mortalidad de nidos artificiales o naturales. La estructura de la vegetacin influenci la tasa de depredacin de nidos artificiales: la mortalidad diaria disminuy significativamente con incrementos en la altura de la vegetacin. La estructura de la vegetacin no influenci la tasa de depredacin de nidos naturales. Los sitios de CRP y de pastos cortos no difirieron con respecto a la tasa de mortalidad de nidos artificiales. Nuestra rea de estudio es slo moderadamente fragmentada pues el 62% del rea es ocupada por prado nativo. Concluimos que el grado de fragmentacin de hbitat en nuestra rea del estudio no causa aumentos en la depredacin en los parches de hbitat remanentes. 
10.1525/cond.2011.090152|Using multiple-covariate distance sampling with seasonal point transects, we surveyed for the Western Scrub-Jay (
10.1525/cond.2012.110139|Information regarding microhabitat, here defined as small-scale vegetation structure, is often useful in predicting use of habitat by birds. Quantifying microhabitat, however, is expensive and labor intensive compared to assessment of habitat at a larger scale, possibly from remotely sensed imagery. To assess the importance of microhabitat information in constructing predictive models of habitat occupancy, we compared occupancy models built on the basis of macro- and microhabitat together and separately. We based our models on counts of wintering migratory bird species and vegetation surveys within Tuskegee National Forest, Alabama, completed during winter 2009. Models built from macrohabitat data only outperformed models built from microhabitat data only for five of the six species analyzed. However, the best model for every focal species included both macro- and microhabitat covariates. Pine forestsexcluding plantationwere the only land-cover classification important to our focal species, and measures of density of vegetation were important in predicting occupancy. Our results suggest that migrants wintering at our study site select habitat at multiple scalesspecializing in certain types of cover and then preferring specific structural aspects of vegetation within them. We conclude that microhabitat information is important for inference into use of habitat by wintering migratory birds.
1370730| Clearing of shrubsteppe communities for agriculture has created a highly fragmented landscape in eastern Washington, a condition that has been shown to adversely affect nesting success of birds in some forest and grassland communities. We used artificial nests monitored by cameras to examine relative effects of fragmentation, distance to edge, and vegetation cover on nest predation rates and to identify predators of shrubsteppe-nesting passerines and grouse. Predation rate for artificial nests was 26% (n = 118). Fragmentation had a strong influence on predation rates for artificial nests, with nests in fragmented landscapes about 9 times more likely to be depredated as those in continuous landscapes. Daily survival rate ( SE) for 207 real nests of 4 passerine species also was greater in continuous (0.978  0.004) than in fragmented (0.962  0.006) landscapes, although pattern of predation between real and artificial nests was not consistent among sites. Artificial nests were depredated by Common Ravens (Corvus corax), Black-billed Magpies (Pica hudsonia), Sage Thrashers (Oreoscoptes montanus), least chipmunks (Tamias minimus), and mice. Most nests in fragments were depredated by corvids (58%), whereas only Sage Thrashers and small mammals depredated nests in continuous landscapes. Increased predation by corvids and lower nest success in fragmented landscapes may have played a part in recent declines of some shrubsteppe birds. Future research should measure annual reproductive success of individual females and survival rates of juveniles and adults. /// El reemplazo de estepa arbustiva por campos de cultivo ha creado un paisaje altamente fragmentado en el este de Washington, afectando adversamente el xito de nidificacin de aves en algunas comunidades de bosque y pastizal. Usamos nidos artificiales monitoreados por cmaras para examinar los efectos relativos de la fragmentacin, la distancia al borde y la cobertura de la vegetacin sobre las tasas de depredacin de nidos, y para identificar los depredadores de paserinos y gallinas silvestres (Phasianidae) que nidifican en la estepa arbustiva. La tasa de depredacin de los nidos artificiales fue del 26% (n = 118). La fragmentacin tuvo una fuerte influencia en las tasas de depredacin de nidos artificiales, ya que los nidos en paisajes fragmentados tuvieron una probabilidad de ser depredados 9 veces mayor que aquellos en paisajes continuos. La tasa de supervivencia diaria ( EE) de 207 nidos naturales pertenecientes a 4 especies de paserinos tambin fue mayor en paisajes continuos (0.978  0.004) que fragmentados (0.962  0.006), aunque el patrn de depredacin entre nidos naturales y artificiales no fue consistente entre sitios. Los nidos artificiales fueron depredados por Corvus corax, Pica hudsonia, Oreoscoptes montanus, Tamias minimus y ratones. La mayora de los nidos en fragmentos fueron depredados por C. corax (58%), mientras que slo O. montanus y pequeos mamferos depredaron nidos en paisajes continuos. Un incremento en la depredacin por parte de C. corax y un menor xito de los nidos en paisajes fragmentados puede haber jugado un rol en la disminucin de algunas aves de la estepa arbustiva. Futuras investigaciones deberan medir el xito reproductivo anual de hembras individuales y las tasas de supervivencia de juveniles y adultos. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120142|Cooperative breeding and complex social systems are known in woodpeckers, but most available information concerns species of the North Temperate Zone. The social behavior and breeding ecology of tropical woodpeckers are poorly documented. Here we present data on the breeding behavior and ecology of a tropical woodpecker, the Campo Flicker (
10.2307/1368575|Populations of the Yellow-billed Cuckoo, Coccyzus americanus, west of the Rocky Mountains have average wing lengths slightly greater than those of eastern North America, but the difference is not sufficient for taxonomic recognition. There is no geographically oriented variation in bill size or color, and the species is best considered monotypic.
4096488| To evaluate the contribution of simultaneous clutches to breeding success in female Mountain Quail (Oreortyx pictus), we located nests of radio-marked male and female Mountain Quail in west-central Idaho from 1992 to 1995 and estimated rates and parameters of nesting success. In our sample, 29 females, 19 males, and 4 quail of unknown sex, including 12 apparently monogamous pairs, incubated nests. Using logistic regression, we found that constant survival and sex were the best-supported models to explain nest success for 45 nests of known age. Odds of success for male-incubated nests were 1.7-times (95% Cl: 0.4-7.9) greater than for female-incubated nests. Mean clutch size for first nests was 11.8 (range: 6-16) and clutches incubated by males (12.6  0.3 eggs) were significantly larger than female-incubated clutches (11.4  0.4 eggs). Mean hatching date for all nests was 2 July (range: 10 June-23 July). Two of six females whose nests were depredated renested. Paired females produced an average of 24 eggs (range: 20-28). Mean hatching date for nine paired males was 30 June  3 days and 3 July  3 days for females. The estimated average number of days spent on nesting activities for nine successfully hatched pairs was 59 (range: 54-64). All 12 paired females hatched at least eight chicks from both clutches. Our findings indicate that simultaneous clutches in Mountain Quail ensures breeding success in females under conditions that may not be amenable to other forms of multiple brooding. /// Para evaluar la contribucin de las nidadas simultneas al xito reproductive de las hembras de la especie Oreortyx pictus, localizamos los nidos de machos y hembras marcados con radio transmisores en el oeste-centro de Idaho entre 1992 y 1995, y estimamos tasas y parmetros relacionados con el xito reproductive. Nuestra muestra de aves que se encontraban incubando estuvo compuesta por 29 hembras, 19 machos y cuatro individuos de sexo desconocido, incluyendo 12 parejas aparentemente monogamas. Mediante una regresin logstica determinamos que los modelos de supervivencia constante y sexo fueron los que mejor explicaron el xito de 45 nidos de edad conocida. Las probabilidades de xito para los nidos incubados por machos fueron 1.7 veces mayores (IC 95%: 0.4-7.9) que las de los nidos incubados por hembras. El tamao promedio de la nidada para los primeros nidos fue 11.8 huevos (rango: 6-16), y las nidadas incubadas por machos (12.6  0.3 huevos) fueron significativamente ms grandes que las incubadas por hembras (11.4  0.4 huevos). La fecha promedio de eclosin para todos los nidos fue julio 2 (rango: junio 10-julio 23). DOS de las seis hembras cuyos nidos fueron depredados volvieron a nidificar. Las hembras apareadas produjeron un promedio de 24 huevos (rango: 20-28). La fecha promedio de ecloson para los machos apareados fue junio 30  3 das y para las hembras julio 3  3 das. El nmero promedio de das dedicados a actividades de nidificacin estimado para las parejas que tuvieron xito en la eclosin fue 59 (rango: 54-64). Las 12 hembras apareadas tuvieron xito en la eclosion de al menos ocho pichones, contando ambas nidadas. Nuestros hallazgos indican que las nidadas simultneas aseguran el xito reproductivo de las hembras en O. pictus bajo condiciones que no seran favorables para otros modos de puesta de nidadas mltiples. 
4151027| Although Old World buntings (Emberizinae) may be considered suitable Common Cuckoo (Cuculus canorus) hosts, there is at present no evidence that any of the European species are regularly parasitized. Most historical parasitism records refer to the Yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella) and Reed Bunting (E. schoeniclus). Both of these species reject almost 100 of experimentally added nonmimetic eggs, and also a considerable proportion of experimentally added conspecific eggs, showing exquisite egg discrimination abilities. In this paper, we report Common Cuckoo parasitism and egg rejection behavior in a Bulgarian population of another Old World Emberizinae, the Corn Bunting (Miliaria calandra). We found this species was regularly parasitized (9, 8 of 90 nests) and that the parasitism rate was consistent among the three years of our study. Naturally laid Common Cuckoo eggs were fairly good mimics of host eggs and most were accepted (5 of 7). The Corn Bunting proved to be a suitable Common Cuckoo host as we recorded a successfully fledged cuckoo chick. Unlike Yellowhammers and Reed Buntings, Corn Buntings rejected only 42 (16 of 38) of experimentally introduced nonmimetic model Common Cuckoo eggs and none of the experimentally introduced conspecific eggs (n = 13). Parasitized nests had more and higher trees in the vicinity than unparasitized nests and breeding habitat characteristics may explain the difference in egg discrimination abilities between Corn Buntings and other Old World Emberizinae. /// Aunque los Emberizinae del viejo mundo podran considerarse hospederos adecuados para Cuculus canorus, en la actualidad no existe evidencia de que alguna de las especies europeas sea parasitada con regularidad. La mayora de registros histricos de parasitismo se refieren a Emberiza citrinella y a E. schoeniclus. Ambas especies rechazan casi el 100% de los huevos no mimticos adicionados experimentalmente y una proporcin considerable de huevos coespecficos, lo que demuestra que estas ayes poseen una excelente habilidad para discriminar huevos. En este estudio, documentamos el parasitismo por parte de C. canorus y el comportamiento de rechazo de huevos en una poblacin blgara de otra especie de Emberizinae del viejo mundo, Miliaria calandra. Encontramos que esta especie es parasitada regularmente (9%, 8 de 90 nidos), y la tasa de parasitismo fue consistente entre los tres aos de nuestro estudio. Los huevos de C. canorus puestos naturalmente imitaban relativamente bien a los del hospedero, y la mayora fueron aceptados (5 de 7). Miliaria calandra result ser un hospedero adecuado para C. canorus, pues un pichn abandon el nido exitosamente. A diferencia de E. citrinella y E. schoeniclus, M. calandra rechaz solo el 42% (16 de 38) de los huevos artificiales no mimticos de C. canorus introducidos experimentalmente, y no rechaz ninguno de los huevos coespecficos adicionados experimentalmente (n = 13). Los nidos parasitados estaban rodeados por un mayor nOmero de rboles y por rboles ms altos que los no parasitados. Las caracterIsticas del ambiente de nidificacin podran explicar la diferencia entre M calandra y otros Emberizinae en la capacidad de discriminar huevos. 
1370104| Satellite telemetry was used to determine fall migratory movements of Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) breeding in the United States. Study areas were established along the lower Columbia River between Oregon and Washington; in north-central Minnesota; on Shelter Island, New York; and in southern New Jersey. Seventy-four adults (25 males, 49 females) were tracked from 1995 through 1999. Migration routes differed among populations but not by sex. Western Ospreys migrated through California and to a lesser degree other western states and wintered in Mexico (88%), El Salvador (6%), and Honduras (6%) (25.9N to 13.0N and 108.3W to 87.3W). Minnesota Ospreys migrated along three routes: (1) through the Central U.S. and then along the east coast of Mexico, (2) along the Mississippi River Valley, then across the Gulf of Mexico, or (3) through the southeastern U.S., then across the Caribbean. East Coast birds migrated along the eastern seaboard of the U.S., through Florida, and across the Caribbean. Midwestern birds wintered from Mexico south to Bolivia (22.35N to 13.64S, and 91.75W to 61.76W), while East Coast birds wintered from Florida to as far south as Brazil (27.48N to 18.5S and 80.4W to 57.29W). Dates of departure from breeding areas differed significantly between sexes and geographic regions, with females leaving earlier than males. Western birds traveled a shorter distance than either midwestern or eastern Ospreys. Females traveled farther than males from the same population, which resulted in females typically wintering south of males. /// Se utiliz telemetra satelital para determinar los movimientos de migracin de otoo de individuos de Pandion haliaetus que nidifican en los Estados Unidos. Las reas de estudio se establecieron a lo largo del Ro Columbia entre Oregon y Washington; en el centronorte de Minnesota; en la Isla Shelter, Nueva York; y en el sur de Nueva Jersey. Setenta y cuatro adultos (25 machos, 49 hembras) fueron seguidos mediante telemetra desde 1995 hasta 1999. Las rutas de migracin se diferenciaron entre poblaciones pero no entre sexos. Los individuos de P. haliaetus del oeste, migraron a travs de California y en menor grado a travs de otros estados del oeste e invernaron en Mxico (88%), El Salvador (6%) y Honduras (6%) (25.9N a 13.0N y 108.3O a 87.3O). Las aves de Minnesota migraron a lo largo de tres rutas: (1) a travs del los E.E.U.U. centrales y luego a lo largo de la costa este de Mxico, (2) a lo largo del valle del Ro Mississippi y luego a travs del Golfo de Mxico, o (3) a travs del sur de los E.E.U.U. y luego a travs del Caribe. Las aves de la costa este, migraron a lo largo de la costa este de los E.E.U.U., por Florida y a travs del Caribe. Las aves del medio-oeste, invernaron desde Mxico hacia el sur hasta Bolivia (22.35N a 13.64S, y 91.75O a 61.76O), mientras que las aves de la costa este invernaron desde Florida hasta tan al sur como Brasil (27.48N a 18.5S y 80.4O a 57.29O). Las fechas de partida desde las reas de nidificacin difirieron significativamente entre sexos y regiones geogrficas, partiendo las hembras antes que los machos. Las aves del oeste viajaron distancias ms cortas que las aves del medio-oeste y del este. Considerando una misma poblacin, las hembras viajaron ms lejos que los machos, lo que result en que las hembras invernaron tpicamente ms al sur que los machos. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120086|Conservation-reliant species require continuing management to ensure their long-term persistence. We qualitatively assessed the extent of conservation reliance for 92 California bird taxa listed under federal or California endangered species acts or recognized as California bird species of special concern. Habitat loss and fragmentation are the major threats for over 90% of these taxa, whereas interactions with predators or brood parasites threaten less than half, and human actions imperil roughly 40%. Some form of habitat enhancement is proposed to reduce the threats for most taxa, reinforcing the value of habitat-conservation strategies. Protecting habitat for wetland taxa and restoring habitat for island taxa appear to be particularly costly actions. Importantly, the species of special concern are every bit as conservation reliant as are taxa listed as endangered or threatened; management of these yet-unlisted taxa may be especially effective in preventing them from slipping into a more precarious status. Consideration of the magnitude of threats together with the degree of conservation reliance may help in prioritizing taxa for conservation. The philosophy and practice of conservation and resource management must recognize that continuing actions will be required to maintain the viability of populations of a great many species.
10.2307/1370244|Body mass of female Hooded Mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) nesting in widely dispersed and newly erected wooden nest boxes in northcentral Minnesota was measured in 1982-1985. Median body mass during egg-laying was 635 g. Female mass during incubation varied significantly among years, but decreased monotonically at the same rate (1.0 g day
10.2307/1370482|We examined the response of a forest bird community to the presence of small openings created by patch clear-cutting 0.4-ha plots within an extensive northern hardwood forest. We conducted bird censuses (June) and habitat measurements (July-August) in 102 census plots at four distances from openings in 1991 and 1992. Of 19 habitat variables measured, none differed significantly among forest plots at any distance from clear-cuts. Thirty-five (70%) of 50 bird species encountered during censusing were Neotropical migrants. Bird species richness did not differ as a function of distance from openings. However, species composition in plots within openings was least similar to that in plots farthest into forest, and most similar between the two distance categories farthest from openings. The movement of several forest-interior species away from openings, the addition of early-successional colonists in openings, and a high abundance of interior-edge species near openings contributed to the difference in species composition between openings and forest plots. As a group, Neotropical forest-interior migrants were significantly less abundant in openings than at any distance from them, and less abundant 50 m from openings than 200 m from them. Neotropical interior-edge migrants were significantly more abundant 50 m from openings than at any other distance. Nearctic migrants and nonmigrants did not respond to the presence of small openings. Of three locally common avian nest predators, none became more abundant in the openings. Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater), also common locally, were never observed in or near the openings. Overall, bird species diversity increased in forested areas containing small openings due to the addition of edge and openarea nesters, but several forest-interior species were adversely affected by the presence of openings.
10.2307/1370241|During periods of inclement spring weather, Tree Swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) were observed foraging close to the surface of a series of experimentally manipulated ponds. Censuses of foraging swallows during these periods indicated that the use of ponds for foraging was positively affected by earlier additions of nutrients and the removal of fish from the ponds. Collections of emerging insects from these ponds indicated that nutrient additions and the removal of fish greatly increased the numbers of insects emerging from those ponds. The ability of Tree Swallows to exploit local concentrations of food may be critical to their ability to return to the breeding grounds before aerial insects are reliably available.
40306119|Counts of migrating raptors are done worldwide and are seen as a useful tool for hawk-population management. Rigorous monitoring of animal abundance, however, requires an evaluation of the detectability associated with the survey methods. Incorporating detectability into abundance estimates has never been done in the case of counts of migrating hawks. The goal of this study was to evaluate the extent to which variation in weather and raptor behavior can affect the detectability of migrating hawks and, consequently, the assessment of long-term population trends. We used a double-observer approach to evaluate detection probability at the
10.2307/1370413|We examined the seasonal movements of wing-tagged and radio-marked adult female Great Bustards Otis tarda in a population in northwestern Spain. Four different movement patterns were found: females that migrated between breeding and wintering areas (20%), females that only left their year-round home range area to mate (32%), females that migrated from a wintering-mating area to a nesting-summering area (16%), and females that stayed all year round within a relatively small home range area (32%). All females displayed fidelity to their nesting and wintering areas, and most also showed fidelity to their leks. Migration patterns were not affected either in timing or distance by breeding success. The maximum distance between natal and dispersal locations during their first year of life was significantly higher in migratory females than in sedentary ones. These patterns explained the seasonal variations in population numbers observed in the study area. Surveys showed that the number of females increased from 600-700 breeding birds, with 1,000-1,100 birds present from October to March.
10.2307/1366830| Adult Mallards wintering on the Southern High Plains of Texas lost weight and lipid reserves during and after periods of cold, stressful weather between December and February. Cold fronts and snowfall in November, when feeding conditions were best, did not affect gains in lipid and body weights. Protein levels were unaffected at all times. Survival potentials were estimated to be more or less equal among adult males and females and juvenile drakes at 0C, -10C, and -20C. Juvenile hens had the lowest survival potentials at the three temperatures. 
4500968| Nest predation is the most important factor limiting reproductive success of Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus), as it is for many bird species. Using program MARK, we examined patterns of daily nest survival in two widely separated populations of Willow Ptarmigan in Manitoba and British Columbia, Canada, by examining variation among years, over the course of the breeding season or in relation to the age of the nest, or age and condition of the female. At La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, daily nest survival increased linearly throughout the season, with moderate annual variation. Nests also had higher daily survival during laying and late in incubation, and lower survival early in incubation. At Chilkat Pass, British Columbia, daily nest survival varied strongly by year and nests had higher survival early and late in the season, but survival was not affected by the age of the nest. At both sites, but especially at Chilkat Pass, periods of lower nest survival tended to coincide with peak breeding periods, suggesting predators may adjust their search effort based on the likelihood of locating nests. Neither female age nor condition were included in the best models. Thus, in both ptarmigan populations, nest survival patterns appeared to be influenced more by ecological factors than by individual characteristics of breeding females. The extent of annual variation and seasonal patterns may have differed between sites due to the different predator and alternative prey communities. /// Como en muchas especies de aves, la depredacin de los nidos es el factor ms importante que limita el xito reproductivo de Lagopus lagopus. Utilizando el programa MARK, examinamos los patrones diarios de supervivencia de los nidos en dos poblaciones distantes de esta especie ubicadas en Manitoba y British Columbia, Canad. Examinamos la variacin en la supervivencia entre aos, durante el transcurso de la poca reproductiva y en relacin con la edad del nido y con la edad y la condicin de la hembra. En La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, la supervivencia diaria de los nidos increment linealmente a lo largo de la estacin, con pequeas variaciones anuales. Los nidos presentaron una mayor supervivencia diaria durante la postura y a fines de la incubacin, y menor supervivencia al inicio de la incubacin. En Chilkat Pass, British Columbia, la supervivencia diaria de los nidos vari entre aos y los nidos presentaron una mayor supervivencia en la parte inicial y final del perodo de incubacin, pero la supervivencia no fue afectada por la edad del nido. En ambos sitios, especialmente en Chilkat Pass, los perodos de menor supervivencia tendieron a coincidir con el pico de la poca reproductiva, lo que sugiere que los depredadores podran ajustar su esfuerzo de bsqueda con base en la probabilidad de encontrar nidos. Los mejores modelos no incluyeron la edad de las hembras ni su condicin. Por lo tanto, en ambas poblaciones, los patrones de supervivencia de los nidos parecieron estar ms influenciados por factores ecolgicos que por caractersticas particulares de las hembras reproductivas. El grado de variacin anual y los patrones estacionales podran haber diferido entre sitios como resultado de las diferencias en las comunidades de depredadores y presas alternativas. 
10.2307/1368304|We studied the breeding behavior of male Calliope Hummingbirds (Stellula calliope) in south-central British Columbia where they defended breeding territories from late April through late June each summer. We describe dive displays, hover displays, "buzzing," chasing, and vocalizing, and include a description of a complete mating sequence. Territorial males always performed dive displays in response to intrusions by female conspecifics. In contrast, they usually chased male conspecifics, although chases were occasionally preceded by dive displays. We conclude that dive displays play an important role in the courtship of Calliope Hummingbirds, although this does not preclude a possible role in aggressive interactions. We detected no seasonal trend in overall display activity, but at least in 1 year, more dive displays were given to males than to females early in the breeding season, and the reverse was true later in the season. There was a strong diel pattern in display behavior in that both dive and hover displays decreased gradually over the day. We discuss differences between the courtship behavior of Calliope Hummingbirds and Anna's Hummingbirds (Calypte anna).
10.2307/1370494| The genetic diversity and divergence of populations of Galpagos and Hawaiian Petrel (Pterodroma phaeopygia and sandwichensis, respectively) were investigated using allozyme electrophoresis. Within the Galpagos Islands, P. phaeopygia samples were monomorphic at 12 of 13 loci. The Hawaiian population P. sandwichensis was monomorphic at all 13 loci. One fixed allelic difference was found between P. phaeopygia and P. sandwichensis. Eleven loci were fixed for the same allele in both populations. Our results indicate that there has been no recent gene flow between Galpagos and Hawaiian Petrels, but gene flow occurs among Galpagos populations of P. phaeopygia. The existence of a unique genetic variant discriminating Galpagos and Hawaiian Petrels, in addition to previously documented morphological and behavioral differences, supports the recent elevation of these two taxa to species status. 
10.2307/1369708|Site fidelity has important implications for population genetics and dynamics. In birds, most studies have dealt with breeding ground fidelity, ignoring the fact that waterfowl mainly pair in winter or early spring. We used multiple observation data from a mark-resight study of Black Brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) to estimate fidelity to wintering and spring staging areas in Boundary Bay and Parksville-Qualicum, British Columbia. Site fidelity was low for winter residents but still indicated that Brant were faithful to Boundary Bay. Birds seen twice or more during any given winter had significantly higher site fidelity rates than those seen only once. The models for the spring period showed the presence of transients in both Boundary Bay and Qualicum. Birds seen for the first time in an area had a lower probability of returning to that area than birds seen in more than one year. Survival probability was significantly higher for Qualicum birds than for Boundary Bay birds. We concluded that prior knowledge of an area was an important determinant of site fidelity, and that low site fidelity levels were unlikely to lead to genetic substructuring of the population.
10.2307/1368103| The vasculature of skin and of peripheral heat exchangers in Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura, mass 1.4 kg) was studied in relation to peripheral temperatures and behavior at ambient temperatures (T<sub>a</sub>) from 10C through 50C. The head's unfeathered skin contains thin-walled, anastomosing veins near the epidermis. Metatarsal skin has a similar venous plexus, but cutaneous vasculature from the wing's underside does not. Skin temperature (T<sub>s</sub>) at the crown was close to T<sub>a</sub> but T<sub>s</sub> at the nape was close to body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>). At both skin sites T<sub>s</sub> changed with T<sub>a</sub>. Investigation of deeper vasculature showed that the head has bilateral ophthalmic retia that probably cool the brain and eyes, as in other birds. In the wing, the basilica vein branches to form a venae comitantes, a mesh of anastomosing veins that separately surrounds the radial and ulnar arteries. A bypass vein is also present. The temperature profiles along the 10-cm length of this humeral plexus became steeper with decreasing T<sub>a</sub>. At its distal end, temperature fell to 22C at 10C T<sub>a</sub>, with the steepest observed gradient being 3.0C/cm. In each leg, the tibial and fibular arteries closely contact two to four venae comitantes to form a simple rete, as in other species. This helps conserve body heat in cold but, as in the wing, is probably bypassed during heat stress. Behavior ranged from neck and wing retraction with a pale head and feet at low T<sub>a</sub>, to neck and wing extension with a deep red head and feet at high T<sub>a</sub>. Panting, gular flutter, and urohidrosis accompanied these responses at the highest T<sub>a</sub>S. 
10.2307/1369938| We used stable isotope analysis (SIA) and conventional techniques of diet assessment to determine marine trophic relationships in the Gulf of the Farallones, California, with an emphasis on marine birds. Stable-carbon ( <sup>13</sup>C) and nitrogen  <sup>15</sup>N isotopes were obtained from 98 tissue samples of 16 species representing primary and secondary consumers in 1993-1994. The values of  <sup>13</sup>C ranged from -20.1 in whole euphausiids (krill) to -15.0 in muscle of northern sea lions. Values of  <sup>15</sup>N showed step-wise trophic enrichment and ranged from 11.2 in euphausiids to 19.8 in sea lions. SIA of egg albumen from birds indicated reliance on zooplankton by Cassin's Auklet, Common Murre, and Western Gull, and on fish by Brandt's and Pelagic Cormorants, Rhinoceros Auklets, and Pigeon Guillemots during egg formation (April-May). However, analysis of prey brought to chicks during summer indicated the prevalence of fish in the diet of most seabirds, except Cassin's Auklet which fed primarily on krill. Results suggest a shift in trophic level and diet between spring and summer from krill to fish for Common Murres.  <sup>13</sup>C analysis confirmed that Brandt's Cormorants and northern sea lions feed in neritic habitats, whereas Cassin's and Rhinoceros Auklets foraged in epipelagic offshore waters. Our approach demonstrates the utility of combining both SIA and conventional dietary assessments to understand trophic relationships in dynamic marine ecosystems. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110110|Kleptoparasitism in birds has been the subject of much research, and the Bald Eagle (
90008437|Biologists now use a variety of survey platforms to assess the spatial distribution and abundance of marine birds, yet few attempts have been made to integrate data from multiple survey platforms to improve model accuracy or precision. We used density surface models (DSMs) to incorporate data from two survey platforms to predict the distribution and abundance of a diving marine bird, the Common Loon (
10.2307/1369756|We estimated density and characterized roosting habitat of Mexican Spotted Owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) in the Sierra Madre Occidental in southwestern Chihuahua, Mexico. Mean Spotted Owl density in Chihuahua (0.089 owls km<sup>-2</sup>) was approximately half that reported for Arizona and New Mexico. Owls were primarily (70%) roosting in medium-sized trees, which likely resulted from a paucity of mature and old-growth forest on our study area. Spotted Owl roosts had steeper slopes, more canopy layers, greater canopy closure, and greater live tree basal area than random sites. Management objectives should promote increasing canopy closure and understory diversity to improve habitats for Mexican Spotted Owls in northern Mexico.
10.2307/1367398|We used discriminant functions analysis to identify specimens of wood pewees (Contopus) from the Great Plains. Size and shape differences between C. virens and C. sordidulus are slight, but we found significant differences in multivariate space. Specimens from places where both species occur are not phenetically intermediate; hence we have no evidence of hybridization. Singing birds were morphologically like those of the species whose song they sang; hence we have no evidence of song switching. Our analyses show that C. virens occurs in summer as far west as Crockett Co., Texas; Morton Co., Kansas; and Phillips Co., Montana. Contopus sordidulus occurs in summer east to Phillips Co., Montana; it is a fairly common and regular migrant through extreme western Kansas.
4122519|There have been several studies on egg composition in birds, but none on woodpeckers. Woodpeckers (Picidae) have among the smallest eggs relative to their body size of any bird. I dissected Northern Flicker (Colaptes auratus) eggs into shell, yolk, and albumen components, and determined the lipid content of the yolk. The proportional size of the yolk in flicker eggs (16%) was among the smallest described for any bird. However, the yolk contained a similar amount of lipid (58%) as the yolks of other altricial species. The overall energy density in flicker eggs,
1370032| Information on age-specific survivorship is vital to understanding the dynamics of avian populations, but for many avian taxa, little is known about age-related variation in survival beyond the first year of life. We used capture-recapture data from a 16-year field study of female Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) breeding in south-central Saskatchewan to evaluate survival-rate differences between females marked in their second year (yearlings) and those marked as adults (2 years old). Because the breeding season is a period of high mortality for female ducks, we further sought to determine whether age differences in annual survival might vary with wetland conditions on the breeding grounds. Capture-recapture analysis based on extensions of the Cormack-Jolly-Seber model suggested that survival was best modeled to include effects of female age, with yearling females surviving at a higher annual rate (0.58  0.05 SE) than adult females (0.47  0.03 SE). However, additional evidence suggested that age differences in survival were most pronounced in years of low wetland abundance. Recapture rate (indicative perhaps of breeding propensity) was best modeled to include interactive effects of female age and wetland abundance, such that yearling females were recaptured at lower rates than adults in years of low wetland numbers. Collectively, our findings support the hypothesis that reduced breeding by younger females results in elevated probabilities of survival. Whether this pattern reflects reproductive constraint or trade-off decisions on the part of young birds remains to be determined. /// Para entender la dinmica de las poblaciones de aves es vital contar con informacin sobre la supervivencia especfica por edad, pero para muchos taxa de aves se conoce poco sobre la variacin en supervivencia en relacin a la edad luego del primer ao de vida. Utilizamos datos de 16 aos de trabajo de campo sobre captura-recaptura de hembras de Anas platyrhynchos que se reprodujeron en el centro-sur de Saskatchewan. Con estos datos evaluamos las diferencias en la tasa de supervivencia entre hembras marcadas en su segundo ao (hembras aales) y aquellas marcadas como adultos (2 aos de edad). Debido a que la estacin reproductiva es un perodo de alta mortalidad para las hembras, queramos adems determinar si las diferencias de edad en la supervivencia anual variaban en relacin a las condiciones de las reas reproductivas de los humedales. Los anlisis de captura-recaptura basados en extensiones del modelo de Cormack-Jolly-Seber sugirieron que la supervivencia era modelada mejor al incluir los efectos de la edad de la hembra, con una tasa anual de supervivencia ms alta para hembras aales (0.58  0.05 EE) que para hembras adultas (0.47  0.03 EE). Sin embargo, evidencia adicional sugiri que las diferencias en la supervivencia por edad fueron ms pronunciadas en los aos con menor nmero de humedales. La tasa de recaptura (tal vez indicativa de la predisposicin a reproducirse) fue modelada mejor al incluir los efectos de la interaccin entre edad de la hembra y abundancia de los humedales. De este modo, las hembras aales fueron recapturadas a una tasa menor que las hembras adultas en aos con escaso nmero de humedales. Colectivamente, nuestros resultados apoyan la hiptesis de que una reduccin en la reproduccin por parte de las hembras ms jvenes da como resultado un aumento en su probabilidad de supervivencia. An queda por determinar en las aves jvenes si este patrn refleja limitantes reproductivas o decisiones de compromiso. 
10.2307/1368759|From data in the literature an attempt is made to provide a general overview of the composition of bird eggs and how individual components are related to the relative yolk content, which varies from about 15% in some Sulidae to 69% in the Kiwi (Apteryx). Regression equations are given for the relative water content of the fresh egg, albumen, and yolk, the solid and lipid fractions of egg content, and the calculated caloric density of egg content as a function of relative yolk content. As relative yolk content of eggs increases among 127 species representing 44 families, relative water content decreases. These changes are related to a progressive increase in hatchling maturity from altricial to precocial birds according to the classification of Nice (1962). Certain exceptions to this rule are discussed, namely, eggs of the pelagic feeding Procellariiformes and offshore-feeding terns. Both groups have reduced their clutch to a single egg, have unusually long incubation and fledging periods, and larger relative yolk content than predicted. A general model of egg components is presented which relates the ash, carbohydrate, protein, lipid, water, and caloric content to the relative amount of yolk in the freshly laid egg. Lipids make up 58% of all yolk solids, which have an energy content of 33 kJ g<sup>-1</sup>; total solids in egg contents have an average energy content of 29 kJ g<sup>-1</sup>. An overview shows how the initial solids and caloric contents are redistributed in the yolk-free neonate and the yolk reserve as well as estimates of the solids and caloric loss during development; energy cost of development is similar in all birds and amounts to ca. 36% of the initial energy content of fresh eggs.
10.1525/cond.2011.090212|We evaluated hypotheses that seek to explain breeding strategies of the Louisiana Waterthrush (
10.2307/1370061|We examined factors affecting renesting rates in a population of Kentish Plovers (Charadrius alexandrinus) in southern Spain over six breeding seasons. We show that renesting was mainly constrained by time, and not by female body condition. Renesting partially compensated for initial clutch losses. The interval from loss of the first clutch to initiation of the replacement clutch was not affected by the number of days of incubation preceding nest loss. Renesting plovers moved considerable distances from first nests. Distances moved between nesting attempts by pairs that had lost chicks were similar to those of pairs that lost eggs. Nest cover did not differ between first and second nests when the first nest was successful, but it was greater in second nests when the first nest was unsuccessful. Yet, nest cover had no influence on the fate of such replacement clutches, probably due to a high diversity of predators at our study site. Females that laid replacement clutches did not delay breeding or breed less frequently in years after they had laid replacement clutches. Even when the success of replacement clutches is moderate, this breeding strategy may be important in accounting for individual lifetime productivity, especially when nest predation is high, as in the studied population.
10.1525/cond.2010.090215|The Black Oystercatcher (
10.1525/cond.2011.090201|The role of food in limiting migratory birds during the nonbreeding period is poorly understood, in part because of the complexities of quantifying food availability and diet. We tracked overwinter changes in the availability of arthropods and fruits, the primary winter foods of the Hermit Thrush (
10.2307/1369957|We studied the genetic mating system of the Dusky Antbird (Cercomacra tyrannina) in Panama using multilocus DNA fingerprinting. We found no evidence of extra-pair fertilization (EPF) in 15 offspring of nine families. We also found no evidence of intra-specific brood parasitism (ISBP) for 13 offspring in eight families.
10.2307/1370414|A population of individually marked Harlequin Ducks (Histrionicus histrionicus) at White Rock, British Columbia, Canada was examined to measure the degree of population differentiation among birds which pair during the winter months. This required an understanding of the patterns of emigration among wintering sites in different segments of the population. Some juveniles arrived at the wintering grounds accompanied by their mothers, thus initially arriving into the same winter population as their parents. Young males were more likely than young females to disperse during the first two years of life. Adult males had higher local survival than adult females during the summer months, probably because of the greater mortality risks to nesting females. During the nonbreeding seasons, local survival was the same in both sexes. Paired males had a local survival of more than 90%, suggesting both high survival and strong philopatry. Unpaired males had a lower local survival rate, suggesting they have higher mortality and/or emigration rates. Young females had the same local survival rate as adult females, suggesting that they did not disperse during the winter. These winter philopatry patterns are similar to the general pattern of breeding philopatry in waterfowl, with females showing stronger philopatry than males, and paired adults stronger philopatry than unpaired and young birds. The dispersal of young males makes local population differentiation unlikely in this species.
10.2307/1367954| The 1982-1983 El Nio was associated with higher than normal sea surface temperatures in Oregon during much of the 1983 seabird breeding season. Concurrently, reproductive success was reduced in at least three species of marine birds. Brandt's (Phalacrocorax penicillatus) and Pelagic cormorants (P. pelagicus) fledged fewer young per nest in 1983 than they did in previous years. Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba) mortality was high before the onset of nesting, but those birds that nested in the Coos estuary were as successful at raising chicks in 1983 as they had been in 1982. The number of Common Murre (Uria aalge) chicks that left the breeding sites in 1983 was considerably lower than in 1982. Survival of adult murres was also affected, as significantly more were found dead on the beach during the 1983 breeding season. 
10.1525/cond.2013.120110|We examined two measures of immune function (bactericidal capacity of the blood plasma and a pro-inflammatory response to an injection of phytohemagglutinin) and baseline levels of corticosterone in wild adult male Brown-headed Cowbirds (
40072337|Avian point counts for population monitoring are often collected over a short timespan (e.g., 3-5 years). We examined whether power was adequate (power >0.80) in short-duration studies to warrant the calculation of trend estimates. We modeled power to detect trends in abundance indices of eight bird species occurring across three floodplain habitats (wet prairie, early successional forest, and mature forest) as a function of trend magnitude, sample size, and species-specific sampling and among-year variance components. Point counts (5 min) were collected from 365 locations distributed among 10 study sites along the lower Missouri River; counts were collected over the period 2002 to 2004. For all study species, power appeared adequate to detect trends in studies of short duration (three years) at a single site when exponential declines were relatively large in magnitude (more than -5% year) and the sample of point counts per year was 30. Efforts to monitor avian trends with point counts in small managed lands (i.e., refuges and parks) should recognize this sample size restriction by including point counts from offsite locations as a means of obtaining sufficient numbers of samples per strata. Trends of less than -5% year are not likely to be consistently detected for most species over the short term, but short-term monitoring may still be useful as the basis for comparisons with future surveys. /// Generalmente los conteos en puntos para monitorear poblaciones de aves son realizados durante periodos de tiempo cortos (e.g., 3-5 aos). Examinamos si el poder para calcular estimaciones de tendencias era adecuado (poder 0.80) en estudios de corta duracin. Modelamos el poder para detectar tendencias utilizando ndices de abundancia de ocho especies de aves que se distribuyen en hbitats de planicies inundables (praderas inundadas, bosques en estado sucesional temprano y bosques maduros), como funcin de la magnitud de la tendencia, tamao muestral y componentes de la varianza asociados al muestreo de cada especie y entre aos. Los puntos de conteo (5 min) correspondieron a 365 localidades distribuidas en 10 sitios de estudio ubicados a lo largo de la parte baja del Ro Missouri; los conteos fueron realizados entre los aos 2002 y 2004. Para todas las especies estudiadas, el poder pareci ser adecuado como para detectar tendencias en estudios de corta duracin (tres aos) en un sitio nico de muestreo, pero slo cuando las disminuciones exponenciales fueron relativamente grandes en magnitud (ms de -5% ao) y la muestra de puntos de conteo por ao fue 30. Los esfuerzos para monitorear las tendencias de las poblaciones de aves con puntos de conteo en reas manejadas pequeas (i.e., refugios y parques) deben reconocer estas restricciones impuestas por el tamao de muestreo. Se deben incluir puntos de conteo que se encuentren fuera del rea para obtener un nmero suficiente de muestras por estrato. Para la mayoria de las especies, es menos probable detectar consistentemente tendencias de menos de -5% ao durante periodos cortos. Sin embargo, el monitoreo de corta duratin puede ser til como base para comparaciones con muestreos en aos futuros.
1370674| The ability to satisfy the energy requirements of migration and to cope with problems that arise en route is likely to be age dependent. We studied hatch-year (HY) and after-hatch-year (AHY) Gray Catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis) to determine if differences in foraging efficiency and molt affected fat deposition prior to autumn migration. Hatch-year catbirds were less efficient foragers than AHY catbirds; however, efficiency improved with age to the extent that many HY catbirds are probably as efficient as AHY birds by the time they commence migration. We discovered age-dependent patterns of fat deposition, which probably resulted from differences in foraging efficiency and molt timing. Hatch-year catbirds began to deposit fat sooner than AHY catbirds but did so more slowly throughout the postbreeding and premigratory phases of the annual cycle. Adult catbirds did not become hyperphagic until they neared the completion of their molt, then deposited fat rapidly. /// Es probable que la habilidad de satisfacer los requerimientos energticos de la migracin y de sobrellevar problemas surgidos durante sta, est relacionada con la edad. Estudiamos individuos de la especie Dumetella carolinensis en su ao de eclosin (AE) y de ms de un ao post-eclosin (PAE) para determinar si las diferencias en la eficiencia de forrajeo y en muda afectan el almacenamiento de grasas antes de la migracin otoal. Las aves AE forrajearon menos eficientemente que las PAE, pero la eficiencia aument con la edad de manera que muchas aves AE eran probablemente tan eficientes como las PAE en el momento en que iniciaron la migracin. Descubrimos patrones dependientes de la edad en el almacenamiento de grasas, que probablemente fueron el resultado de las diferencias en la eficiencia de forrajeo y el momento de la muda. Los individuos AE comenzaron a almacenar grasas antes que los PAE, pero lo hicieron a una tasa menor a lo largo de las fases postreproductiva y premigratoria del ciclo anual. En cambio, las aves adultas no se volvieron hiperfgicas hasta que estaban cerca de completar la muda; luego, almacenaron grasas rpidamente. 
40072383|Urbanization leads to the biotic homogenization of global avifauna. We hypothesized that urbanization acts as a filter on species traits and, therefore, that urban passerines share biological traits explaining their capacity to tolerate urban constraints. We investigated 18 biological traits of passerines related to their general biology, distribution, breeding, and morphometry. In a regional analysis conducted on passerine data from one Swiss and 11 French cities (regional analysis), we identified urban adapters (tolerant species) and urban avoiders (intolerant species), and compared their traits. In a local analysis conducted on passerine data of 13 woodlands located along a short rural-urban gradient, we identified groups of species associated with particular vegetation structures within or particular landscape structures around woodlands. We associated each of these species groups with a tolerance level to urbanization and compared their traits. Regional analysis revealed that urban adapters prefer forest environments, are sedentary, omnivorous, widely distributed, high-nesters with large wingspans. Urban avoiders seem to allocate more energy to reproduction than do urban adapters, to the detriment of adaptation to new environments such as urban areas. Local analysis did not reveal any link between traits and species tolerance levels. At large spatial scales, urbanization seems therefore to act as a filter on species traits. However, the urban constraints that filter species at such large scales do not seem to be the same ones that determine species distribution at local scales. Analyses of traits are powerful tools to understanding regional community composition between urban and rural areas.
4151090| We investigated nest-hole excavation by the Red-naped Sapsucker (Syphrapicus nuchalis) in aspen (Populus tremuloides) woodlands in western Colorado. Sapsuckers excavate nest cavities primarily in aspens infected with a heartwood rot fungus (Phellinus tremulae), which softens the heartwood of infected trees. We assessed the interior condition of fungus-infected aspen trunks by extracting wood samples with an increment corer to determine whether sapsuckers chose nest-hole locations based on the extent of healthy sapwood remaining. Comparing fungus-infected trees with and without cavities, cavity-bearing trees had thinner healthy sapwood. The depth of healthy sapwood also varied with compass direction, being thinnest on the south sides of fungus-infected aspens. Cavity entrance orientations were significantly biased to the southsoutheast, corresponding with the directional bias in heartwood rot. These results suggest that the depth of healthy sapwood, and hence excavation effort, may be important in determining nest hole location for the Red-naped Sapsucker. /// Investigamos la excavacin de cavidades de nidificacin por parte de Syphrapicus nuchalis en bosques de Populus tremuloides en el oeste de Colorado. Esta especie excava las cavidades principalmente en rboles infectados con el hongo Phellinus tremulae, el cual ablanda la madera. Evaluamos la condicin interna de los troncos de los rboles infectados mediante la extraccin de muestras de madera con un barreno de incremento para determinar si las aves eligen la localizacin de las cavidades basadas en la magnitud de restos de madera saludable. Comparando los rboles infectados con hongos con y sin cavidades, los rboles que presentaron cavidades tuvieron una madera saludable ms delgada. La profundidad de la madera saludable tambin vari con la orientacin cardinal, siendo ms delgada en las caras sur de los rboles infectados. La orientacin de la entrada de las cavidades estuvo significativamente sesgada hacia el sur-sureste, correspondiendo con el sesgo direccional del hongo. Estos resultados sugieren que la profundidad de la madera saludable, y por ende el esfuerzo de excavacin, pueden ser importantes para determinar la localizacin de las cavidades de nidificacin en S. nuchalis. 
10.2307/1368228| Structure and conductance of eggshells of Adelie Penguins, Pygoscelis adeliae, were studied to address the question: How is the eggshell adapted to cope with the extreme aridity of the Antarctic, and in particular, what is the significance and function of the organic cuticle on the eggshell? Adelie Penguin shell structure has a basic avian pattern with relatively straight, unbranched pores that are occluded by an organic cuticle on the outside of the shell. Mean shell conductance of 15.4 mg  day
4500960| Of the world's five flamingo species, the rarest and least known are the Puna Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus jamesi) and the Andean Flamingo (P. andinus). These two species coexist with the more common Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis) throughout much of their range. We conducted four simultaneous surveys from 1997 to 2001 (two in summer and two in winter) to estimate the distribution and abundance of all three species in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, and Peru, at a regional scale. Of 224 wetlands surveyed, 179 had flamingos; 63% of these were in the high Andes (above 4000 m), 25% were in the puna (3000 to 4000 m), and the remainder were in lowlands (below 3000 m). Maximum counts were 64 000 Puna Flamingos (summer 1998), 34 000 Andean Flamingos (summer 1997), and 83 000 Chilean Flamingos (winter 1998). In summer, Puna Flamingos congregated at wetlands in the high Andes, with 50% of the population in just three lakes: Colorada, Grande, and Vilama. Andean Flamingos were more uniformly distributed across a broader elevational range (2500 m), and Chilean Flamingos showed a heterogeneous distribution pattern. In winter, all species moved to lower latitudes within the high Andes and to lower altitudes on the central plains of Argentina. The most important nesting wetlands were Colorada, in Bolivia, for the Puna Flamingo, Surire and Atacama, in Chile, for the Andean Flamingo, and Surire for the Chilean Flamingo. We recommend continued monitoring through simultaneous summer surveys, and a conservation strategy that considers the large spatial and temporal scales at which these species operate, including their seasonal migrations. /// De las cinco especies de flamencos en el mundo, las ms raras y menos conocidas son el Phoenicoparrus jamesi y el P. andinus, las cuales coexisten con el Phoenicopterus chilensis en gran parte de su distribucin. Nosotros llevamos a cabo cuatro relevamientos simultneos desde 1997 al 2001 (dos en verano y dos en invierno), para estimar la distribucin y abundancia de tres especies de flamencos en Argentina, Bolivia, Chile y Per, a una escala regional. De 224 humedales relevados, 179 tenan flamencos; 63% de estos se encontraron en los Altos Andes (por encima de los 4000 m), 25% en la Puna (3000 a 4000 m), y los restantes en tierras bajas (por debajo de 3000 m). Los conteos mximos fueron, 64 000 Phoenicoparrus jamesi (verano de 1998), 34 000 P. andinus (verano de 1997), y 83 000 Phoenicopterus chilensis (invierno de 1998). En verano, los Phoenicoparrus jamesi se congregaron en humedales de los Altos Andes, con el 50% de su poblacin en solo tres lagos: Colorada, Grande y Vilama; el P. andinus estuvo ms uniformemente distribuido a lo largo de un rango altitudinal (2500 m), y el Phoenicopterus chilensis mostr un patrn ms heterogeneo. En invierno, todas las especies se movieron a latitudes ms bajas dentro de los Altos Andes y a altitudes ms bajas en las planicies centrales de Argentina. Los humedales ms importantes de nidificacin fueron Colorada, en Bolivia, para el Phoenicoparrus jamesi, Surire y Atacama, en Chile, para el P. andinus y Surire para el Phoenicopterus chilensis. Recomendamos continuar los manitoreos a travs de relevamientos estivales simultneos, y una estratgia de conservacin que considere la gran escala espacial y temporal a la que estas especies operan, incluyendo sus migraciones. 
10.1525/cond.2012.110022|While researchers have made great progress investigating the molt of temperate-zone birds, few studies have examined the molt of tropical birds. We carried out this study in 2009 and 2010 in the cerrado biome, Distrito Federal, Brazil. On the basis of 334 birds captured with mist nets, we describe the timing, duration, and intensity of the flight-feather molt in eight species. Molt scores indicated the direction of replacement and points where molt series started and ended. The innermost primary usually was the first flight feather to drop, and primaries were replaced proximal to distal. Secondaries were replaced in two series, and S6 or S5 typically was the last remex to complete growth. Rectrices were replaced in a single series on each side, from R1 (central) to R6 (lateral). All species replaced their primaries according to the rules followed by most passerines. The White-eared Puffbird (
10.2307/1368949|During 1985 and 1986 I studied interspecific brood parasitism among seven species of waterfowl nesting on 36 islands and 24 peninsulas in central North Dakota. On islands, 40% of 178 nests were parasitized with an average of 4.3 parasitic eggs, and on peninsulas 2% of 275 nests were parasitized with an average of 2.2 parasitic eggs. Redheads (Aythya americana) were the primary parasite, adding eggs to 92% of all parasitized nests. Species nesting in open cover were parasitized at a higher rate than species nesting in dense cover. Nests with parasitic eggs had fewer host eggs and there was a negative association between the number of parasitic eggs and the success of host eggs. Parasitized nests had lower success, but additional parasitic eggs had no added influence on nest success. Interspecific brood parasitism had significant negative effects on dabbling ducks on islands but Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis) were little affected. Even so, the number of young hatched per nest was much higher on islands because of the high loss of eggs to predators on the mainland. Parasitic eggs were deposited during the middle of the nesting season, but the peak of parasitic laying occurred before the peak of normal nesting.
10.2307/1367880|Xantus' Murrelets (Synthliboramphus [Endomychura] hypoleucus) were studied on Santa Barbara Island, California from 1975 to 1979. Clutch initiation occurred from March to June and usually peaked in April. The two-egg clutch was 45% of the female's weight. Eggs were laid eight days apart. Both sexes shared duties during a 34-day incubation period; partners relieved one another every three to four days. Eggs were typically left unattended in the interval between laying of successive eggs, immediately after clutch completion, and sporadically during incubation. Breeders and non-breeders of both sexes followed similar patterns of weight change, reflecting similar patterns of colony attendance; murrelets lost weight after the egg-laying period, then gradually gained weight through the rest of the breeding season. The downy young left the nest only two nights after hatching, unfed and weighing less than 30 g. Chicks and their parents apparently moved well offshore their first night at sea. Even though most murrelets on Santa Barbara nested in concealed rock crevices, irregular nest attendance patterns left eggs vulnerable to predation, resulting in the loss of 44% of the eggs laid. Predation by deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) is currently the greatest risk to the breeding of these murrelets on Santa Barbara Island.
10.2307/1370154|From 1991 to 1996 we investigated how the breeding cycle of King Penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus, in a small colony at South Georgia, was affected by variation in food availability between years. During the first (1992) and third (1996) of the three successful cycles studied, food was plentiful, whereas food availability was lower during the second cycle (1994). We found (1) the duration of breeding was longer (455 days) in 1994 compared to 1992 (437 days) and 1996 (438 days), (2) fewer birds made late breeding attempts in 1994 (38%) than in 1992 (88%) and 1996 (70%), and (3) those birds that made late attempts laid their egg later in 1994 (mean 16 March) compared to 1992 (19 February) and 1996 (21 February). We conclude that the breeding timetable changed in response both to the reduced availability of food in 1994 and to the subsequent improved conditions in 1996. This suggests that annual versus biennial breeding in King Penguins is dependent on the availability of food and the condition of the birds.
1369842| We measured an index of Red-shouldered Hawk (Buteo lineatus) abundance along streams in southern Ohio and related differences in abundance index to landscape-scale habitat characteristics within the surveyed areas. Fifteen study sites, each a 5.8-km reach of a permanent stream, were surveyed four times using broadcasts of Red-shouldered Hawk calls and Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) calls. We determined the landcover types in a corridor surrounding each surveyed area using a GIS landcover data grid, and counted the number of small ponds within each corridor. We calculated hawk response rate for each species as the mean number of visual or aural detections per survey. Red-shouldered Hawk response rate was inversely correlated to Red-tailed Hawk response rate (r = -0.52, P < 0.04), and was positively correlated to the number of small ponds within each stream corridor (r = 0.77, P < 0.01), suggesting that the number of small ponds was an important factor associated with Red-shouldered Hawk abundance. /// Calculamos un ndice de abundancia de Buteo lineatus a lo largo de varios arroyos en el sur de Ohio y relacionamos las diferencias en este ndice con caractersticas del hbitat a escala del paisaje de las reas censadas. Trabajamos en 15 sitios (cada uno comprendiendo 5.8 km alrededor de un arroyo permanente), que fueron censados cuatro veces reproduciendo vocalizaciones de B. lineatus y B. jamaicensis. Determinamos el tipo de uso de la tierra en un corredor alrededor de cada rea censada utilizando un sistema de informacin geogrfica y contamos el nmero de pequeos estanques al interior de cada corredor. Calculamos la tasa de respuesta de las dos especies de gavilanes como el nmero promedio de detecciones visuales o auditivas por censo. La tasa de respuesta de B. lineatus se correlacion negativamente con la tasa de respuesta de B. jamaicensis (r = -0.52, P < 0.04) y positivamente con el nmero de estanques dentro de cada corredor (r = 0.77, P < 0.01). Los resultados sugieren que el nmero de estanques es un factor importante asociado a la abundancia de B. lineatus. 
10.2307/1368909|During 1974 through 1983, we investigated the breeding biology of the Rhinoceros Auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata) at three main colony sites on the coast of Washington: Destruction Island (offshore) and Protection and Smith islands (inland islands of the Strait of Juan de Fuca). Average burrow densities were higher offshore, where the auklets nested on shrub-covered slopes; inland auklets nested on grassy slopes and level areas. Egg-laying patterns varied among years and populations, although initiation dates on all islands were similar. The incubation periods averaged 45 days and ranged from 39 to 52 days. Chicks were brooded, on average, for 3.9 days (range zero to 9 days). On Protection Island, early-hatched young grew more rapidly than chicks hatched at a later date. Chicks on offshore islands were fed a variety of fish, whereas those on inland islands were fed primarily two species. The inland chicks were fed heavier fish loads, reached heavier peak body weights, and were heavier when they fledged than were offshore chicks. Breeding success was higher on the inland colony sites.
10.2307/1368432|Audubon's Hermit Thrushes (Catharus guttatus auduboni) in central Arizona have a low nesting success (7 to 20%) due almost exclusively to nest predation. We examine the sites chosen for nesting and compare them to nonuse sites randomly selected within the vegetation types associated with nests. Hermit Thrush nest sites differ from nonuse sites primarily in that nest sites have more small (1- to 3-m tall) white firs (Abies concolor) in the patch (5-m radius circle) surrounding the nest. Hermit Thrushes nest almost exclusively in small white firs and they do not forage in or near them. Hermit Thrushes may select nest sites that have a large number of other potential nest sites (i.e., small white firs) near the nest because predation risk is thereby reduced. Indeed, nests with a high probability of predation were surrounded by a lower density of small white firs than more successful nests. However, low predation nests also were more concealed than high predation nests. Nest-site selection appears to be a function of characteristics in the immediate vicinity of the nest (concealment, overhead cover, nest orientation), but also on a larger scale surrounding the nest. Consideration of nest-site selection on this larger scale may cast light on the question of whether nest sites limit territory and habitat selection by birds.
10.2307/1368720|The rates at which birds visit fruiting individuals of Allophylus edulis (Sapindaceae) differ substantially among trees. Such avian feeding preferences are well-known, but usually involve fruits and trees of different species. Factors controlling avian preferences for particular trees in a population of conspecifics are generally undocumented. To address this issue, I attempted to correlate rates at which individuals birds and species fed in trees of Allophylus with 27 fruit or plant characteristics. Birds that swallow fruits whole were considered separately from those that feed in other ways. Plant characters were selected on the basis of their potential influence on feeding efficiency or predation risk, assuming that birds would select feeding trees so as to maximize the net rate of energy or nutrient intake and to minimize predation. Correlations were found between feeding visits by some groups of birds and percent water in the pulp, milligrams of mineral ash in the pulp, and crop size. No character was correlated with feeding visits by all groups of birds in both years of the study. The correlations with water and mineral ash are unexplained and may be artifacts. The correlation with crop size may represent a tactic to minimize predation.
3247789| The Mountain Chickadee (Poecile gambeli) and the Juniper Titmouse (Baeolophus ridgwayi) are closely related, ecologically similar passerines sympatric in portions of their range. However, Mountain Chickadees prefer higher altitude, cooler habitats than Juniper Titmice. We measured oxygen consumption, evaporative water loss, body temperature, and thermal conductance on seasonally acclimatized individuals to determine if thermoregulatory differences correlate with habitat preference. The Mountain Chickadee's lower critical temperature was 4.2 lower than the Juniper Titmouse's in summer and 2.4C lower in winter. Thermal conductance decreased significantly in winter relative to summer in Mountain Chickadees but not in Juniper Titmice. The Mountain Chickadee's upper critical temperature was 4.2C lower than the Juniper Titmouse's in summer. Also in summer, Mountain Chickadees had significantly higher body temperature above the upper critical temperature than Juniper Titmice, indicating less heat tolerance. The overall metabolic response to temperature in these two species suggests that physiology plays a role in maintaining their habitat segregation. /// Las aves paserinas Poecile gambeli y Baeolophus ridgwayi, cercanamente emparentadas y ecolgicamente similares, se distribuyen de modo simptrico en partes de sus rangos. Sin embrago, P. gambeli prefiere ambientes ms elevados y frescos que B. ridgwayi. Medimos el consumo de oxgeno, la prdida de agua por evaporacin, la temperatura corporal y la conductancia trmica en individuos aclimatados estacionalmente para determinar si las diferencias en termo-regulacin se correlacionan con la preferencia de hbitat. La temperatura crtica menor de P. gambeli fue 4.2C ms baja que la de B. ridgwayi en el verano y 2.4C ms baja en el invierno. La conductancia trmica disminuy significativamente en el invierno en relacin al verano en P. gambeli pero no en B. ridgwayi. La temperatura crtica mayor de P. gambeli fue 4.2C ms baja que la de B. ridgwayi en el verano. Tambin en el verano, P. gambeli tuvo una temperatura corporal significativamente mayor, por arriba del lmite superior de temperatura crtica, que la de B. ridgwayi, indicando menor tolerancia al calor. La respuesta metablica global a la temperatura en estas dos especies sugiere que la fisiologa juega un rol importante en mantener la segregacin de sus ambientes. 
1370374| We studied movements, habitat use, and survival rates of 49 radio-marked Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) overwintering along the southern Laguna Madre of Texas during 1997-1998. Plovers exhibited strong site fidelity to nonbreeding areas throughout fall, winter, and spring. Mean home-range size of plovers (based on 95% of locations) was 12.6 km<sup>2</sup> with a mean core area (50% of locations) of 2.9 km<sup>2</sup>. Seasonal home-range size and core areas differed only between fall and winter; home-range and core areas were smaller in fall than winter. Mean linear distance moved was 3.3 km; fall movements were smaller than those made in winter and spring. Habitat use varied seasonally: plovers used algal flats more during fall and spring than during winter; plovers used exposed sand flats more often during winter than in fall and spring. We recorded no mortality of radio-marked birds. High rates of survival and strong site fidelity throughout the nonbreeding period suggest that this period of the annual cycle may not contribute to the declining population size for Piping Plovers wintering in this region. However, because Piping Plovers spend most of the annual cycle on nonbreeding areas, they are likely to be negatively affected by loss of those sites, emphasizing the importance of conserving nonbreeding areas for this threatened and endangered species. /// Hemos estudiado desplazamientos, uso de habitats, e ndices de sobrevivencia de 49 Chichicuilotes (Charadrius melodus) con radio-transmisores que han sobre-invernado a lo largo del Sur de la Laguna Madre de Texas durante 1997-1998. Los Chichicuilotes exhiben una fuerte fidelidad hacia sitios de reas de no-apareamiento desde el otoo y el invierno hasta la primavera. La medida promedio del rango de habitat de los Chichicuilotes (basadon en el 95% de los sitios) fue 12.6 km<sup>2</sup> con una rea central promedio (50% de los sitios) de 2.9 km<sup>2</sup>. La medida del rango de habitat estacionaria y las reas centrales diferieron nicamente entre otoo e invierno; el rango de hbitat y las reas centrales resultaron ms pequeas en el otoo que en el invierno. La distancia lineal promedio fue de 3.3 km; los desplazamientos otoales resultaron ms pequeos que aquellos hechos en el invierno y en la primavera. El uso del hbitat vari por estaciones: los Chichicuilotes utilizaron planos algceos ms durante el otoo y la primavera que durante el invierno; los Chichicuilotes utilizaron planos arenosos expuestos con ms frecuencia durante el invierno que en el otoo y la primavera. No registramos mortalidad alguna de aves con radio-indicador. Los altos ndices de sobrevivencia y la fuerte fidelidad a sitios a lo largo del periodo de no-apareamiento sugiere que este periodo del ciclo anual podra no contribuir a un descenso en la medida poblacional de Chichicuilotes invernando en esta regin. Sin embargo, por la razn de que los Chichicuilotes pasan la mayora del ciclo anual en reas de no-apareamiento, son propensos a ser negativamente afectados por la perdida de esos sitios, enfatizando la importancia de conservar reas de no-apareamiento para esta especie amenazada y en peligro de extincin. 
10.2307/1369213| We studied carcass mass, composition, and gut morphology of Mottled Ducks (Anas fulvigula) during fall (1 October-16 November) and winter (17 November-28 February) in southwestern Louisiana during 1987-1988 and 1988-1989. During fall, Mottled Ducks replaced mass and endogenous reserves used during reproduction and molt. From fall through late winter, carcass mass of adult male Mottled Ducks increased 92-115 g, while carcass mass of adult females increased 120 g. Lipid mass of adult males increased 55 g and 71 g from fall through middle winter in 1987-1988 and 1988-1989, respectively. Lipid stores of adult females increased 85 g from fall through late winter. Carcass protein content of both sexes generally did not differ among winter periods within years, but some differences of up to 39 g occurred between years. These yearly differences were associated with changes in gizzard mass and intestine length, and probably were related to different habitat conditions and/or diets. Immature Mottled Ducks generally exhibited patterns in mass, composition, and gut morphology similar to adults. We suggest that mass and lipid patterns in fall and winter reflect the nonmigratory status of Mottled Ducks and earlier breeding opportunities due to the mild climate in coastal Louisiana. 
4151051| We compared incubation and fledging times between large (>2 kg) migrating and sedentary birds. We found that while length of incubation period does not differ between migrants and nonmigrants, fledging period is significantly shorter in the former. This pattern is apparent in the class as a whole, as well as within orders, families, and genera. Additional, albeit weak, evidence suggests that clutch sizes of migrants are smaller than those of closely related resident birds. We hypothesize that the need to migrate constrains the length of developmental period of large migrating birds, especially in species that undertake long-distance migration. /// Comparamos los tiempos de incubacin y emplumamiento entre ayes grandes (>2 kg) migratorias y sedentarias. Encontramos que mientras la longitud del perodo de incubacin no difiere entre migrantes y no migrantes, el perodo de emplumamiento es significativamente ms corto en las migrantes. Este patrn resulta evidente a nivel de toda la clase, as como al interior de rdenes, familias y gneros. Existe evidencia adicional, aunque dbil, que sugiere que las nidadas de las migrantes son ms pequeas que las de ayes residentes estrechamente relacionadas. Proponemos la hiptesis de que la necesidad de migrar limita la longitud del perodo de desarrollo de las ayes migrantes grandes, especialmente en las especies que realizan migraciones a travs de grandes distancias. 
90008446|Events during one stage of the annual life cycle of migratory birds can have lasting (i.e. carry-over) effects that influence demographic parameters in subsequent seasons. We studied migratory connectivity and potential carry-over effects in a declining population of sea ducks. We measured stable isotope values of carbon (
1370579| Least Flycatchers (Empidonax minimus) often aggregate their territories, even though advantages of clustering are not apparent. In north-central Minnesota we investigated four potential reasons for clustered nesting in Least Flycatchers: (1) predator deterrence, (2) preferred habitat features, (3) greater food availability, and (4) competitive exclusion. In 1995 and 1996 we compared arthropod abundance, forest structure, and plant species composition inside and outside nine Least Flycatcher clusters. We also compared the response of forest birds to the presentation of a predator (Broad-winged Hawk [Buteo platypterus]), and used point counts to detect any exclusion of potential predators or competitors from the clusters. The predator deterrence hypothesis received the strongest support. In response to hawk presentations inside the clusters, 2.8 times more birds (all species combined) gave 5.8 times more alarm calls than outside, with differences due entirely to the presence of Least Flycatchers. In addition, birds responded to the hawk more quickly inside clusters. Minor differences in habitat seemed insufficient to produce such tight clustering. Neither all arthropods combined nor any of the five orders most frequently caught in sticky traps indicated greater food availability inside the clusters. Black-throated Green Warblers (Dendroica virens) were detected 2.2 to 5.4 times less frequently inside the clusters than outside, but they probably do not compete to a large degree with Least Flycatchers. The dramatic response of Least Flycatchers to the hawk presentations provides the first evidence that antipredator behavior may contribute to the clustering of their territories. /// Los individuos de la especie Empidonax minimus a menudo agrupan sus territorios, a pesar de que no son aparentes las ventajas del agrupamiento. Investigamos cuatro posibles razones que podran explicar el agrupamiento de nidos en E. minimus en el centro norte de Minnesota: (1) disuasin de depredadores, (2) uso de parches con caractersticas de hbitat preferidas, (3) mayor disponibilidad de alimento o (4) exclusin competitiva. En 1995 y 1996 comparamos la abundancia de artrpodos, estructura de hbitat y composicin de especies de plantas dentro y fuera de nueve grupos de nidos de E. minimus. Tambin comparamos la respuesta de aves de bosque ante la presentacin de un depredador (Buteo platypterus) y realizamos conteos de punto para determinar exclusiones de potenciales depredadores o competidores de los agrupamientos. La hiptesis mejor apoyada fue la de disuasin de depredadores. Como respuesta a la presentacin de un depredador dentro de un agrupamiento, 2.8 veces ms aves (todas las especies combinadas) emitieron 5.8 veces ms llamadas de alarma que fuera del agrupamiento. Las diferencias estuvieron dadas enteramente por la presencia de individuos de la especie E. minimus. Adems, las aves respondieron con mayor rapidez a la presencia de un halcn dentro que fuera de los agrupamientos. La escasa diferencia entre hbitats pareci insuficiente para producir el fuerte agrupamiento observado. Ni todos los artrpodos combinados ni ninguno de los cinco rdenes que usualmente son atrapados con trampas pegajosas indicaron una mayor disponibilidad de alimento dentro del rea de agrupamiento. Individuos de la especie Dendroica virens fueron 2.2 a 5.4 veces menos frecuentes dentro de los agrupamientos que fuera de ellos, aunque stos probablemente no compiten en gran medida con E. minimus. La dramtica respuesta por parte de E. minimus ante la presentacin de un halcn provee la primera evidencia experimental de que el comportamiento antidepredatorio puede contribuir a la agrupacin de territorios. 
10.2307/1368154|Experiments conducted to examine the prey distribution learning of two paruline warbler species showed no significant effect of foliage structure. However, there was significant variation in learning abilities among individuals within each bird species, and between bird species. Black-throated Blue Warblers (Dendroica caerulescens) learned to locate prey more proficiently when prey were distributed on lower leaf surfaces, while Black-throated Green Warblers (D. virens) learned to locate prey more proficiently when prey were distributed on upper leaf surfaces.
10.2307/1368876|Adult and juvenile nest attendants of both sexes were common visitors at active Tree Swallow (Tachycineta bicolor) nests during the nestling period. Attendants were never known to be close genetic relatives of the parents at the nests they visited. Attendants never passed food to nestlings in 300 recorded interactions with nestlings. Attendants attempted to steal food from both parents and nestlings, but had no demonstrable effect on parental reproductive success. Attendants only passively mobbed potential predators. These results indicate that attendants were not helpers at the nest.
10.2307/1369991|Mariana Common Moorhens (Gallinula chloropus guami) were present in 21 of 33 wetlands examined on Guam. Stepwise logistic regression identified two variables (wetland area, percent cover of emergent vegetation) that distinguished between moorhen presence or absence at a wetland. The predictive equation correctly classified 86% of the wetlands with moorhens, but only 50% of the wetlands without moorhens. The average number of moorhens at wetlands was not influenced by the amount of emergent vegetation cover. Moorhen presence at smaller wetlands with less cover of emergent vegetation may not be an indication of preference for this type of habitat on Guam. Instead, moorhen presence was likely based on wetland availability. Enhancement and management of larger natural wetlands would increase the amount of seasonal and permanent habitat available to moorhens and provide resources for more than one breeding pair of moorhens per wetland.
10.2307/1369748|We located 511 Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens) nests in bottomland hardwood forest of eastern Arkansas. Microhabitat characteristics were measured and their relationship with nest success evaluated. Fifty-two percent of all nesting attempts resulted in predation. Attributes of nest placement were similar between successful and unsuccessful nests, although successful nests were placed higher. Similarly, nonparasitized nests were typically higher than parasitized nests. Nests initiated late in the breeding season were placed in larger trees with higher canopy bases resulting in increased vegetation around the nest. Fifteen different tree species were used for nesting. Acadian Flycatchers chose nest trees in a nonrandom fashion, selecting Nuttall oak (Quercus nuttallii) and possumhaw (Ilex decidua) in greater proportions than their availability. However, there was no relationship between tree species used for nesting and nest success. Nest height was positively correlated with concealment at the nest site, supporting the predator-avoidance theory. No other attribute of nest placement differentiated successful nest sites, suggesting that nest predation is likely a function of random events in space and time.
10.2307/1370500|Methods for evaluating regulation of clutch size by endogenous nutrients have evolved rapidly over the last decade. Use of regression and correlation approaches to estimate rate of depletion of nutrient reserves and to test hypotheses about regulation of clutch size represented significant advances. Assessment of relationships between nutrient reserves and clutch size have been substantially improved by controlling for both body size and laying date. We point out potential biases and spurious correlations in current hypothesis tests, which examine the relationship between remaining nutrient reserves and remaining rapidly developing follicles. We recommend new methods to control for clutch size and for estimation of depletion of nutrient reserves, and for testing hypotheses regarding clutch size regulation.
10.2307/1369955| The six genera of corvids endemic to the Americas (i.e., Aphelocoma, Calocitta, Cyanocitta, Cyanocorax, Cyanolyca, and Gymnorhinus) form the assemblage that most ornithologists call the New World jays. The intergeneric relationships among these six genera are explored using complete sequences from the cytochrome b gene (1,143 bp) along with 29 morphological characters. A consistent phylogenetic hypothesis was obtained when the data sets were analyzed independently or in a total evidence approach. The phylogeny presented in this paper does not corroborate the existence of two evolutionary lineages as previously proposed by Hardy (1961, 1969). The most basal genus of the New World jays is Cyanolyca, which also is supported by independent evidence on cranial anatomy. The remainder of the genera are embedded within two major clades. The most derived is formed by Cyanocitta, Aphelocoma, and Gymnorhinus, being Cyanocitta the most basal genus within this clade. Calocitta and Cyanocorax constitute the other clade. A very close relationship between these two genera is supported by bootstrap values and branch support analysis. These results corroborate the hypothesis that the Pion Jay (Gymnorhinus cyanocephalus) is a true New World jay, and a putative relationship with nutcrackers is not supported. The phylogeny obtained is used to infer a biogeographic scenario, as well to explain the evolution of a very derived jaw articulation present only in the New World jays. The biogeographic scenario agrees with a relatively recent arrival of a corvine ancestor via Beringia, and a very rapid dispersal and radiation into the Americas. 
3247763| Male Wood Thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina) attend their nests by perching near its rim, a behavior common to many species and presumed to be for the purpose of guarding eggs or young in the nest. We classified nests into two groups based on whether or not we observed an attending male during any nest inspection. We found that nests attended by male Wood Thrushes had higher success rates (i.e., lower predation rates) than unattended nests in Illinois where Blue Jays were a dominant nest predator. In contrast, there was no significant difference in nest success between attended and unattended nests in New York where rodents (mice and chipmunks) and raptors, such as the Sharp-shinned Hawk, were important predators on nests and adults, respectively. Despite differences in risk to adults and nests between the two sites, the frequency of observing attendant males did not differ between sites. In contrast to studies in the literature, the frequency of nest-attendance in the New York population was negatively related to year-to-year variation in chipmunk density, an independent measure of the risk of nest predation. /// Los machos de Hylocichla mustelina se posan cerca del borde sus nidos aparentemente con el propsito de vigilar sus huevos o sus cras, lo que representa un comportamiento comn en muchas especies. Clasificamos los nidos en dos grupos basados en la presencia o ausencia de un macho durante las inspecciones de los nidos. Encontramos que los nidos que presentaron machos de H. mustelina tuvieron mayores tasas de xito (i.e., menores tasas de depredacin) que los nidos sin machos en Illinois, donde Cyanocitta cristata fue el depredador de nidos dominante. En contraste, no hubo una diferencia significativa en el xito de los nidos entre los que contaron o no con la presencia de machos en Nueva York, donde los roedores (ratones y ardillas listadas) y las rapaces (como Accipiter striatus) fueron importantes depredadores tanto de nidos como de adultos. A pesar de las diferencias en el riesgo al que estn sujetos los adultos y los nidos entre los dos sitios, la frecuencia de observacin de presencia de machos no difiri entre los sitios. En contraste con los estudios publicados, la frecuencia de la presencia de machos en los nidos en la poblacin de Nueva York se relacion negativamente con la variacin interanual en la densidad de ardillas listadas, lo que representa una medida independiente del riesgo de depredacin de los nidos. 
3247764| In seabirds, colors of feathers and external tissues have only recently been studied, and ultraviolet (UV) color has not yet been detected. Using live individuals as well as museum skins, we found UV peaks of reflectance in two large Aptenodytes species, King (A. patagonicus) and Emperor (A. forsteri) Penguins. UV reflectance did not occur on the feathers, claws, or skin of these species, nor did we find UV reflectance in five other genera of penguins (11 species). UV peaks overlapped with spots of color on the lower beak that appeared orange for human observers, and beak spots differed slightly in location between the two species. Adults of both sexes possessed these UV markings, but they were lacking in juveniles, as was the orange color of the beak spot, and auricular patches used for selecting mates. Finally, measurements of free-ranging King Penguins showed that recently paired birds had higher UV reflectance than courting ones, suggesting possible roles of UV beak spots in pairing and as an indicator of sexual maturity. /// En las aves marinas, los colores de las plumas y los tejidos externos slo han sido estudiados recientemente, y el color ultravioleta (UV) todava no se ha detectado. En individuos vivos as como en pieles de museo, nosotros encontramos picos de reflectancia UV en dos especies de pinginos, Aptenodytes patagonicus y A. forsteri. El color UV no se encontr en las plumas, las garras o la piel de estas especies, ni encontramos color UV en otros cinco gneros de pinginos (11 especies). Los puntos UV se encontraban superpuestos con manchas de color ubicadas en la parte baja del pico que parecan anaranjadas para los observadores humanos. Las manchas del pico difirieron levemente en forma y localizacin entre las dos especies. Los adultos de ambos sexos presentaron las manchas UV, pero stas no estaban presentes en los juveniles, al igual que el color anaranjado de la mancha del pico y los parches auriculares empleados en la seleccin de parejas. Medidas tomadas en individuos libres de la especie A. patagonicus demostraron que los que se haban apareado recientemente tenan presentaban reflectancias de UV mayores que las de aquellos que an estaban cortejando, lo que sugiere un posible papel de las manchas UV del pico en el apareamiento y como indicadoras de la madurez sexual. 
10.2307/1369596|We observed color-banded and/or radio-tagged Northern Shrikes (Lanius excubitor) wintering in southwest Idaho and determined that foraging success of these shrikes was over 69%. Foraging success was dependent upon the type of prey attacked. Predation success upon arthropods was greater than 90%, whereas predation upon vertebrates (small mammals and passerines) was substantially lower (56% and 19%, respectively). We collected 237 pellets from 12 shrikes and identified 671 individual prey items contained in these pellets. Arthropods and small mammals were the most important prey items as measured by number (63.9% and 29.8%, respectively) and Index of Relative Importance (38.9% and 59.6%, respectively), whereas small mammals were the most important components of shrike diet by biomass contributing 83.1% of the total prey biomass. Passerines were of lesser importance in the winter diet of shrikes accounting for 11.8% of the biomass but only 1.7% of the Index of Relative Importance.
1370392| We describe evidence that Harlequin Duck (Histrionicus histrionicus) broods accompany their mothers from breeding streams to coastal molting or wintering areas. Observations indicated that all surviving female-offspring groups left breeding areas together. We later sighted some family members at the coast near each other, suggesting that they had arrived together, then separated. We observed family groups at wintering areas in August and September. Family groups tended to separate quickly, although some family members maintained contact for over five months. To our knowledge the evidence we provide is the first suggesting that female migratory ducks bring their offspring to wintering areas, a pattern similar to geese and swans. This may be facilitated by an unusual strategy of wing molt, in which Harlequin Ducks molt after migrating to wintering areas. Due to winter pairing and strong philopatry in Harlequin Ducks, migration of families may contribute to genetic differentiation among populations. /// Presentamos evidencia de que los juveniles de Histrionicus histrionicus acompaan a sus madres desde los arroyos de reproduccin hasta las reas costeras de muda o invernada. Las observaciones indicaron que todos los grupos sobrevivientes de hembras y cras abandonaron juntos las reas de reproduccin. Ms adelante observamos algunos miembros de grupos familiares cerca unos de otros en la costa, sugiriendo que haban llegado juntos y luego se haban separado. Observamos grupos familiares en las reas de invernada en agosto y septiembre. Los grupos familiares tendieron a separarse rpidamente, aunque algunos miembros mantuvieron contacto por ms de cinco meses. A nuestro entender, esta es la primera evidencia de que las hembras de patos migratorios llevan a sus cras a los sitios de invernada, un patrn similar al de los gansos y cisnes. Esto podra ser facilitado por una estrategia poco usual, en la que H. histrionicus muda las plumas de las alas despus de migrar hacia las reas de invernada. Debido a la formacin de parejas en invierno y a la fuerte filopatra en H. histrionicus, la migracin de familias podra contribuir a la diferenciacin gentica entre poblaciones. 
40072449|Individual recognition, the ability to correctly identify an individual, relies upon individual distinctiveness in a trait being used to determine identity. However, if such distinctiveness is not stable over time, its usefulness is limited. The purpose of this study was to assess individual distinctiveness in the begging calls of female White-throated Magpie-Jays (
10.2307/1369607| Geographic variation in the Yellow-billed Cacique (Amblycercus holosericeus) was examined to determine whether bamboo-specialized populations in highland Costa Rica and the Andes are more phenetically similar to one another than to lowland populations not specialized on bamboo. Significant geographic variation was found for all mensural characters; in general, characters varied in accordance with Bergmann's rule. Specimens largely separated into two groups: (1) the Andes and (2) Middle America and the Choc forests of northwestern South America. The bamboo-specialized population of highland Costa Rica grouped with the non-specialized lowland samples of group 2, not with specialists in the Andes. This suggests that bamboo specialization arose independently in these two populations. There is no convergence in morphology evident between the two populations specialized on bamboo; thus specialization on bamboo as a foraging site or habitat may not be associated with morphological specialization in this species. 
10.2307/1368672| It has been suggested that air cell oxygen partial pressure (P<sub>A</sub>O<sub>2</sub>) in avian eggs just prior to internal pipping (PreIp stage) resembles that of avian (and mammalian) alveolar partial pressure, e.g., P<sub>A</sub>O<sub>2</sub>  104 torr. On the other hand, indirect evidence from water vapor eggshell conductance (GH<sub>2</sub>O) suggests that PreIp P<sub>A</sub>O<sub>2</sub> is allometrically related to egg mass: large and small eggs would have high and low P<sub>A</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, respectively, where the calculated PreIp P<sub>A</sub>O<sub>2</sub> of the Ostrich (Struthio camelus) egg, from those data, is about 125 torr. The rate of egg mass specific oxygen consumption (MO<sub>2</sub>),P<sub>A</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, and the partial pressure of CO<sub>2</sub> in the air cell (P<sub>A</sub>CO<sub>2</sub>) were measured; oxygen diffusive eggshell conductance (GO<sub>2</sub>), and air cell gas exchange ratio (R) were calculated; egg content surface temperature (T<sub>s</sub>) and the rate of mass loss were measured in Ostrich eggs, all during the last stages of development at 35.5C and 45% relative humidity. The mass loss was corrected for the effect of R to yield rate of water loss (MH<sub>2</sub>O). This value and vapor saturation value at T<sub>s</sub> were used to calculate GH<sub>2</sub>O. Mean  standard deviation P<sub>A</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and P<sub>A</sub>CO<sub>2</sub> during PreIp stage were 103  4.5 torr and 46  6.0 torr, respectively. The GO<sub>2</sub> found (129 ml [STPD]  (day torr)<sup>-1</sup>)  57) was lower than that predicted by allometric relationships or by calculation from GH<sub>2</sub>O (185 ml [STPD]  (day torr)<sup>-1</sup>). The ratio GO<sub>2</sub>/GH<sub>2</sub>O was 0.59  0.15, significantly different from the expected 0.85 (using the respective diffusion coefficients). A temperature difference of 2.0  0.5C was measured between the egg content surface and the incubator. The higher temperature of the egg content surface, associated with an increase of water vapor pressure in the air cell, presumably decreases GO<sub>2</sub> and increases GH<sub>2</sub>O. Values of R indicate that 1 day prior to external pipping the movements of the mature embryo influence the pattern of gas exchange by creating convective exchange. 
10.1525/cond.2011.100201|Studies of gene expression and transcriptome profiling often require the isolation of high-quality mRNA. Here, we examined how preservation method and the lag between collection and processing (postmortem interval; PMI) affect RNA quality and yield in field-collected samples. We subjected tissue samples of 11 House Sparrows (
10.2307/1369543| We studied repeatability and annual variation in laying date and productivity of 37 color-banded female Common Murres (Uria aalge) on Southeast Farallon Island, California from 1986 through 1993 to investigate demographic aspects of individual quality. We substracted the mean population lay date from the lay date of individual females to produce a standardized anomaly statistic. Thirteen birds laid consistently before the population mean, 14 birds were intermediate (showed lay dates which varied earlier and later than annual population means over the study period), and 10 birds consistently laid after the population mean. Repeatability was estimated as 0.204 when excluding the El Nio year of 1992. Chick survival was significantly lower for females which were consistentenly late relative to other members of the population, and for females that laid late within each season. Repeatability, as a measurement of between-individual variation in life history traits, is a useful index to individual quality. 
10.1525/cond.2009.090089|Despite widespread efforts to avert wildfire by reducing the density of flammable vegetation, little is known about the effects of this practice on the reproductive biology of forest birds. We examined nest-site selection and nest survival of the Black-chinned Hummingbird (
1370703| We studied the temporal diet variation of the endemic Madeira Laurel Pigeon (Columba trocaz) and fruit resource availability in the laurel forests of northwestern Madeira Island, during 1996 and 1997. We studied a total of 224 fecal samples using microhistological methods and conducted surveys of fruiting phenology throughout a year. Fruits (pulp and seeds) represented 57% of the optical fields analyzed. Leaves and flowers constituted 38% and <1% respectively. Over 33 plant species were identified in the fecal samples. Fruits of Ocotea foetens, Laurus azorica, Persea indica, and Ilex canariensis (fruits and leaves) were the most frequently detected food items. Most seeds were defecated intact (Ilex canariensis, Myrica faya, Visnea mocanera, Ocotea foetens, and Apollonias barbujana), except in the case of Laurus azorica where most were damaged. The diet showed a marked seasonal variation. Fruits constituted the major component of the diet in winter and autumn, whereas leaves were frequent in spring and summer. The presence of fruits in the diet was concordant with their availability, and leaves and flowers became important when fruits were scarce. This fact suggests that the Madeira Laurel Pigeon is capable of dietary switching, corresponding to temporal variations in food resource availability. This microhistological technique shows promise for study of the diets of pigeons and other herbivorous bird species. /// Se estudi la dieta estacional de Columba trocaz y la disponibilidad de frutos en los bosques de laurisilva de la zona noroeste de la Isla Madeira, durante 1996 y 1997. Se analiz un total de 224 excrementos mediante mtodos microhistolgicos, y se realiz un seguimiento estacional de la disponibilidad de frutos, por medio de transectos, a lo largo de un ao. Los frutos (pulpa y semillas) representaron un 57% de los campos pticos analizados; las hojas y las flores constituyeron un 38% y <1%, respectivamente. Ms de 33 especies fueron identificadas en los excrementos; restos de frutos de Ocotea foetens, Laurus azorica, Persea indica e Ilex canariensis (tanto frutos como hojas) resultaron ser los ms frecuentemente detectados. La mayora de las semillas fueron defecadas intactas (Ilex canariensis, Myrica faya, Visnea mocanera, Ocotea foetens y Apollonias barbujana), excepto en el caso de Laurus azorica, donde la mayora de ellas aparecieron daadas. La dieta mostr un marcado carcter estacional, constituyendo los frutos el componente ms importante en invierno y otoo, mientras que las hojas fueron ms abundantes en primavera y verano. La presencia de frutos en los excrementos fue concordante con su disponibilidad, adquiriendo una mayor relevancia las hojas y las flores cuando la produccin de los frutos fue escasa. Este hecho sugiere que C. trocaz exhibe una alta flexibilidad en la dieta, aprovechando aquellos recursos que son estacionalmente abundantes. Los resultados obtenidos en estos anlisis microhistolgicos ofrecen un aceptable nivel de fiabilidad para ser utilizados en estudios sobre dieta de palomas y, probablemente, extensibles a otras aves herbvoras. 
10.2307/1367460|This paper reports observations made from 1976 to 1979 of the resident birds of the Palau Islands in western Micronesia. Comments on population status, distribution, and habitat are made for all species. Song descriptions and food habits are reported for many species. Nests are described for Megapodius laperouse, Ptilinopus pelewensis, Cettia (=Psamathia) annae, Myiagra erythrops, Rhipidura lepida, Zosterops cinerea, Myzomela cardinalis, Aplonis opaca, and Artamus leucorhynchus. Taxonomic comments are made on Ptilinopus, Coracina, Psamathia, Myiagra, Colluricincla, and Megazosterops. The recommendation is made that Pyrrhoglaux podargina, Rhipidura lepida, and possibly Megapodius laperouse be declassified as Endangered Species, but that Palau populations of Rallina eurizonoides, Gallinula chloropus, Porphyrio porphyrio, and Caprimulgus indicus be considered for such listing.
1370584| We used radio-telemetry to estimate breeding season home-range size of 17 male and 11 female Northern Goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) and combined home ranges of 10 pairs of breeding goshawks in Minnesota. Home-range sizes for male and female goshawks were 2593 and 2494 ha, respectively, using the minimum convex polygon, and 3927 and 5344 ha, respectively, using the 95% fixed kernel. Home ranges of male and female members of 10 goshawk pairs were smaller than combined home-range size of those pairs (mean difference = 3527 ha; 95% CI = 891 to 6164 ha). Throughout the nonbreeding season, the maximum distance from the nest recorded for all but one goshawk was 12.4 km. Goshawks breeding in Minnesota have home ranges similar to or larger than those reported in most other areas. Home-range overlap between members of breeding pairs was typically 50%, and both members of breeding pairs were associated with breeding home ranges year round. Goshawk management plans based on estimated home-range size of individual hawks may substantially underestimate the area actually used by a nesting pair. /// Utilizamos radiotelemetra durante la poca reproductiva para estimar el tamao del rango de hogar de 17 machos y 11 hembras de Accipiter gentilis y los rangos de hogar combinados de 10 parejas reproductivas en Minnesota. Los rangos de hogar de machos y hembras fueron de 2593 y 2494 ha, respectivamente, usando el mnimo polgono convexo, y de 3927 y 5344 ha, respectivamente, usando el "kernel" fijo del 95%. Los rangos de hogar de los miembros machos y hembras de las 10 parejas fueron ms pequeos que el tamao del rango de hogar combinado de dichas parejas (diferencia promedio = 3527 ha; 95% I.C. = 891 a 6164 ha). A travs de la poca no reproductiva, la distancia mxima desde el nido registrada para todos menos un individuo fue de 12.4 km. Los individuos que se reproducen en Minnesota tienen rangos de hogar similares o mayores que los reportados en la mayora de otras reas. La superposicin entre los rangos de hogar de miembros de parejas reproductivas fue tpicamente 50%, y ambos miembros de las parejas estuvieron asociados con rangos de hogar reproductivos a travs del ao. Los planes de manejo para A. gentilis basados en estimaciones del tamao del rango de hogar de halcones individuales podran subestimar sustancialmente el rea realmente utilizada por una pareja nidificante. 
4096479| Avian color ornaments produced by different mechanisms (i.e., melanin, carotenoid, and structural colors) can communicate different sets of information due to differences in their condition or developmental constraints. Although this suggests that different color signals should be analyzed separately, few comparative studies have focused on specific types of coloration. In cardueline finches, interspecific variation in overall plumage brightness (which integrates all types of coloration) was previously shown to be affected by sexual selection and to covary with fecundity and parental care. Using a phylogenetic comparative approach, we extended this line of research and tested whether a specific component of plumage ornamentation, the melanin-based black frontal coloration of finches, showed a similar association with reproductive effort. We found that the extent of male melanization and melanin dichromatism increased in species with reduced clutch sizes, whereas female melanization was negatively correlated with incubation length. These results remained significant when we controlled for the effects of several ecological variables, and were also consistent between two alternative multivariate model-selection approaches. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that interspecific variation in melanization may be related to fecundity and parental care through trade-offs between investment in sexual signals and parental efforts. /// Los ornamentos de colores de las aves se producen por mecanismos diferentes (i.e., melanina, carotenoides y colores estructurales) y pueden comunicar distintos tipos de informacin debido a las diferencias en su condicin o en las limitaciones impuestas por el desarrollo. Aunque esto sugiere que las diferentes seales de color deberan ser analizadas separadamente, pocos estudios comparativos se han enfocado en los tipos especficos de coloracin. En estudios anteriores, se demostr que la variacin interespecfica en el brillo general del plumaje (la cual integra todos los tipos de coloracin) de los pinzones carduelinos ha sido afectada por la seleccin sexual y covari con la fecundidad y el cuidado parental. Usando una perspectiva filogentica comparativa, extendemos esta lnea de investigacin y evaluamos si un componente espec fico de la ornamentacin del plumaje, la coloracin frontal negra basada en melanina de los pinzones, muestra una asociacin similar con el esfuerzo reproductivo. Encontramos que el grado de melanizacin de los machos y el dicromatismo de melanina incrementaron en las especies con tamaos de nidada reducidos, mientras que la melanizacin de las hembras se correlacion negativamente con la duracin de la incubacin. Estos resultados siguieron siendo significativos luego de que controlamos por los efectos de varias variables ecolgicas, y fueron tambin consistentes entre dos enfoques alternativos de seleccin de modelos multivariados. Nuestros resultados son consistentes con la hiptesis de que la variacin interespecfica en la melanizacin puede estar relacionada con la fecundidad y el cuidado de los padres a travs de compromisos entre la inversin en se ales sexuales y el esfuerzo de los padres. 
10.2307/1368840|Food habits, diet quality, carcass fat, and reproductive condition of 63 Ruffed Grouse (Bonasa umbellus) collected in southwestern Virginia during March and April 1982-1984 were determined. Acorns (Quercus spp.) made up 60% of the crop contents of 22 grouse collected in 1982, the spring following a year of high acorn production. Leaves of herbaceous plants and buds of deciduous plants were the primary forages of 41 grouse collected in spring 1983 and 1984. Metabolizable energy estimates for grouse diets ranged from 50-64% and 2.30-2.68 kcal/g of dry matter, and dietary protein ranged from 14.6-17.4%. Fat levels of grouse were greater (P < 0.05) in March than April, and females had more (P < 0.05) fat than males. Fat levels did not differ (P > 0.05) among years; however, fat levels of females tended to be greatest in 1982 when acorns were the primary food used. Mean ovary and oviduct weights and paired testes weights increased (P < 0.05) from March to April suggesting that concurrent declines in fat reserves were related to increased reproductive activity.
90008526|Increased growth of the midcontinental population of Lesser Snow Geese (
10.2307/1368494|Breeding Surfbirds (Aphriza virgata) were studied in the Yukon Territory and Alaska. They utter three common call types: Song, Rhythmically Repeated Call (RRC), and Laugh. RRCs are emitted as bouts during wide-ranging aerial displays, presumably by males. Each RRC is composed of a few brief pulses followed by a long, nearly constant-frequency portion. Bouts average 5.1 RRCs in length; each RRC averages 326 msec long with intervals between of 109 msec. Song is a complex vocalization associated with aerial displays, courtship, and agonistic ground displays. It has a harsh buzzy quality because it contains rapidly repeated broad-band pulses. The Laugh is a train of simple brief elements and is uttered in response to mild disturbance such as approach by a human. Laughs average 929 msec long and contain an average of 3.8 elements. The three call types are similar in structure, temporal organization, and function to those described for other Calidridini and indicate that certain aspects of acoustic organization in the group are phylogenetically old.
10.2307/1369612|Northbound migrant shorebirds (Charadridae and Scolopacidae) were surveyed weekly by air on Delaware Bay beaches on the Atlantic coast of North America in May-June 1986 through 1992. The single day peak count occurred between 26-30 May when an average of more than 216,000 birds was counted. The most abundant species were Semipalmated Sandpiper (Calidris pusilla), Ruddy Turnstone (Arenaria interpres), Red Knot (Calidris canutus) and Sanderling (Calidris alba). Our surveys documented high hemispheric counts for each of these species, and established Delaware Bay as the most important spring stopover in the eastern U.S. for these shorebirds. Counts of Sanderlings and Semipalmated Sandpipers declined significantly over the seven years; no trends for other species were detected. Differences among species in distribution along bay beaches were attributable partly to habitat factors. We suggest that a thorough understanding of shorebird abundance and habitat use in Delaware Bay is necessary to develop a conservation strategy for regulatory protection and conservation of migrant shorebirds using this area.
10.2307/1369658|Sibling aggression varies with brood size, nestling age disparities, and food characteristics. We observed feeding and fighting within two broods of Black-crowned Night Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) in Minnesota. In one nest, on two different days, a senior chick swallowed the head of its smallest sibling, immobilizing it until it seemed near death. Occasional fights also occurred in this nest only. Senior chicks in both nests gained more food than juniors. We discuss possible functions of head-swallows, including how this behavior, as well as fighting and other factors, may have enhanced the feeding advantage of seniors.
10.2307/1368995|Strauch's (1978) compatibility analysis of relationships among the shorebirds (Charadriiformes) was the first study to examine the full range of charadriiform taxa in a reproducible way. Subsequently Mickevich and Parenti (1980) leveled serious charges against Strauch's characters, method of phylogenetic inference, and results. To account for these charges, Strauch's characters were re-examined and recoded, and parsimony analyses were performed on the revised matrix. A parsimony analysis on 74 taxa from the revised matrix yielded 855 shortest trees, each length = 286 and consistency index = 0.385. In each shortest tree there were two major lineages, a lineage of sandpiper-like birds and a lineage of plover-like birds; the two formed a monophyletic group, with the auks (Alcidae) being that group's sister taxon. The shortest trees were then compared with other estimates of shorebird relationships, comparison suggesting that the charges against Strauch's results may have resulted from the Mickevich and Parenti decisions to exclude much of Strauch's character evidence.
90008049|Two hundred years of Neotropical ornithology have resulted in comprehensive monographic guides and thousands of scientific papers. Nonetheless, information is not evenly distributed across the region. Replicating previous assessments of Neotropical ornithology, we performed searches at
10.2307/1369073|We recorded vigilance around sunrise at 140 nests of 10 potential host-species (six "accepters" and four "rejecters" of cowbird eggs) of the brood parasitic Brown-headed Cowbird (Molothrus ater) at Delta Marsh, Manitoba, to determine if hosts are present on or near their nests when cowbirds come to lay. We predicted that accepter species parasitized infrequently would be found to be more vigilant at their nests during this time than accepter species more heavily parasitized. During our watches we observed seven acts of parasitism, all between 03:44 CST (sunrise -- 44 min) and 4:00 CST (sunrise -- 25 min). We found no correlation between frequency of parasitism of accepter hosts and nest attentiveness. There was no significant difference between accepters and rejecters in early-morning vigilance. However, females of all species that roosted on their nests were more likely to be present during the critical period for parasitism than females that did not roost. Individuals that did not roost first arrived at their nests, on average, after cowbirds presumably would have arrived to lay and this difference was significant in six species. We suggest roosting on the nest may place the host in the best position to guard against parasitism, although this behavior does not always prevent parasitism.
1370377| The calls of 22 populations of the Red-billed Chough (Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax) and the Alpine Chough (P. graculus) were sampled throughout the Palearctic region. In both species calls differed in frequencies, either by latitude or longitude in the Red-billed Chough and mostly by longitude in the Alpine Chough. Frequencies varied according to body size, being higher in smaller-bodied populations and lower in larger-bodied ones, as predicted by the inverse relationship between body size and frequency. We hypothesize that, besides the effect of physical constraints determining frequencies, past climatic events and the geomorphological history of the Pleistocene also have influenced the present pattern of diversification. We also hypothesize that gene flow and 'cultural' flow have constrained the evolution of clear-cut population differences between European and North African populations, whose segregation could be quite recent. /// Muestreamos las vocalizaciones (Ilamadas) de 22 poblaciones de Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax y P. graculus a lo largo de la Regin Palertica. En ambas especies las Ilamadas variaron en frecuencia, tanto en latitud como longitud para P. pyrrhocorax y bsicamente en longitud para P. graculus. Como predice la relacin inversa entre tamao corporal y frequencia, las frecuencias fueron ms elevadas en poblaciones con tamao corporal pequeo y fueron ms bajas en poblaciones con tamao coporal mayor. Hipotetizamos que, ms all del efecto de las restricciones fsicas que determinan la frecuencia, eventos climticos pasados y la historia geomorfolgica del Pleistoceno tambin han influenciado el patrn actual de diversificacin. Tambin hipotetizamos que el flujo gnico y 'cultural' han restringido la evolucin de diferencias marcadas entre poblaciones de Europa y Africa del Norte, cuyas segregaciones podran ser particularmente recientes. 
10.2307/1369024|Singing behavior in Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis on their wintering grounds in California was studied. Additionally syllables from songs of overwintering birds were compared to syllables in songs recorded previously on their breeding grounds in an effort to identify wintering grounds of dialectal populations. Much singing was recorded from recently arrived birds in the fall. At least some spontaneous singing was recorded every month of the year. However, singing decreased in December and increased in February, probably in response to increasing day lengths. Song development was complete or almost so in some juveniles recorded upon arrival in California. At least some birds responded to playback with singing during all months on the wintering grounds, however, responses peaked during arrival in the fall and before departure for the breeding grounds in the spring. At each wintering locality, several dialects were sung, indicating that more northerly breeding populations do not leap-frog and winter south of more southerly breeding populations. The resident Z. l. nuttalli sometimes borrow elements from wintering Z. l. pugetensis to construct "hybrid" themes. However, syllables from alien dialects are soon lost from the population due to match-countersinging by Z. l. nuttalli males.
10.2307/1369261|We performed a phylogenetic analysis of the hindlimb musculature in the Passerine genera Margarornis, Premnornis, Premnoplex, and Roraimia (collectively known as the Margarornis assemblage or "treerunners") in order to determine their affinities with one another and with the Dendrocolaptinae, a related, monophyletic group with similar scansorial habits. We conclude that the treerunners are not part of the dendrocolaptine clade, for they lack the synapomorphies of that group. The treerunners themselves are shown to be monophyletic on the basis of five derived character states. Lochmias nematura, despite its outward similarity to Margarornis squamiger, is excluded from the treerunner assemblage by the absence of the derived character states diagnosing that clade.
4501001| We studied song dialects of the Rufous-collared Sparrow (Zonotrichia capensis) in espinal woodland and steppe surrounding Guatrach Lake in Argentina. We recorded 150 individuals and analyzed 14 quantitative song variables. There were significant differences between habitats in song temporal structure. In particular, the internote interval of trills was shorter in the closed compared to the open habitat. This pattern is the reverse of what is usually found in this species, although it has previously been detected in another area of the region in which this study was conducted. This region is characterized by strong winds, which could be related to the reversed pattern found. Song frequencies were lower in the closed woodland habitat than in the open steppe, which also contrasts with the pattern usually found in this species. We also recorded and analyzed the songs in a portion of the area in which the woodland was converted into grassland during the last century. The temporal structure of songs in the converted area was intermediate between song structures in the original habitats and frequencies were lower in the converted area than in both original habitats. Song structure appears to have changed after habitat conversion, but this cannot be confirmed with the data at hand because of the lack of recordings obtained before habitat change. /// Se estudiaron los dialectos de canto de Zonotrichia capensis en el bosque de espinal y la estepa de los alrededores de la Laguna de Guatrach en Argentina. Se grabaron 150 individuos y se analizaron 14 variables cuantitativas del canto. Se encontraron diferencias significativas entre los ambientes en la estructura temporal del canto. En particular, el intervalo entre las notas del trino fue menor en el ambiente cerrado que en el abierto. Este patrn est invertido en relacin al que suele encontrarse en esta especie, pero ha sido encontrado previamente en otra rea de la regin en donde se llev a cabo este estudio. Dicha regin est caracterizada por la presencia de fuertes vientos, los cuales podran estar relacionados con el patrn invertido encontrado. Las frecuencias del canto fueron menores en el ambiente cerrado que en el abierto, lo cual tambin contrasta con el patrn encontrado generalmente en esta especie. Tambin se grabaron y analizaron cantos de una porcin del rea en la cual el espinal fue convertido en pastizal durante el siglo pasado. La estructura temporal del canto en el rea convertida fue intermedia entre las estructuras de los ambientes originales y las frecuencias fueron menores en el rea convertida que en ambos ambientes originales. La estructura del canto parece haber cambiado luego de la conversin del ambiente, pero esto no puede ser confirmado con los datos disponibles debido a la falta de grabaciones obtenidas antes de dicha conversin. 
10.2307/1367814|The social behavior of 154 banded male Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater) was studied at London, Ontario in 1966 and 1967. Aggressive encounters between them appeared to involve either the establishment and maintenance of a dominance hierarchy or the guarding of resident females. Dominant males mated with resident females in mostly monogamous relationships. Males occupied specific ranges but did not defend them. Dominant males, however, defended their mates, and females sometimes defended their males from other females. Excess males were present and in breeding condition. They attended any female during her mate's absence, courting and guarding her from advances by other males and occasionally copulating with her.
40072465|Many birds ingest small stones to aid in the grinding up of coarse food items in the diet. However, small stones are also found in the stomachs of species with diets consisting of soft food items, and may serve to mechanically remove parasites attached to the stomach wall. We sampled Double-crested Cormorants (
10.2307/1369429|Whereas endogenous time programs are thought to control different aspects of bird migration, regulation of migratory behavior is sensitive to acute ecological factors. The relation between migratory activity and energetic status was studied by monitoring day (presumptive feeding) and night (migratory) locomotor activity of captive North American thrushes (Hylocichla mustelina, Catharus fuscescens, C. ustulatus, and C. minimus) immediately after spring passage across the Gulf of Mexico. (1) Lean migrants, regardless of species, displayed less night activity than migrants with undepleted fat stores. (2) Lean birds were more active during the day (presumptive feeding behavior) than fat birds, regardless of species. (3) Nocturnal restlessness resumed as lean individuals replenished fat stores, whereas day activity decreased as lean birds regained mass. (4) Catharus thrushes, which travel longer distances than Wood Thrushes before reaching breeding grounds, displayed more activity on a per-night basis. Our results support the idea that a migrant's energetic status modifies the programmed course of migration.
10.2307/1370003|We present the first documentation of Kittlitz's Murrelet (Brachyramphus brevirostris) vocalizations, based on recordings made in Glacier Bay, Alaska, in 1994. We identified two apparently related types of calls: groan and quack. The Kittlitz's Murrelet calls were markedly different from the most common calls of the congeneric Marbled Murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus), but shared characteristics with the Marbled Murrelet's less common "groan" call. Phylogeny, breeding biology, and habitat characteristics may explain relationships between the congeneric vocalizations. More complete knowledge of the Kittlitz's Murrelet vocal repertoire is needed before vocalizations can be either used or discarded in the design of effective programs to monitor this rare and poorly-known species.
1370650| Low spatiotemporal variability in the abundance of nonschooling prey might allow Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) to maintain the high chick provisioning rates that are characteristic of the species. We tested predictions of this hypothesis with data collected with beach seines and scuba and hydroacoustic surveys in Kachemak Bay, Alaska, during 1996-1999. Coefficients of variability were 20-211% greater for schooling than nonschooling prey on day, seasonal, and km scales. However, the proportion of schooling prey in chick diets explained relatively little variability in Pigeon Guillemot meal delivery rates at the scale of hours (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.07) and weeks (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.19). Behavioral adaptations such as flexible time budgets likely ameliorate the negative effects of high resource variability, but we propose that these adaptations are only effective when schooling prey are available at distances well below the maximum foraging range of the species. /// La baja variabilidad espacio-temporal en la abundancia de presas que no forman cardmenes podra permitir que Cepphus columba mantenga las altas tasas de aprovisionamiento de los pichones que caracterizan a esta especie. Evaluamos las predicciones de esta hiptesis con datos colectados mediante redes barredoras de playa y buceo y muestreos hidro-acsticos en la Baha Kachemak, Alaska, durante 1996-1999. Los coeficientes de variabilidad fueron 20-211% mayores para las presas que forman cardmenes que para las que no forman cardmenes a las escalas diaria, estacional y de km. Sin embargo, la proporcin de presas que forman cardmenes en la dieta de los pichones explic relativamente poca variabilidad en las tasas de entrega de alimento de C. columba a la escala de horas (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.07) y semanas (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.19). Las adaptaciones de comportamiento como presupuestos de tiempo flexibles probablemente corrigen los efectos negativos de la alta variacin de recursos, pero proponemos que estas adaptaciones son slo efectivas cuando las presas que forman cardmenes estn disponibles a distancias bien por debajo del rango mximo de forrajeo de la especie. 
1370570| We surveyed a discrete population of Mountain Plovers (Charadrius montanus) in South Park, Park County, Colorado, to determine the size and relative contribution of this geographically isolated area to the global population of plovers. First, we mapped potential plover habitat within South Park based on landform and vegetation descriptors. Second, we identified occupied habitat using observations from a systematic inventory of potential habitat from 1995-1999 and from a study of breeding biology from 2000-2002. Third, we estimated breeding densities within a framework designed specifically for distance sampling. We mapped 82 750 ha of potential habitat. We recorded 2516 plover locations from which we estimated 29 176 ha of occupied habitat. We estimated densities for 14 960 ha of potential habitat. Average plover density from 2000-2002 was 7.9  0.9 (SE) breeding adults km<sup>-2</sup>, a high value compared with other sites. We calculated a population of 1187  140 (SE) plovers in the distance sampling area. Assuming density in our sampling area was similar for all documented occupied habitat, we estimated the population of plovers in South Park at 2310 adults. We conclude that South Park represents a contemporarily large concentration of breeding Mountain Plovers. /// Estudiamos una poblacin discreta de Charadrius montanus en South Park, condado de Park, Colorado, para determinar el tamao y la contribucin relativa de esta poblacin geogrficamente aislada a la poblacin global de C. montanus. Primero, elaboramos mapas de los hbitats potenciales para C. montanus en South Park basndonos en descriptores de formas del paisaje y vegetacin. Segundo, identificamos los hbitats ocupados por C. montanus utilizando observaciones de un inventario sistemtico de hbitats potenciales realizado entre 1995 y 1999 y a partir de un estudio sobre su biologa reproductiva realizado entre 2000 y 2002. Tercero, estimamos las densidades reproductivas utilizando una metodologa especficamente diseada para el mtodo de muestreo con distancias. Elaboramos mapas de 82 750 ha de hbitat potencial. Registramos 2516 localidades en que se encontraron C. montanus, a partir de las cuales estimamos 29 176 ha de hbitat ocupado. Estimamos densidades para 14 960 ha de hbitat potencial. La densidad promedio de C. montanus desde 2000 hasta 2002 fue 7.9  0.9 (ES) adultos reproductivos por km<sup>2</sup>, un valor alto en comparacin con otras localidades. Calculamos una poblacin de 1187  140 (ES) individuos dentro del rea censada con el mtodo de muestreo con distancias. Asumiendo que la densidad en nuestra rea muestreada fue similar en todos los hbitats documentados como ocupados, estimamos que la poblacin de C. montanus en South Park es de 2310 adultos. Concluimos que South Park representa actualmente un rea con alta concentracin de individuos reproductivos de C. montanus. 
1370347| Corticosterone concentrations in birds usually rise in response to capture and handling, and it is often assumed that this change is predictable. We tested this assumption by leaving Gambel's White-crowned Sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii), House Sparrows (Passer domesticus), and Lapland Longspurs (Calcarius lapponicus) in nets or traps for 15 min following capture and comparing their corticosterone response over the next 60 min with birds removed immediately. White-crowned Sparrows and House Sparrows left in mist nets for 15 min and then bled had significantly elevated corticosterone concentrations compared to controls that were immediately removed from the net and bled. Corticosterone concentrations over the next 45 min of handling and restraint were similar between groups. In another experiment, White-crowned Sparrows and Lapland Longspurs were captured using seed-baited Potter traps. The corticosterone response of White-crowned Sparrows left in the trap for 15 min did not differ from White-crowned Sparrows removed immediately. Leaving Lapland Longspurs in the trap had no effect in the initial 10 min of handling and restraint, but at 30 and 60 min these birds had significantly lower corticosterone concentrations than longspurs removed immediately from the trap. These data indicate that failing to immediately remove birds from nets or traps can alter the corticosterone response to subsequent stressful stimuli in unpredictable ways. This result emphasizes that the elapsed time from capture is a critical variable in assessing stress responses in free-living birds. /// Las concentraciones de corticosterona en las aves usualmente aumentan en respuesta a la captura y manipulacin, y muchas veces se supone que estos cambios son predecibles. Pusimos a prueba esta suposicin reteniendo individuos de las especies Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii, Passer domesticus y Calcarius lapponicus en redes o trampas durante los 15 minutos subsecuentes a la captura y comparamos sus respuestas en los niveles de corticosterona durante los siguientes 60 minutos con las de individuos removidos inmediatamente de las trampas y redes. Las muestras de sangre de Z. l. gambelii y P. domesticus que fueron obtenidas despus de 15 minutos de retencin en las redes tuvieron niveles de corticosterona significativamente ms altos que las de los individuos control obtenidas inmediatamente despus de la captura. Durante los 45 minutos siguientes de manipulacin y captura, las concentraciones de corticosterona fueron similares entre los dos grupos. En otro experimento, Z. l. gambelii y C. lapponicus fueron capturados mediante trampas "Potter" cebadas con semillas. La respuesta en los niveles de corticosterona de Z. l. gambelii no fue diferente entre individuos retenidos en las trampas por 15 minutos e individuos removidos inmediatamente. Para individuos de C. lapponicus retenidos en las trampas no hubo un efecto durante los 10 minutos iniciales de manipulacin y captura, pero a los 30 y 60 minutos estas aves tuvieron concentraciones significativamente menores que los individuos removidos inmediatamente. Estos resultados indican que al no remover inmediatamente a las aves de las redes o trampas, las respuestas en los niveles de corticosterona a estmulos estresantes pueden verse alteradas de una manera impredecible. Estos resultados enfatizan que en aves silvestres, el lapso de tiempo desde la captura es una variable crtica en la determinacin de las respuestas al estrs. 
4096475| The Botteri's Sparrow (Aimophila botterii) is a bird of tall grasslands that temporarily disappeared from Arizona following heavy livestock grazing in the 1890s. Its return was noted first in sacaton (Sporobolus wrightii), an uncommon native floodplain tallgrass often >2 m in height, and subsequently in stands of exotic lovegrasses (Eragrostis spp.) spreading into adjacent uplands that otherwise supported shorter native grasslands. We examined whether the exotic grasslands provided suitable breeding habitat for Botteri's Sparrows, compared to native grasslands. We counted birds for three years on 18 plots, monitored 314 nests on 323 home ranges, banded 583 birds, and measured vegetation on plots and home ranges, and at nests and fledgling locations. Abundance and site fidelity were positively associated with grass height and cover, being greatest in sacaton, intermediate in exotics, and lowest in native upland grasslands. The three habitats did not differ in young fledged per capita. Vegetation cover on Botteri's Sparrow home ranges did not differ from the surrounding available habitat, but locations of flightless recently fledged young included taller and more dense vegetation than either nest sites or random locations, especially in sparsely vegetated native grasslands. These results suggest that fledglings required substantial cover to avoid predation while they completed development. Far from being an ecological trap, the exotic lovegrasses apparently are providing essential cover for the Botteri's Sparrow in Arizona, perhaps allowing it to regain an abundance similar to what existed regionally prior to overgrazing of the late 19th Century. /// Aimophia botterii es un ave que desapareci temporalmente de Arizona de-bido al pastoreo intensive en la dcada de 1890. El ave retorn a Arizona primero a pastizales de hierbas nativas de Sporobolus wrightii, una especie poco comn de ms de 2 m de altura de las planicies inundables, y posteriormente a pastizales exticos de Eragrostis spp que se expandan a tierras altas adyacentes que de otro modo presentaban pastizales nativos cortos. En este estudio examinamos la calidad del h bitat de los pastizales de hierbas nativas y exticas para la reproduccin y alimentacin de A. botterii. Censamos la abundancia de A. botterii en 18 parcelas de estudio durante tres aos, monitoreamos el xito de 314 nidos en 323 territories, anillamos 583 individuos, y estudiamos la vegetacin de los territories y de las localidades de anidacin. La abundancia y la fidelidad de territorio en A. botterii estuvieron positivamente correlacionadas a la altura del pasto y a la cobertura del terreno, siendo ms alta la correlacin en S. wrightii, intermedia en Eragrostis spp. y baja en pastizales nativos. Sin embargo, los tres tipos de hbitat no difirieron en la produccin per c pita de polluelos. No encontramos diferencias entre la vegetacin en los lugares de anidacin y las reas circundantes. Los polluelos volantones prefirieron lugares de pasto ms alto y denso que el de las reas de anidacin, especialmente en los ambientes de pasto nativo. Estos resultados sugieren que los polluelos volantones requieren buena cobertura vegetal para protegerse de los depredadores mientras completan su desarrollo. Lejos de ser una "trampa ecolgica", las hierbas ex ticas actualmente proveen un habitat esencial para A. botterii en Arizona y quizs han ayudado a que la especie vuelva a alcanzar los niveles de abundancia anteriores al siglo XIX. 
90008045|Common Raven (
90008044|The Kittlitzs Murrelet (
10.2307/1370417| We examined the control of body temperature during active and resting behaviors in chicks of a large precocial bird, the Greater Snow Goose (Chen caerulescens atlantica), growing in a cold Arctic environment. Imprinted goslings from 4 to 31 days old maintained their mean ( SD) body core temperature within a narrow range around 40.6  0.2C (range: 38.7-42.2C), independently of changes in their thermal environment. Average body temperature increased <0.4C between 4 and 31 days of age. Hypothermia, potentially an energy-saving mechanism, was not used by active goslings. The potential for heat loss to the environment influenced the length of resting bouts in wild goslings. As environmental temperature increased, wild goslings remained sitting alone for longer periods, whereas when it decreased, brooding behavior was prolonged. The time spent huddling increased with the number of goslings involved. Body temperature during huddling bouts measured in imprinted chicks was significantly lower than during periods of activity, showing a rapid decrease averaging 0.8C at the onset of huddling, followed by a slow recovery before activity was resumed. Thus, huddling behavior was not used as a rewarming mechanism. Greater Snow Goose goslings appear to prioritize metabolic activity by maintaining a high body temperature, despite the high energy costs that may be involved. Social thermoregulation is used to reduce the energy costs entailed by the strict maintenance of homeothermy. 
10.2307/3247713|Male Eastern Bluebirds (Sialia sialis) feed their daughters more frequently than their sons. One hypothesis which accounts for this pattern of paternal care is that daughters require more food because they have a higher energy expenditure than their male siblings. We measured the field metabolic rate of one male and one female nestling from 14 different nests using the doubly labeled water technique. Male and female CO
10.1525/cond.2012.110175|The White-fronted Woodpecker (
10.1525/cond.2011.100007|Birds of the forest canopy are an integral component of bird communities of neotropical forests but remain largely unstudied, inhibiting any broad characterization of their assemblages. We present the first description of a canopy-bird assemblage from Middle America and, on the basis of >11 000 detections in lowland rainforests in Honduras and Amazonian Brazil, compare two distant canopy-bird assemblages. The richness of canopy birds at the two sites was similar despite the much higher richness of forest birds in Brazil. Furthermore, abundance distributions differed significantly: in Honduras the assemblage was dominated by a small number of superabundant species and had fewer rare species, whereas in Brazil it had fewer abundant species and was thus more even. Omnivores and insectivores dominated the assemblages in terms of species richness, but omnivores were numerically more abundant. Species of forest edges and open habitats, sometimes considered an important component of forest-canopy avifauna, were underrepresented at both sites in comparison to null expectations drawn from the pool of species in each region. Long-distance migrants were more important in Honduras, where they constituted a third of canopy birds, yet species richness of migrants did not differ from a null expectation. Finally, we present a baseline classification of the core constituent species of bird assemblages in the canopy of lowland neotropical rainforests.
