23493155|Recent fieldwork in Bolivia has resulted in the recognition of 180 species in 36 genera of Acanthaceae. The purpose of this taxonomic treatment is to discuss, in alphabetical order, all the known Bolivian species of the family, and as such, this work is a ready reference for botanists, so that they may identify their collections of acanthaceous plants or use the keys for detecting further undescribed species. Except for brief discussions to indicate possible relationships of the novelties to allied species, no phylogenetic inferences within the family have been made. A full list of synonyms for the Bolivian species and those of adjoining countries has been prepared. Keys, species descriptions, and specimen distribution data is provided. When available, illustrations, ecological and conservation data have been included. Two new species of Dicliptera, D. palmariensis and D. purpurascens are described and illustrated, and Lepidagathis alverezia is a new combination. The following 26 names are lectotypified: Ancylogyne peruviana, Aphelandra albadenia, Aphelandra simplex, Arrhostoxylum haenkeanum, Beloperone denudata, Beloperone matthewsii, Beleperone nodicaulis, Chaetochlamys ciliata, Chaetochlamys macrosiphon, Chaetothylax boliviensis, Chaetothylax tocantinus, Dicliptera pohliana, Dicliptera seriacea, Dicliptera squarrosa, Geissomeria tetragona, Justicia diamantina, Justicia dubiosa, Justicia yurimaguensis, Leptostachya parviflora, Mendoncia meyeniana, Orthotactus strobilacea, Pachystachys lutea, Porphyrocoma lanceolata, Ruellia glischrocalyx, Ruellia haenkeana, and Stephanophysum ruizianum.
23493230|This treatment provides a revision of four sections of Aralia L. (Araliaceae). It is the third and last of the Aralia monographic series by the author. The first was on Aralia sect. Pentapanax (Seem.) Wen (19 species, Wen 2002); and the second was on Aralia sect. Dimorphanthus (Miq.) Miq. (29 spp., Wen 2004). This revision treats Aralia sects. Aralia (14 spp.), Humiles (3 spp.), Nanae (1 sp.), and Sciadodendron (5 spp.). A taxonomic key to all sections of Aralia is provided. Species keys are provided for each of the three sections with multiple species. As typified by Aralia fargesii Franch., Aralia sect. Anomalae Harms is now placed in synonymy of Aralia sect. Aralia. Aralia sect. Nanae is the only monotypic section of the genus, consisting of Aralia nudicaulis L. Marchal's genus Coudenbergia is merged with Aralia sect. Sciadodendron in this study. Detailed descriptions on the morphology and ecology, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided for each taxon of the four sections (23 species). The phylogeny of Aralia based on sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA and three chloroplast markers, including the ndhF gene, the trnL-F region, and the atpB-rbcL spacer, is presented. An early biogeographic radiation of Aralia is hypothesized. Taxa of Aralia sect. Humiles do not form a clade with those of the Asian Aralia sect. Pentapanax. These two sections were once treated as constituting the genus "Pentapanax," and they are shown here to be non-monophyletic and best treated as belonging to two different sections. Aralia bahiana J. Wen is herein described as a new species from Bahia, Brazil. Aralia sect. Sciadodendron is a new nomenclatural combination with the genus Sciadodendron as its basionym. The newly lectotypified names include (accepted names in boldface): Aralia cachemirica Decne., A. californica S. Watson, A. californica var. acuminata S. Watson ex Howell, A. chilapensis Sess & Moc., A. continentalis Kitagawa, A. cordata Thunb., A. edulis Sieb. & Zucc., A. fluminensis Glaz., A. henryi Harms, A. humilis Cav., A. pilosa Franch., A. pubescens DC., A. racemosa L. var. sachalinensis Regel, Megalopanax rex Ekman ex Harms, Pentapanax ulei Harms, and Sciadodendron excelsum Griseb.
23493225|A taxonomic identification and reference guide of 48 harmful marine dinoflagellate species present in the world's oceans. This guidebook illustrates the morphology and taxonomy of harmful marine dinoflagellates of the following genera: Alexandrium, Dinophysis, Gymnodinium, Ostreopsis, Prorocentrum, Coolia, Cochlodinium, Gambierdiscus, Gonyaulax, Gyrodinium, Lingulodinium, and Pfiesteria. These organisms have been implicated in marine life mortality events and/or seafood-borne human diseases. Some species cause problems due to red tide conditions, others produce toxins; e.g. brevetoxins, ciguatoxins, dinophysistoxins, and ichthyotoxins. Detailed taxonomic descriptions of plate and thecal morphology, and cellular structure are presented. Taxonomic treatment of species includes nomenclatural types, type locality, synonyms, and etymology. Information is also available on species reproduction, ecology, biogeography, distribution, and habitat and locality. Species illustrations presented as scanning electron micrographs, differential interference contrast and epifluorescence light micrographs, as well as line drawings. A comprehensive glossary list and literature reference section is included. Kofoidian plate tabulation followed for armored species plate designation. The International Code of Botanical Nomenclature (ICBN) was followed for the taxonomical treatment of species. This fully illustrated laboratory guide is intended for the researcher, instructor, and the student; it is the most comprehensive reference manual for identifying harmful dinoflagellate taxa. It can also serve as a field guide for marine biologists and environmental researchers.
23493233|A taxonomic revision of Festuca L. for the South American paramos of Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, northern Peru, and Venezuela is given. Fifty-six species and six subspecies of Festuca are recognized in the study area. Fifty-three species are native to the flora region and three are introduced and cultivated. Keys for determining the species, a classification, synonymies, descriptions, leaf anatomical descriptions, observations, distribution and habitat, specimens examined, illustrations, and leaf surface micrographs are provided. One species: F. turimiquirensis Stank & P.M. Peterson, and one subspecies: F. tolucensis subsp. culata Stank & P.M. Peterson, are newly described. The following three names were lectotypified: Bromus caldasii Kunth [Festuca caldasii (Kunth) Kunth], Festuca fratercula Rupr. ex E. Fourn. (=Festuca amplissima Rupr. subsp. amplissima), and Festuca ovina subvar. jamesonii St.-Yves (=Festuca glumosa Hack. ex E.B. Alexeev). Se presenta una revisin taxonmica del gnero Festuca (Poaceae) para los paramos del Sudamrica cubriendo la regin de Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, norte del Per y Venezuela. Se reconocen 56 especies y seis subespecies. Cincuenta y tres especies son nativas de la regin, tres son introducidas y cultivadas. En el trabajo se presenta una clave para la determinacin de las especies, una clasificacin del gnero en la regin estudiada, sinnimos, descripciones, descripcin de la anatoma foliar, distribucin y ecologa de las especies, lista de los especmenes estudiados, ilustraciones y microfotografas de la epidermis foliar. Se describe una nueva especie: F. turimiquirensis Stank & P.M. Peterson, y una subespecie F. tolucensis subsp. culata Stank & P.M. Peterson. Tambin se designan lectotipos para tres nombres: Bromus caldasii Kunth [Festuca caldasii (Kunth) Kunth], Festuca fratercula Rupr. ex E. Fourn. (=Festuca amplissima Rupr. subsp. amplissima) y Festuca ovina subvar. jamesonii St.-Yves (=Festuca glumosa Hack. ex E.B. Alexeev).
23493180|Nomenclature, taxonomy, synonymy, original publications, type collections, secondary references using the accepted names, and distribution by country and Caribbean region within the New World are presented for taxa within the grass subfamily: Chloridoideae. Taxonomic synonymy is presented for all taxa at all ranks (other than ranks applying to cultivated taxa) known to occur natively or naturalized in the New World. In addition, data on introduced species are recorded. The work covers 3654 binomial and trinomial names, which are denoted as; 1 - accepted, 2 - tentatively accepted (bolded), synonyms (italicized), and status not yet determined. Accepted names are additionally marked as cultivated (45 species) or introduced (68 species) to our region. Other works using the accepted names are cited. The number of accepted genera = 70 (62 native, 8 introduced). The number of accepted or tentatively accepted species = 672 (604 native species); 148 taxa are further separated into subspecific rank. The status of 25 species is not yet determined. A classification of subfamily Chloridoideae is presented and a new combination, Muhlenbergia sericea, is made.
23493110|Part I provides the collector's notes on trips in chronological order. Part II lists collection localities, with collection number ranges, habitat descriptions, geographic coordinates, and assisting collectors. Part III consists of maps of Guyana showing collecting localites. Part IV lists collections in numerical order with identifications and authors. Part V lists collections ordered by determined name.
23493174|An inventory of the vascular plants of Guaramacal National Park indicates that 147 families, 517 genera, 1227 species, 20 additional infraspecific taxa, and 4 hybrids are present in an area of approximately 21.5 km2. The park, which corresponds to the Ramal de Guaramacal in Trujillo and Portuguesa states, is the northeastern-most portion of the Venezuelan Andes. It protects essentially undisturbed vegetation and mostly includes lower montane forest, cloud forest, and pramo between 1600 and 3100 m elevation. The catalogue is divided into lists of Pteridophyta (Equisetopsida, Lycopodiopsida, Filicopsida), Spermatophyta (Pinopsida), and Magnoliophyta (Liliopsida, Magnoliopsida) and each list is arranged alphabetically by family, genus, and species. Accepted names, limited synonymy, common names, distribution within the park, elevation, exsiccatae, and uses are presented for most species. Each family entry also is followed by a list of pertinent references. An appendix listing the 33 vascular plant taxa described from material collected in the national park is included. Indices to common and scientific names are provided.
23493195|The purpose of this work is to provide a quantitative estimate of the variation in character states in angiosperm families. The less variant a character is the more reliable it is in classification and phylogeny. My classification of the dicot families published in 1986 is herein amended to reflect further understanding of genetic relationships and degree of advancement of some families. A new dendrogram of the orders is provided, and an ordinal allocation of the families is given. The characters and character states for 57 monocot families and 336 dicot families are presented in separate tables. In Tables 1 and 2, approximately 100 characters are used to characterize all organs and some tissues as well as some ecological and geographic attributes. The percentage of occurrence of each character state (quantitative estimate) is computed separately for dicot and monocot families and the results are presented in Table 3. In about 115 of the characters the percentage of occurrence is similar for both monocots and dicots. In about 60 characters the percentage differs significantly, of these 3/4 suggest the primitive condition occurs in monocots. Two hundred eighty-eight character states that occur in relatively few families are given in Table 4, a summary of characters and states that occur in a few families. Approximately 53% of these infrequent character states occur in both dicot and monocot families, about 40% occur only in dicot families, and about 7% occur only in monocot families.
23492822|Nomenclature, taxonomy, synonymy, original publications, type collections, secondary references using the accepted names, and distribution by country and Caribbean region within the New World are presented for taxa within the grass subfamilies: Panicoideae, Aristidoideae, Arundinoideae, and Danthonioideae. Taxonomic synonymy is presented for all taxa at all ranks (other than ranks applying to cultivated taxa) known to occur natively, naturalized or cultivated in the New World. In addition, data on introduced species are recorded. The work covers 10986 mononomial, binomial, and trinomial names, which are denoted as; 1 - accepted (bolded), 2 - tentatively accepted (bolded), 3 - doubtful or dubious (italicized), and synonyms (italicized). The number of accepted genera = 119 (93 native, 26 introduced). The number of accepted or tentatively accepted species = 1613 (1465 native species); 314 are further separated into subspecific rank. Accepted names are additionally marked as cultivated (50 species) or introduced (148 species) to our region. Other works from the literature using the accepted names are cited. A classification of subfamilies Aristidoideae, Arundinoideae, Danthonioideae, and Panicoideae is presented. The following 18 names are lectotypified (names in bold are accepted; others are synonyms): Paspalum approximatum Dll, Paspalum arundinellum Mez, Paspalum bertonii Hack., Paspalum chepica Steud., Paspalum cromyorrhizon Trin. ex Dll, Paspalum conjugatum Bergius var. parviflorum Dll, Paspalum conjugatum Bergius var. pubescens Dll, Paspalum erianthum Nees, Paspalum hassleri Hack., Paspalum hyalinum Nees ex Trin., Paspalum malacophyllum Trin. var. longipilum Hack., Paspalum niederleinii Mez, Paspalum oryzoides Mez, Paspalum plicatulum Michx. var. oligostachyum Dll., Paspalum regnellii Mez, Paspalum reticulatum Hack., Paspalum sordidum Hack., and Paspalum virgatum var. subplicatum Hack. A new combination, Digitaria ciliaris var. rhachiseta (Henrard) A.S. Vega & Rgolo, is made.
23493236|This volume contains a checklist of the plants of the Guiana Shield Area (northeastern South America) produced using information gathered from historical and recent collections as well as many recent expeditions. The Guiana Shield, as treated here, includes the countries of Guyana and Surinam, French Guiana (a part of France) and the Venezuelan states of Amazonas, Bolivar, and Delta Amacuro. The checklist contains 257 vascular plant families with 13,367 species. According to the list 6,791 of those species are from Amazonas, 6,669 from Bolvar, 1,651 from Delta Amacuro, 7,112 from Guyana, 4,984 from Surinam, and 5,406 are from French Guiana. Of these species, 293 (2.2%) are estimated to be introduced and naturalized and even fewer are invasive. The small number of naturalized species is a good indication of the large amount of intact vegetation from this area of South America. The largest family is the Leguminoseae with 146 genera containing 1032 species; 41 families are represented by only one species. Over 250 scientists from around the world participated in this project by identifying specimens and checking species lists. This volume should be of use to students, taxonomists, ecologists, and conservation biologists, as well as to interested amateurs.
23493264|An inventory of the vascular plants of the Mache-Chindul Mountains is presented from collecting expeditions beginning in 1991 to present. The Mache-Chindul Mountains reach an elevation of 800 meters and are located in northwestern Ecuador in the southernmost part of the province of Esmeraldas (0021'N 7944'W) and the northernmost part of the province of Manab (0025'S 7957'W). The Pacific Ocean lies 20-30 km due west and the equator transects the middle of this mountain range. The Mache-Chindul range occupies about 400 km2 and harbors the last large tract of coastal wet forest in Ecuador, an area less than 4% of its original size. Important protected areas include the Reserva Ecolgica Mache-Chindul, Bilsa Biological Station, Bosque Protector Cerro Pata de Pjaro, and the Reserva Lalo Loor. An inventory of the 6,000 collections made from the region has resulted in the enumeration of 1,346 vascular plant taxa that are native to the study area; non-native and introduced species were not heavily sampled and nearly 2,400 collections (40%) are only determined to genus. A biogeographic analysis is presented based on 1,318 native species. A total of 162 species (12%) are endemic to the western lowlands of coastal Ecuador. The Mache-Chindul flora shares 865 species (66%) with the lowlands of Amazonia, across the barrier of the Andes, and 957 species (73%) are shared with the Choc region of coastal Colombia. A total of 814 species (61%) extend farther to the north into Mesoamerica. The botanical explorations in the Mache-Chindul Mountains have resulted in the publication of two new monotypic genera and 33 species recently described as new to science. An annotated list of species by family is given that includes the publication citation, a representative specimen, elevation range, habitat preference, and phytogeographic region for each species. Se presenta un inventario de las plantas vasculares de la Cordillera Mache-Chindul, basado en las expediciones botnicas desde el ao 1991 hasta la actualidad. Las montaas de Mache-Chindul alcanzan una altitud mxima de 800 m.s.n.m. y estn ubicadas en el noroccidente del Ecuador, en el extremo sur de la provincia de Esmeraldas (0021'N 7944'W) y el extremo norte de la provincia de Manab (0025'S 7957'W). La costa del Ocano Pacfico est entre 20-30 km al oeste, y la lnea equinoccial divide en la mitad a esta Cordillera. Mache-Chindul comprende alrededor de 400 km2 y abarca el ltimo remanente grande de bosque muy hmedo tropical en la Costa del Ecuador, un rea de menos de 4% de su extensin original. Las principales reas protegidas en la regin incluyen la Reserva Ecolgica Mache-Chindul, la Estacin Biolgica Bilsa, el Bosque Protector Cerro Pata de Pjaro, y la Reserva de Lalo Loor. Un inventario de las 6.000 colecciones de plantas de la regin da como resultado el listado de 1.346 especies de plantas vasculares nativas al rea de estudio. No se realiz un inventario completo de las especies introducidas y cultivadas, y casi 2.400 colecciones (40% del total) estn identificadas solamente a nivel de gnero. Se presenta un anlisis biogeogrfico, en base de 1.318 especies nativas. Un total de 162 especies (12%) son endmicas a la Costa del occidente del Ecuador. La flora de Mache-Chindul comparte 865 especies (66% del total) con las tierras bajas de la Amazona, a travs de la barrera de los Andes, y 957 especies (73%) se comparten con la regin del Choc en la costa occidental de Colombia. Un total de 814 especies (61%) se extienden ms al norte hacia el istmo de Mesoamrica. Las exploraciones botnicas en la Cordillera Mache-Chindul han tenido como resultado la publicacin de dos nuevos gneros monotpicos, y 33 especies descritas recientemente como nuevas para la ciencia. Se presenta un listado de las especies, con comentarios, organizado por familia taxonmica e incluyendo la cita de la publicacin, un espcimen representativo, rango de altitud, hbito, y distribucin fitogeogrfica de cada especie.
23493261|The present treatment constitutes an updated revision for the monocotyledon and gymnosperm flora (excluding Orchidaceae and Poaceae) for the biogeographical region of Puerto Rico (including all islets and islands) and the Virgin Islands. With this contribution, we fill the last major gap in the flora of this region, since the dicotyledons have been previously revised. This volume recognizes 33 families, 118 genera, and 349 species of Monocots (excluding the Orchidaceae and Poaceae) and three families, three genera, and six species of gymnosperms. The Poaceae with an estimated 89 genera and 265 species, will be published in a separate volume at a later date. When Ackerman's (1995) treatment of orchids (65 genera and 145 species) and the Poaceae are added to our account of monocots, the new total rises to 35 families, 272 genera and 759 species. The differences in number from Britton's and Wilson's (1926) treatment is attributed to changes in families, generic and species concepts, recent introductions, naturalization of introduced species and cultivars, exclusion of cultivated plants, misdeterminations, and discoveries of new taxa or new distributional records during the last seven decades. Seven new taxa are described: Agave minor Proctor, Bulbostylis capillaris subsp. insulana M.T. Strong, Cyperus pulguerensis M.T. Strong, Guzmania lingulata var. concolor Proctor & Cedeo-Mald., Pitcairnia angustifolia var. simplicior Proctor & Cedeo-Mald., Pitcairnia jareckii Proctor & Cedeo-Mald., and Zephyranthes proctorii Acev.-Rodr. & M.T. Strong; and two new combinations are made: Cyperus subtenuis (Kk.) M.T. Strong and Rhynchospora divaricata (Ham.) M.T. Strong. Twenty one of the accepted names (or their basionyms) in this work are lectotypified: Aechmea lingulata (L.) Baker, Aechmea nudicaulis (L.) Griseb., Alocasia plumbea Van Houtte, Crocosmia  crocosmiiflora (Lemoine ex Morren) N.E. Brown, Cyperus confertus Sw., Cyperus subtenuis (Kk.) M.T. Strong, Cyperus urbanii Boeck., Eleocharis rostellata (Torr.) Torr., Guzmania monostachia (L.) Mez, Heteranthera limosa (Sw.) Willd., Heteranthera reniformis Ruiz & Pav., Hohenbergia antillana Mez., Neomarica northiana (Schneev.) Sprague, Rajania cordata L., Rhynchospora ciliata (G. Mey.) Kk., Rhynchospora odorata C. Wright ex Griseb., Spathiphyllum wallisii Regel, Tillandsia fasciculata Sw., Tillandsia polystachya (L.)L., and Xanthosoma helleborifolium (Jacq.) Schott. Four names are neotypified: Caladium bicolor (Aiton) Vent., Eleutherine bulbosa (Mill.) Urb., Smilax coriacea Spreng., and Spirodela polyrhiza (L.) Schleid. One name is epitypified: Anthurium scandens (Aubl.) Engl. Fifteen synonyms of accepted taxa are lectotypified: Amaryllis equestris Aiton, Bulbostylis curassavica var. pallescens Kk. & Ekman ex Urb., Bulbostylis ekmanii Kk., Bulbostylis papillosa Kk., Crinum amabile Donn ex Ker-Gawl, Cyperus ehrenbergii Kunth, Cyperus filiformis var. densiceps Kk., Eleocharis sintenisii Boeck., Pistia occidentalis Blume, Pitcairnia ramosa J. Jacq., Psilocarya rufa Nees, Rhynchospora longispicata Boeck., Scleria microcarpa var. subeciliata C.B.Clarke, Scleria grisebachii C.B. Clarke, and Xanthosoma atrovirens K. Koch & Bouch. Thirty-two of the taxa treated are newly reported for the flora area: Aechmea fasciata (Lindl.) Baker, Agave vivipara L., Bulbostylis stenocarpa Kk., Calathea crotalifera S. Watson, Carex longii Mack., Commelina rufipes var. glabrata (D.R. Hunt) Faden & D.R. Hunt, Costus malortieanus H. Wendl., Costus scaber Ruiz & Pav., Cyperus floridanus Britton ex Small, Cyperus papyrus L., Cyperus squarrosus L., Cyperus tenuis Sw., Cyperus unifolius Boeck., Eleocharis debilis Kunth, Eleocharis minutiflora Boeck., Eleocharis oligantha C.B. Clarke, Fuirena robusta Kunth, Furcraea stratiotes J. B. Petersen, Halophila engelmannii Asch., Heliconia rostrata Ruiz & Pav., Hydrocleys nymphoides (Willd.) Buchenau, Kyllinga nemoralis (J.R. & G. Forst.) Dandy ex Hutchinson & Dalz., Maranta gibba Sm., Rhynchospora domingensis Urb., Rhynchospora fascicularis subsp. fascicularis var. distans (Michx.) Chapm., Rhynchospora radicans subsp. microcephala (Bertero ex Spreng.) W.W. Thomas, Ruppia didyma Sw., Scleria brittonii Core, Scleria havanensis Britton, Scleria verticillata Muhl. ex Willd., Spathiphyllum wallisii Regel., and Xyris curtissii Malme. El presente tratado constituye una revisin actualizada para los monocotiledneos y los gimnospermos (excluyendo Orchidaceae y Poaceae) de la regin biogeogrfica de Puerto Rico (incluyendo cayos e islotes) y las Islas Vrgenes. En este volumen, se reconocen 33 familias, 118 gneros y 349 especies de monocotiledneos y tres familias, tres gneros y seis especies de gimnospermos. Las Poaceas con un estimado de 89 gneros y 265 especies ser publicada en un prximo volumen de esta serie. Cuando el numero (65 gneros y 145 especies) de Orqudeas (Ackerman, 1995) y el de Poaceas es tomado en consideracin, el numero total de monocotiledneas asciende a 35 familias, 272 gneros y 759 especies. La diferencia en el numero de especies entre el presente tratado y el de Britton y Wilson (1926) es atribuido a los cambios de conceptos de familias, gneros y especies, recientes introducciones, naturalizacin de especies anteriormente introducidas, la exclusin de plantas cultivadas, identificaciones errneas y el descubrimiento de nuevos taxones o de nuevos registros de distribucin en las ultimas 7 dcadas. Los siguientes siete nuevos taxones son aqu descritos: Agave minor Proctor, Bulbostylis capillaris subsp. insulana M.T. Strong, Cyperus pulguerensis M.T. Strong, Guzmania lingulata var. concolor Proctor & Cedeo-Mald., Pitcairnia angustifolia var. simplicior Proctor & Cedeo-Mald., Pitcairnia jareckii Proctor & Cedeo-Mald. y Zephyranthes proctorii Acev.-Rodr. & M.T. Strong, y dos combinaciones nuevas efectuadas: Cyperus subtenuis (Kk.) M.T. Strong y Rhynchospora divaricata (Ham.) M.T. Strong. Los siguientes 21 nombres (o sus basnimos) aqu aceptados son lectotipificados: Aechmea lingulata (L.) Baker, Aechmea nudicaulis (L.) Griseb., Alocasia plumbea Van Houtte, Crocosmia  crocosmiiflora (Lemoine ex Morren) N.E. Brown, Cyperus confertus Sw., Cyperus subtenuis (Kk.) M.T. Strong, Cyperus urbanii Boeck., Eleocharis rostellata (Torr.) Torr., Guzmania monostachia (L.) Mez, Heteranthera limosa (Sw.) Willd., Heteranthera reniformis Ruiz & Pav., Hohenbergia antillana Mez., Neomarica northiana (Schneev.) Sprague, Rajania cordata L., Rhynchospora ciliata (G. Mey.) Kk., Rhynchospora odorata C. Wright ex Griseb., Spathiphyllum wallisii Regel, Tillandsia fasciculata Sw., Tillandsia polystachya (L.) L., y Xanthosoma helleborifolium (Jacq.) Schott. Cuatro nombres son neotipificados: Caladium bicolor (Aiton) Vent., Eleutherine bulbosa (Mill.) Urb., Smilax coriacea Spreng., y Spirodela polyrhiza (L.) Schleid. Un nombre es epitipificado: Anthurium scandens (Aubl.) Engl.. Los siguientes quince sinnimos son lectotificados: Amaryllis equestris Aiton, Bulbostylis curassavica var. pallescens Kk. & Ekman ex Urb., Bulbostylis ekmanii Kk., Bulbostylis papillosa Kk., Crinum amabile Donn ex Ker-Gawl, Cyperus ehrenbergii Kunth, Cyperus filiformis var. densiceps Kk.,Eleocharis sintenisii Boeck., Pistia occidentalis Blume, Pitcairnia ramosa J. Jacq., Psilocarya rufa Nees, Rhynchospora longispicata Boeck., Scleria microcarpa var. subeciliata C.B. Clarke, Scleria grisebachii C.B. Clarke y Xanthosoma atrovirens K. Koch & Bouch. Los siguientes 32 taxones son nuevos registros para el rea cubierta en esta flora: Aechmea fasciata (Lindl.) Baker, Agave vivipara L., Bulbostylis stenocarpa Kk., Calathea crotalifera S. Watson, Carex longii Mack., Commelina rufipes var. glabrata (D.R. Hunt) Faden & D.R. Hunt, Costus malortieanus H. Wendl., Costus scaber Ruiz & Pav., Cyperus floridanus Britton ex Small, Cyperus papyrus L., Cyperus squarrosus L., Cyperus tenuis Sw., Cyperus unifolius Boeck., Eleocharis debilis Kunth, Eleocharis minutiflora Boeck., Eleocharis oligantha C.B. Clarke, Fuirena robusta Kunth, Furcraea stratiotes J. Boye-Petersen, Halophila engelmannii Asch., Heliconia rostrata Ruiz & Pav., Hydrocleys nymphoides (Willd.) Buchenau, Kyllinga nemoralis (J.R. & G. Forst.) Dandy ex Hutchinson & Dalz., Maranta gibba Sm., Rhynchospora domingensis Urb., Rhynchospora fascicularis subsp. fascicularis var. distans (Michx.) Chapm., Rhynchospora radicans subsp. microcephala (Bertero ex Spreng.) W.W. Thomas, Ruppia didyma Sw., Scleria brittonii Core, Scleria havanensis Britton, Scleria verticillata Muhl. ex Willd., Spathiphyllum wallisii Regel. y Xyris curtissii Malme.
23493222|A checklist is provided of the gymnosperms and angiosperms of the Southeast Asian country of Myanmar. This list, containing 273 families, 2,371 genera, and over 11,800 species, is updated from four previous editions dating back to 1912. The list was compiled from earlier lists, an inventory of specimens from select herbaria, advice from taxonomic specialists, and records from Index Kewensis and regional floras of neighboring countries. The entry for each species includes the Latin binomial, author, plant habit, distribution, and common Myanmar and English names. Political and vegetation maps, color plates of some common species and vegetation types, and indices to family, species and common names are provided.
23493177|Nomenclature, taxonomy, synonymy, original publications, type collections, secondary references using the accepted names, and distribution by country and Caribbean region within the New World are presented for taxa within four grass subfamilies: Anomochlooideae, Bambusoideae, Ehrhartoideae, and Pharoideae. Taxonomic synonymy is presented for all taxa at all ranks (other than ranks applying to cultivated taxa) known to occur natively in the New world. In addition, data on introduced species are recorded. The work covers 1294 binomial names, which are denoted as; 1 - accepted, 2 - tentatively accepted, 3 - unknown or of uncertain application, synonyms, or invalid. Names numbered 13 are additionally marked as cultivated in, introduced to, or excluded (2 taxa) from the region. Other works using the accepted names are cited. The number of accepted genera = 72 (51 native, 21 cultivated and/or introduced. The number of accepted or tentatively accepted species = 608 (509 native, 99 introduced), and unknown or of uncertain applications species = 10. A classification of these four subfamilies, Anomochlooideae, Bambusoideae, Ehrhartoideae, and Pharoideae is presented.
23493113|Nomenclature, taxonomy, synonymy, original publications, type collections, secondary references using the accepted names, and distribution by country and Caribbean region within the New World are presented for taxa within the grass subfamily: Pooideae. Taxonomic synonymy is presented for all taxa at all ranks (other than ranks applying to cultivated taxa) known to occur natively, naturalized or cultivated in the New World. In addition, data on introduced species are recorded. The work covers 12098 mononomial, binomial, and trinomial names, which are denoted as; 1 - accepted (bolded), 2 tentatively accepted (bolded), 3 - doubtful or dubious (italicized), synonyms (italicized), and 34 excluded names (plain text). The number of accepted genera = 121 (82 native, 39 introduced) and nothogenera = 11. The number of accepted or tentatively accepted species = 1526 (1311 native, 215 introduced) and nothospecies = 55; 445 infraspecific taxa are recognized (395 native). Accepted names are additionally marked as cultivated (66 species) and/or introduced (216 species) to our region. Other works from the literature using the accepted names are cited. A classification of nine tribes and 23 subtribes is presented. The following 16 names are lectotypified (names in bold are accepted; others are synonyms): Calamagrostis alaskana Kearney, Calamagrostis sect. Calamagris Dumort., Hydrochloa Hartm., Poa acuminata Scribn. ex Beal, Poa andina Nutt. ex S. Watson, Poa andina var. spicata Vasey, Poa cenisia var. virens Griseb., Poa fendleriana var. arizonica T.A. Williams, Poa macrantha Vasey, Poa pulchella var. major Vasey, Poa rupestris Vasey, Poa stenantha var. vivipara Trin., Poa tristigmatica E. Desv., Polypogon sect. Polypogonagrostis Asch. & Graebn., Stipa subg. Nassella Trin., Zeia Lunell. The following 76 new combinations are made: Achnatherum acutum (Swallen) Valds-Reyna & Barkworth, Achnatherum bracteatum (Swallen) Valds-Reyna & Barkworth, Achnatherum constrictum (Hitchc.) Valds-Reyna & Barkworth, Achnatherum editorum (E. Fourn.) Valds-Reyna & Barkworth, Achnatherum hirticulme (S.L. Hatch, Valds-Reyna & Morden) Valds-Reyna & Barkworth, Achnatherum multinode (Scribn. ex Beal) Valds-Reyna & Barkworth, Anatherostipa brevis (Torres) Peailillo, Anatherostipa rosea (Hitchc.) Peailillo, Anthoxanthum monticolum subsp. alpinum (Sw. ex Willd.) Soreng, Calamagrostis amoena var. festucoides (Wedd.) Soreng, Calamagrostis brevifolia var. expansa (Rgolo & X. Villavicencio) Soreng, Calamagrostis cabrerae var. aristulata (Rgolo & X. Villavicencio) Soreng, Calamagrostis cabrerae var. maxima (Rgolo) Soreng, Calamagrostis cabrerae var. trichopoda (Parodi ex Rgolo) Soreng, Calamagrostis chrysantha var. phalaroides (Wedd.) Soreng, Calamagrostis cordechtii var. glabrescens (Rgolo & X. Villavicencio) Soreng, Calamagrostis deserticola var. breviaristata (Rgolo & X. Villavicencio) Soreng, Calamagrostis diemii (Rgolo) Soreng, Calamagrostis eminens var. discreta (Rgolo & X. Villavicencio) Soreng, Calamagrostis eminens var. fulva (Griseb.) Soreng, Calamagrostis gayana (Steud.) Soreng, Calamagrostis gayana var. neuquenensis (Rgolo) Soreng, Calamagrostis ovata var. nivalis (Wedd.) Soreng, Calamagrostis polygama subsp. filifolia (Rgolo & X. Villavicencio) Soreng, Calamagrostis spicigera var. cephalotes (Wedd.) Soreng, Calamagrostis tarmensis var. macrochaeta (Hack.) Soreng, Calamagrostis trichodonta (Wedd.) Soreng, Calamagrostis violacea var. puberula (Rgolo & X. Villavicencio) Soreng, Calamagrostis viridis (Phil.) Soreng, Hesperostipa saxicola (Hitchc.) Valds-Reyna & Barkworth, Jarava academica (Hicken) Peailillo, Jarava ameghinoi var. digona (Parodi) Peailillo, Jarava ameghinoi var. precordillerana (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava arenicola (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava braunblanquetii (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava castellanosii (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava chrysophylla fo. minuta (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava chrysophylla fo. modica (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava chrysophylla var. crispula (Kuntze) Peailillo, Jarava chubutensis var. hirsutissima (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava durifolia (Parodi ex Torres) Peailillo, Jarava frigida var. parvispicula (Parodi) Peailillo, Jarava humilis var. decrescens (Kuntze) Peailillo, Jarava humilis var. ruiziana (Parodi) Peailillo, Jarava hystricina (Speg.) Peailillo, Jarava ibarii var. anomala (Parodi) Peailillo, Jarava ibarii fo. pallescens (Parodi) Peailillo, Jarava media (Speg.) Peailillo, Jarava scabrifolia (Torres) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa fo. abscondita (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa var. atuelensis (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa var. breviglumis (Parodi) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa var. ciliata (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa fo. horrida (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa var. major (Speg.) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa var. manqueclensis (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa var. media (Torres) Peailillo, Jarava speciosa var. parva (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava vaginata fo. contracta (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava vaginata fo. inmersa (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava vaginata fo. laevis (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava vaginata fo. rigida (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava vaginata var. argyroidea (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Jarava vaginata var. dilatata (F.A. Roig) Peailillo, Peyritschia conferta (Pilg.) Finot, Peyritschia deyeuxioides (Kunth) Finot, Peyritschia humilis (Louis-Marie) Finot, Piptatherum shoshoneanum (Curto & Douglass M. Hend.) P. M. Peterson & Soreng, Poa alopecurus subsp. prichardii (Rendle) Giussani & Soreng, Poa hartzii subsp. vrangelica (Tzvelev) Soreng & L.J. Gillespie, Poa sect. Parodiochloa (C.E. Hubb.) Soreng, Poa spiciformis var. ibari (Phil.) Giussani, Rostraria trachyantha (Phil.) Soreng, Trisetum barbatipaleum (Hulten ex Veldkamp) Finot, Trisetum dianthemum (Louis-Marie) Finot. One mononomial is transferred to a new rank in tribe Poeae: subtribe Scolochloinae (Tzvelev) Soreng. Three new subtribes are described in tribe Poeae: Puccinelliinae Soreng & J.I Davis, Scribneriinae Soreng & J. I Davis, Torreyochloinae Soreng & J. I Davis.
23493216|Part I provides the collector's notes on trips in chronological order. Part II lists collection localities, with collection number ranges, habitat descriptions, geographic coordinates, and assisting collectors. Part III consists of maps of Guyana showing collecting localites. Part IV lists collections in numerical order with identifications and authors. Part V lists collections ordered by determined name. The appendix is a personal account by the collector describing some of her experiences while collecting plants in Guyana.
23492596|Part I, lists in alphabetical order, all verified species and infraspecific taxa, including complete synonymy, literature citation, assignment to the sections, and geographical distributions. All recognized species are cross referenced to the subkeys in Part II by the illustration numbers. In Part II, all the known taxa of Begoniaceae (exclusive of hybrids and cultivars) are initially keyed into 34 subkeys. They are abridged and subsequently the new taxa are keyed to recognized species. The new species are illustrated from a photo of the available holotype or type specimen.
23493267|The present book constitutes an illustrated field guide to the native, naturalized, or commonly cultivated vines and lianas of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. It includes nomenclatural and taxonomic revisions, discussions on the distribution and conservation status, as well as full descriptions and illustrations for the species. A total of 386 species distributed in 64 families and 187 genera are treated. Of these 274 are native, 34 are endemic, 64 have been naturalized and approximately 49 are commonly cultivated in gardens. A new combination of Aristolochia oblongata Jacq. ssp calciformis (Urb.) R.Rankin & Acev.-Rodr. is made. La presente obra constituye una gua para los bejucos y plantas trepadoras, nativas, naturalizadas o comnmente cultivadas que se encuentran en Puerto Rico y las Islas Vrgenes. En sta se han actualizado la nomenclatura y taxonoma y se incluyen datos de la distribucin y estado de conservacin de las especies. Cada especie es descrita e ilustrada. En total se tratan 386 especies, distribuidas en 64 familias y 187 gneros. De stas, 274 son nativas, 34 son endmicas, 64 son naturalizadas y alrededor de 49 son comnmente cultivadas en nuestros jardines. La nueva combinacin Aristolochia oblongata Jacq. ssp calciformis (Urb.) R.Rankin & Acev.-Rodr. es efectuada.
23493219|Seventy-seven species and three infraspecific taxa in 19 sections of Rhynchospora Vahl nom. conserv. (Cyperaceae) are found to occur in the Guianas (Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana), South America. A new section, Stipitatae M. T. Strong is described. Two synonyms of accepted taxa are lectotypified: Rhynchospora filiformis var. latifolia Uittien and Rhynchospora graminea Uittien. The species were taxonomically evaluated and circumscribed based on laboratory studies of micromorphological achene characters utilizing SEM, morphological herbarium studies of dried specimen collections, information on relationships between species from other studies published in the literature, habitat characterization, and distribution patterns. The infrageneric classification of Rhynchospora is discussed and morphological characteristics of the genus and recent cytological advances are reviewed. A taxonomic treatment is provided that includes a key to species, full detailed descriptions, distribution maps, SEM photomicrographs of all 80 taxa including images of the whole achene (fruit) and detail of the pericarp, line drawings for selected species, and notes on habitat, distribution, nomenclature, and distinguishing features.
