25027754|Amphipods have many different types of setae with varying microstructures, including a decorated tip on the presumptive chemosensory setae. The setae show variations in microstructure that may be used for systematic and phylogenetic studies. These setal structures have been arranged into a classification to help in systematic descriptions of setal types and of their distributions on amphipods.
25027568|Two new species of copepods, both parasites of economically important fishes, are described as Caritus tolii and Nemesis sphyrnae, respectively.
25027756|Seventy species of Amphipoda have been recorded from three islands in the northern Sporades (Greece). Thirteen sites, differing in depth, substrate and exposure, were sampled, and it has been attempted to correlate occurrence of the amphipods with environmental factors, by the means of a principle component analysis.
25027581|The species of Aniculus are littoral pagurids widely distributed in the tropical Indo-Pacific area, usually associated with coral formations. They belong to the family Diogenidae and were, until recently, considered as represented by three species: A. aniculus Fabricius, the most frequently mentioned, with a wide range from the East African coast to Polynesia and Japan, A. maximus Edmondson, limited to the Hawaiian Islands, and A. elegans Stimpson, from the Pacific America. A fourth species, A. retipes Lewinsohn, has been described from the northern part of the Red Sea in 1982. The present revision, founded on the examination of more than 250 specimens, shows that three species have been confused under the name of A. aniculus, i.e.: A. ursus (Olivier), formerly erroneously synonymized with A. aniculus (Fabricius), occurring from the Mozambique Channel to the western Pacific (Loyalty Isl.): the real A. aniculus, whose distribution appears rather complementary to that of the other species occurring in the Pacific, reaching eastward the Marquesas and Gambier Islands; and A. miyakei, endemic in Japan and described here as new. The study of the available material has also led to establish two other new species, A. erythraeus, from the Red Sea and Sri Lanka, and A. sibogae, from New Guinea and New Hebrides. In addition, the known distributions of A. maximus and A. retipes have been considerably extended. After a brief historical review on the genus and an account of the steps taken in its revision, the systematical study starts with a diagnosis of the family Diogenidae and a key to the 14 included genera. The general features of the genus Aniculus are described, and its relationships within the family discussed. It appears that Aniculus is possibly related to Dardanus and Petrochirus, with which it presents some common characteristics, such as the trifurcate pleopods in the females. Two keys for the species of Aniculus are given, one based on morphological characters, the other on color patterns in spirit preserved material. The treatment of each species includes a list of references and synonymies, a full description, and remarks on taxonomy, size and distribution. The systematic account is followed by three chapters devoted to general remarks: 1) relative size of the different species, and intraspecific variations in relation with size; 2) sex-ratio and sexual dimorphism; 3) geographical distribution and ecology. As an appendix to this revision, the glaucothoe stage of the genus Aniculus is described for the first time, from two different species; some of the specimens are identified as A. aniculus, and are the largest of Pagurids glaucothoes; they are compared with those of Petrochirus and Dardanus. Some peculiarities of this stage in Aniculus confirm that its relationships with the two other genera is remote.
25027440|A morphological and histochemical study of the amoebocytes of the cavernicolous amphipod Niphargus virei revealed the following points: 1) The haemolymph contains two principal cell types: hyaline leucocytes and granulocytes, with all the intermediary types between the two. 2) The leucopoietic organ is found in the same place as in Gammarus pulex. 3) The amoebocytes have several different functions: agglutination (all cells contribute), phagocytosis and excretion (only the cells of the intermediary stage come into action). 4) Existence of special cells "nephrophagocytes", on the walls of the heart and of a few afferent and efferent vessels.
25027380|Description de Dichelina seticauda, nouvelle espce de Coppode cyclopode endoparasite d'un chinide abyssal, Hygrosoma hoplacantha (Wyv. Thomson), trouve au large de Celebes, Indonsie.
25027558|The family Chondracanthidae contains parasites of marine demersal fishes. They are characteristic in having a highly transformed female carrying a much less modified pygmy male. They attach by means of the modified hook-like second antennae. There are 39 species out of ca. 150 chondracanthids, carrying at the base of this pair of appendages an enigmatic structure called accessory antennule, which is merely a small digitiform process tipped with various numbers of setae and/or spines. To live successfully in the oral and branchial cavities of fish, parasites are required to have a powerful attachment apparatus. The chondracanthid accessory antennule is postulated to be a remnant of the development of such an organ. It is speculated that the Chondracanthidae have originated from some Scambicornus-like sabelliphilids and their modified hook-like second antennae was evolved through (1) consolidation of the first and the second segments (to form the basal piece) and (2) fusion of the claw on the third segment with its segment proper (to form the terminal hook). Thus, the originally reduced and offset terminal (fourth) segment was either lost or retained as an accessory antennule at the base of the powerful terminal hook of the modern chondracanthids.
25027462|Eine Population von Gammarus minus Say in einem Quellbach des Roanoke-River-Abflusystems (Virginia, USA) wurde untersucht. Die Gre der Individuen reichte von etwa 2 bis 8 mm Krperlnge, und die mittlere Gelegegre pro eitragendes Weibchen betrug 5,0. Es wurde festgestellt, da die Weibchen whrend der Fortpflanzungszeit mnnliche Genitalpapillen aufwiesen. Kleine Gammariden von 2 oder 3 mm Lnge bevorzugten unbewachsenes Kiessubstrat, whrend die greren Tiere von mehr als 5 mm in der Brunnenkresse (Nasturtium) berwogen. Entfernung der Brunnenkresse ergab einen sprbaren Rckgang in der Abundanz von G. minus, und zwar vorwiegend bei den mehr als 5 mm langen, greren Individuen. Die unterschiedliche Hufigkeit der verschiedenen Grenklassen in den beiden Habitaten, wie auch die Dezimierung besonders der greren Tiere durch Entfernen der Brunnenkresse, konnte teilweise auf die Partikelgre im Kiessubstrat zurckgefhrt werden. Es gab einen Trend zunehmender Hufigkeit grerer Tiere parallel zur Zunahme der mittleren Korngre im Kiessubstrat.
25027456|A multiple choice apparatus is presented which enables to determine the preference of aquatic animals for a range of five different salt solutions. It allows to maintain a stable range of different concentrations as long as necessary. An example of its application was given: the preference of Gammarus fossarum from the Leichborn spring near Mainz (Rhineland-Palatinate, FRG) for chloride has been determined at a temperature of 20 C to be 0,03-0,12 Cl-; this result corresponds to the mean values of chlorinity in the natural environment of the populations.
25027576|Extensive information, relevant to taxonomy, was found to be present on the basipodite of the antennae (A2) in Mesocyclops. Distinctive patterns could be distinguished in the occurrence of groups of spines and teeth on the basipodite. They provide a basis for identifying species, and, within the genus, a basic pattern appears to be common to all species. As an example, African representatives of Mesocyclops, from about 200 localities spread all over the African continent, have been revised. Beside the structure of the antennae, other morphological characters were also used. Eleven species and one subspecies are recognized. In addition, some non-African Mesocyclops species are briefly treated, and interbreeding experiments performed on African and European populations are discussed.
25027566|During the period October 1979 - August 1980, the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research, in cooperation with the University of Miami, Florida, supported a program of plankton sampling in the Arabian Gulf from the latitude of Kuwait to the Straits of Hormuz. This report concerns the copepods collected with a 110 m mesh net at two stations in Kuwait Bay and 12 in Kuwaiti waters. Of the 40 genera and species recognized, 17 are new records for the Arabian Gulf, among them, Paracalanus crassirostris, the most numerous metazoan planktonic organism. Following it in abundance were Oithona spp., Temora turbinata, Euterpina acutifrons, Microsetella rosea, Corycaeus spp., Acrocalanus gibber, Acartia spp., Paracalanus aculeatus, and Oncaea conifera. The major groups occurred in proportions similar to those recorded elsewhere in tropical and subtropical seas: 53% Calanoida, 36% Cyclopoida, and 11% Harpacticoida. A factor analysis program indicated associations of six taxa in Kuwait Bay and nearshore coastal stations and of 11 taxa at offshore locations in Kuwaiti waters. Fluctuations in numbers of nauplii, copepodites, and adults showed that reproduction continues year-round, with maxima of most species occurring in summer, others in spring and fall, and many having secondary maxima after lapses of three to six months. Alternations in reproductive periods of dominant species may represent adaptations of this diverse population to an environment stressed by pollutants, high temperatures and salinities, and other factors.
25027477|Frisch geschlpfte Larven der beiden Krebsarten, Pilumnus dasypodus Kingsley und P. sayi Rathbun, wurden bis zum ersten Krebsstadium aufgezogen. Eine genaue Beschreibung der 4 Zoea-Stadien und eines Megalopa-Stadiums von P. dasypodus wird gegeben. Die hnlichkeiten und die Hauptunterschiede bei den Entwicklungsstadien von P. dasypodus und P. sayi werden herausgestellt; auerdem werden die Unterschiede zwischen den beiden Pilumnus Arten und anderen Arten der Xanthidae, die bisher in den USA gezuchtet wurden, errtert.
25027514|Des Amphipodes Gammarides provenant de cours d'eau de montagnes ont t recueilli en 72 localits de Core du Sud de 1965  1978. De leur examen, il rsulte que cinq espces dulaquicoles de Gammarus existent dans cette rgion; leur distribution est montre sur la figure 18. Gammarus odaensis, Gammarus soyoensis, Gammarus zeongogensis et Gammarus galgosensis sont nouveaux pour la science. Gammarus (Rivulogammarus) pulex sobaegensis Uno, 1966 est lev au rang d'espce (i.e., Gammarus sobaegensis). Cette dernire espce est largement distribue en Core du Sud et prsente des variations locales significatives. En se fondant sur ces variations, l'espce peut tre divise en 7 types locaux suivant la disposition des soies sur les bords ventraux des segments pdonculaires 4 et 5 de la seconde antenne, sur les priopodes 3 et 4, et sur le priopode 7.
25027487|Un nouveau genre, Pseudomunida, de la famille des Chirostylidae, est cr pour une nouvelle espce, P. fragilis, qui fut rcolte en eau profonde aux les Hawa. Pseudomunida est voisin d'Eumunida, de laquelle elle diffre principalement par la prsence d'une seule paire d'pines supraorbitales et par l'absence d'pines hpatiques sur la surface dorsale de la carapace.
25027465|Niphargus elegans Garbini, 1894, aus Italien wird neu beschrieben und abgebildet. Die Variabilitt und die Verbreitung dieser Art in Italien wird vorgelegt und diskutiert.
25027468|In allen polnischen Populationen von Gammarus fossarum treten regelmig Calceoli auf; dieses entspricht den Verhltnissen bei G. fossarum-   der topotypischen Population (Weichselmhle bei Regensburg, B.R.D.). Nur bei juvenilen   knnen Calceoli fehlen. In Polen sind zwei Formen von G. fossarum verbreitet. Fr einige ihrer Merkmale wird eine klinale Variation von Sd nach Nord und von West nach Ost vermutet. In Material von Gammarus kischineffensis aus Polen, Rumnien und der Ukraine wurden zwei Formen erkannt, deren Unterscheidungsmerkmale mitgeteilt werden.
25027522|La distribution cologique de Gammarus roeselii a t tudie dans le cours infrieur d'une rivire o G. pulex et G. fossarum taient galement prsents. Tandis que G. fossarum frquente le cours suprieur, les deux autres espces se trouvent surtout dans les parties moyenne et infrieure de la rivire, G. roeselii occupant les parties vaseuses et calmes prs des rives. L'effet de la temprature sur le mtabolisme respiratoire de G. roeselii a t mesur dans les mmes situations exprimentales que chez les Gammarids G. pulex, G. fossarum et G. lacustris, en eau calme ou agite, avec ou sans substrat artificiel (tissu  mailles). L'activit des Gammarids a t observe simultanment. Sauf  25 C, le mtabolisme respiratoire et l'activit locomotrice taient les plus faibles en eau calme et sur substrat artificiel.
25027757|The morphological structure of the calceoli of two species in two different families of freshwater amphipods was compared utilizing scanning (SEM) and transmission (TEM) electron microscopy, supplemented with light microscopy. SEM revealed major structural differences between Crangonyx richmondensis Ellis (s.l.) and Gammarus minus Say. TEM, and light microscopy failed to reveal innervation of the calceoli of either species, therefore casting doubt on an earlier suggestion that this structure is a chemoreceptor. However, the structure of the calceolus suggests that it might be a mechanoreceptor.
25027437|In cross-breeding experiments, males and females of Gammarus pulex (L.) and G. fossarum Koch can form mixed couples in both possible combinations. Copulation takes place shortly after moulting of the female. The sperm of the male stimulates oviposition in the female of both G. pulex and G. fossarum. Cleavage of some eggs starts just after oviposition. Nevertheless the two species are intersterile, the isolating mechanism consisting of: (1) the preference of the males to mate with conspecific females, (2) better linkage within conspecific precopulated pairs, and (3) after fertilisation, hybrid eggs do not develop beyond the early morula stages. The plumosity of the setae on the exopod of the 3rd uropod, a character on which the presence of intermediates (in nature) between G. pulex and G. fossarum was presumed, proved to be typical for very old and large males of G. fossarum.
25027527|L'identification par Weise (1953) de trois espces de Gammarus qui habitent Elm Spring tait impossible en raison de certaines obscurits taxonomiques. Entreprises par Bousfield (1958) et Cole (1970b), les recherches taxonomiques sur les Amphipodes d'Amrique du Nord ont rendu possible l'identification de ces trois espces sympatriques d'un ruisseau issu d'une source calcaire, dans le sud de l'Illinois. Gammarus troglophilus est une des quatre espces animales les plus abondantes dans ce ruisseau stnotherme; il n'a pas t observ de prfrence pour une sous-couche. Ces quatre espces comprennent 96 pour cent des animaux rcolts au cours de cette tude. G. troglophilus cohabite dans le ruisseau avec G. minus pinicollis, G. pseudolimnaeus, et Phagocata gracilis. Gammarus troglophilus consomme surtout des feuilles d'orme, qui abondent pendant toute l'anne. Il est tout  fait possible que ces feuilles portent des myctes aquatiques qui sont la source de l'alimentation. Les Gammarids se reproduisent pendant toute l'anne. Les mles mrs sont susceptibles de vivre plus longtemps que les femelles, et sont plus grands et plus nombreux que ces dernires. Ils prennent l'une des deux positions de prhension pendant la prcopulation (amplexus). 30 semaines environ sont ncessaires pour que les Gammarids arrivent  maturit. La vie prsume est de 52 semaines environ. Les prdateurs possibles de ces animaux sont Chologaster agassizi, Phagocata gracilis, les larves et adultes de Salamandre et d'autres Amphipodes.
25027449|Some data were available about troglobitic rhythms in the hypogean genus Niphargus, data obtained through analysis of the periodicity of the female egg-laying in various populations. But no results for males were known. A study of the spermatogenesis in the species Niphargus virei has been undertaken to this end. First, this work has shown that the testes of N. virei and Orchestia gammarellus (a terrestrial talitrid amphipod) show a great functional resemblance. Then, studies of the seasonal variations in the intensity of spermatogenesis and of the annual repartition of "testicular phases", have confirmed that the reproductive rhythm of the troglobite Niphargus is not much different as compared to that of an epigean species. Questions remain about the "absolute duration" of certain phases of the testicular cycle.
25027535|If one accepts Kabata's (1979) view on the primitivity of the bottomliving vermiform Harpacticoida-like copepods, then the section Polyarthra Lang is a very likely candidate for representing the most ancestral type among the living Copepoda. Of the two families of the section, the Longipediidae are considered to be a homogeneous and specialized group - despite their aberrant and eventually primitive nauplius. The Canuellidae are a very heterogeneous family which contains many genera, eventually representing an evolutionary series. The plesiomorphic characters of the Canuellidae are: the free second thoracic somite; the 3-segmented antennal endopodite and 7-segmented antennal exopodite; the big mandibular and maxillular palps; the partly divided genital complex; the copulatory apparatus of the male; the musculature of the last abdominal somite and furcal bases; the variability of the leg-armature and of the secondary sexual characters of the legs. Apomorphic features would be the reduced fifth leg; the nauplius; the foliaceous maxilliped. Among the Canuellidae, Canuella and Sunaristes are considered to be the most primitive genera, while Brianola and Indicanuella are the most derivative ones. An attempt is made to schematize also the evolution of the male copulatory apparatus, a unique feature among the Copepoda. The tropical and mainly Indopacific distribution of the family has to be emphasized.
25027417|A description and illustrations of the larval and juvenile stages of Pseudione affinis (G. O. Sars) are provided, based on material found on the shrimp Dichelopandalus bonnieri Caullery from the Clyde area, Scotland.
25027436|Description et figuration d'une nouvelle espce d'Amphipode, Idunella demersalis sp. nov., de la cte de Kerala, Inde.
25027387|Description du premier stade phyllosome de Panulirus versicolor (Latr.) et des autres Palinuridae indiens connus, P. dasypus (Latr.) (= P. homarus (L.), selon Gordon, 1953) et P. polyphagus (Herbst). L'auteur passe en revue les premires phyllosomes provenant des eaux indiennes et non identifies jusqu' prsent.
25027515|Il n'existe que douze espces nommes du genre Gammarus dans les eaux douces et saumtres d'Amrique du Nord. Le palpe mandibulaire, tri-articul, permet d'tablir les distinctions entre les espces. L'armature de l'article distal a t symbolise par G. S. Karaman (1969) ainsi qu'il suit: soies A, implantes sur la surface externe; soies B, implantes sur la surface interne; soies C, sveltes, droites, sur le bord interne prs de la marge postrieure, pines D, implantes en rang comme un peigne sur la marge postrieure et soies E, longues, fortes, groupes au bout de l'article. L'armature du deuxime article et celle de l'article basal reoivent ici les dsignations suivantes: soies , comme les E, mais implantes en rang submarginal externe prs de la marge postrieure; soies , droites, sveltes, implantes sur la marge postrieure, soies , rares, implantes prs de la marge postrieure ou sur la surface externe ou interne, proximale; et les soies , sur l'article basal. Seuls G. tigrius, G. fasciatus, G. pecos, G. hyalelloides et une espce semblable, non nomme, du Nouveau Mexique possdent les soies C. Seul G. duebenii porte les soies . G. lacustris, G. pseudolimnaeus et G. troglophilus possdent des soies A et B allonges; G. minus et G. acherondytes possdent des soies A et B courtes. G. bousfieldi a un palpe trapu et des pines D robustes. Les autres caractres qui sparent les espces sont discuts.
25027469|Une rvision des taxa appartenant au groupe kochianus du genre Niphargus de provenance de l'Europe occidentale est prsente. La forme nominale, N. k. kochianus, de l'Angleterre mridionale, est redcrite; les mles de cette sous-espce sont signals pour la premire fois. N. k. irlandicus est galement redcrite; elle se prsente sous deux formes morphologiquement diffrentes, l'une des eaux hypoges, l'autre des fonds des "loughs" (lacs). Le mle d'irlandicus, jusqu'ici inconnu, est dcrit. Une forme des Pays-Bas et de la Belgique, considre jusqu'ici comme identique  N. k. kochianus, est en ralit une sous-espce indpendante, nomme N. k. dimorphopus, surtout caractrise par le dimorphisme sexuel trs prononc des gnathopodes 2. Finalement, le taxon pachypus, partiellement sympatrique avec N. k. dimorphopus, quoique plus largement rpandu dans l'Europe occidentale continentale, ne peut plus tre considr comme sous-espce de kochianus, mais doit recevoir un statut au niveau spcifique. Une analyse mathmatique (pourcentages de concordance bass sur 24 caractres morphologiques) plaide en faveur de la division du groupe kochianus en trois sous-espces (kochianus s. str., dimorphopus n. ssp., et irlandicus) et une espce vraie, pachypus.
25027544|The authors report the results of chemical analyses performed in some rockpools of the Spanish Mediterranean coast and of the determination of the contents of fatty acids in Tigriopus fulvus populations collected in those rockpools. As regards the chemical analyses of waters, the parameters examined show an increase of the concentration of salts compared to sea water. The results of the analytical determinations of lipids of samples of Tigropus fulvus show that some acids, present with high concentration, are found in males and in females (16:0, 16:1, 18:0, 18:1), while some others are characteristic of eggs (14:0, 20:1), which are responsible for an increase in the concentration of these acids in (egg-bearing) females with respect to males. The percentage of the saturated, mono-unsaturated, and poly-unsaturated fatty acids composing the total figure, is also reported.
25027498|Le dveloppement larvaire de Micratya poeyi a t suivi en laboratoire. L'auteur donne une description dtaille et une illustration de chaque stade larvaire.
25027398|On a dtermin la diffrence entre le dveloppement larvaire de Metasesarma rubripes (Rathbun) et celui de quelques espces du genre Sesarma, qui vivent dans des conditions cologiques comparables. Le dveloppement larvaire de M. rubripes et celui de Sesarma ricordi H. Milne Edwards ont t observs dans le laboratoire depuis l'closion jusqu'au premier stade juvenile. Mille cinq cent larves de douze femelles porteuses d'oeufs de M. rubripes et neuf cent provenant de sept femelles porteuses d'oeufs de S. ricordi ont t maintenues dans des conditions constantes de temprature et de salinit (27  1C, 19  1 S.), claires pendant des priodes de neuf  douze heures et alimentes avec des nauplies de Artemia salina. Quatre stades de zo et un de mgalope ont t trouvs chez les deux espces. Les stades de zo de S. ricordi montrent dans le protopodite de l'antenne deux ranges de dents bien dveloppes qui sont moins videntes chez M. rubripes. Entre la mgalope et le premier stade de crabe de M. rubripes on a observ les diffrences les plus marques. Dans quatre cultures additionelles de M. rubripes on a trouv de notables variations dans le telson et le rostre de la mgalope. Les diffrences entre M. rubripes et S. ricordi dans les premiers stades de dveloppement ne sont pas plus importantes que celles entre S. ricordi et d'autres espces du genre Sesarma.
25027457|Data are given on tolerance, preference, concentration of hemolymph, and oxygen consumption of Gammarus fossarum exposed to different combinations of NaCl and temperature (6, 12, 20, 26C). For comparison a few data of Gammarus pulex and G. roeselii are added.
25027427|Au cours des expditions hydrobiologiques aux Kouriles en 1967 (pour l'tage msolittoral) et en 1969 (pour les tages infralittoral et circalittoral), 6 espces de Tanaidacea ont t recueillies. Les localits de rcolte sont mentionnes et deux espces nouvelles pour la science sont dcrites: Paratanais impressus et Heterotanais modestus.
25027516|L'auteur prsente les changements rcents survenus dans la distribution gographique de quelques Gammaroids dans les eaux continentales europennes. La construction de canaux qui ont fait communiquer des bassins diffrents et les introductions volontaires d'espces sont les principales raisons de ces changements. La rpartition gographique actuellement connue en Europe pour des espces comme Gammarus tigrinus, G. roeselii, G. varsoviensis, Chaetogammarus ischnus sowinskyi, Chaetogammarus warpachowskyi, Dikerogammarus haemobaphes, Obesogammarus crassus, Pontogammarus robustoides, Amathillina cristata, Gmelinoides fasciatus et Corophium curvispinum est fournie sous forme de cartes. D'autres espces sont brivement mentionnes.
25027378|Description of a new genus and species of cyclopoid copepods, Vectoriella marinovi, parasitic on a polychaet annelid, Aricidea jeffreysii (M'Intosh) from the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. The copepod belongs to the family Nereicolidae; a key to the genera of this family is provided.
25027750|Une nouvelle espce du genre Pseudoniphargus (Amphipoda) est dcrite des eaux douces souterraines du Maroc. Une analyse cladistique montre les relations phylogntiques des diverses espces et rvle l'apomorphie de la forme marocaine. Un processus vicariant, le "Regression Model Evolution" (Stock, 1980), permet d'expliquer la rpartition actuelle du genre et de dater la spciation qui a pu se produire  partir de l'Eocne suprieur jusqu'au Pliocne. Un cladogramme simplifi des rgressions marines corrobore les rsultats phylogntiques.
25027497|Fnf Garnelenarten wurden von der Littoralzone bei Panama City Beach, Golf von Mexiko, gesammelt und dokumentiert. Die Arten sind: Ogyrides alphaerostris, Tozeuma cornutum, Ambidexter symmetricus, Processa hemphilli und Processa vicina. Diese Angaben vergrssern das bis jetzt bekannte Verbreitungsgebiet von T. cornutum und P. hemphilli. Die in der Nhe des Ufers gelegene Zone besteht aus einem weissen Sandstrand mit zwei parallel zur Kstenlinie liegenden Sandbnken. Die Oberflchensedimente bestanden aus ber 99.7% Sand und waren beinahe einheitlich in Bezug auf die Verteilung der Partikelgrsse, des totalen und organischen Kohlenstoffes und der kohlensauren Salze.
25027551|Bilaterally asymmetrical characters in the calanoid copepod genus Pleuromamma are described; most are found in the reproductive system. All asymmetrical characters on an animal show unique concordance; their positions on the body are always fixed relative to one another. Together, however, their positions on the left or right side of the body may change from one animal to another; that is populations may exhibit dimorphic asymmetry. All species exhibit dimorphic asymmetry although frequency of expression varies among species and sometimes between sexes. Both pleiotropy and linkage are considered as controlling factors for this unique concordance of asymmetrical characters. Causal factors briefly discussed include strict inheritance and environment. The process of pleiotropy is examined within the broader framework of calanoid evolution.
25027545|Es wurde beobachtet dass adulte Individuen von Thermocyclops crassus aus brasilianischen Gewssern sich ernahren von Chironomiden-Larven des ersten Stadiums. Die Larve wird entweder am Kopf oder am Hinterende angegriffen. Es wird weiter rapportiert dass T. crassus Populationsschwankungen in bezug der Konzentration von blauen Algen (Cyanophycea) zeigt: bei hohen Algenkonzentration verringert sich die Populationsdichte der Copepode. Die taxonomische Stellung der afrikanischen und sd-amerikanischen Formen von Thermocyclops crassus wird als bis jetzt undeutlich erwiesen.
25027541|Deux nouvelles espces sympatriques du genre Ctenocalanus, C. campaneri et C. tageae, sont ici dcrites de la Golfe d'Elat (Mer Rouge). Les diffrences entre ces espces apartiennent du tableau I et des figures 1-23.
25027363|L'auteur fournit des donnes sur quelques Coppodes marins provenant du Norfolk (Grande Bretagne), dont deux espces (Asterocheres ellisi et Agnathaner freemani) sont nouvelles pour la science.
25027504|Sept espces de Pontoniinae sont rapportes de l'atoll Eniwetok, Iles Marshall. Une de ces espces est nouvelle: Periclimenes ornatellus spec. nov. commensale de l'anmone gante Radianthus malu. Cinq autres espces sont rapportes ici pour la premire fois des Iles Marshall et pour quelques unes des htes nouveaux sont nots. Les connaissances actuelles des associations entre les espces indopacifiques de Periclimenes et les actinies sont resumes.
25027448|Inzucht fhrt bei dem Brackwasser-Amphipoden Gammarus duebenii Liljeborg zu einer betrchtlichen Abnahme der relativen Fitness. Unter den Fitnesskomponenten wurden insbesondere die Viabilitt sowie ferner die Fekunditt, Schlupfrate und Wachstumsintensitt quantitativ untersucht. Nach 3 durch Geschwisterpaarung erzielten Inzuchtgenerationen trat in der Regel ein weitgehender Zusammenbruch der Zuchtstmme zutage. Dieser Befund weist auf das Vorliegen einer hohen Homozygoten-Brde hin. Kreuzungen von Inzuchtlinien mit nichtverwandten Stmmen bewirkten deutliche Heterosiseffekte bei den Nachkommenschaften. Es wird angenommen, da natrliche Populationen von Gammarus duebenii eine hohe genetische Brde tragen, die, worauf Berechnungen hinweisen, vorwiegend als balanciert anzusehen ist. Aus den populationsgenetischen Befunden werden einige kologische Schlufolgerungen gezogen und diskutiert.
25027758|Ten stygobiont amphipod genera (Niphargus, Haploginglymus, Pseudoniphargus, Salentinella, Crangonyx, Bogidiella, Sensonator, Metahadzia, Rhipidogammarus, and an undescribed new genus) are found in the Iberian peninsula. The geographical ranges, habitats, and co-occurrences of the genera with one another, are discussed. A first attempt is made to divide the peninsula into areas characterized by presence or absence of these amphipods.
25027413|The development of the desert isopod, Hemilepistus aphganicus Borutsky, 1958, was studied in both sexes. During the seasonal activity period, the development takes place in 6 moults into the pre-adult stage. In this stage, hibernation in a brother-sister community takes place. The number of ommatids in the complex eye increases during the six moulting stages from 5 to around 26.
25027450|Niphargus has been considered a stably unpigmented animal by Vandel (1964). Still, when extracts of specimens of N. virei, which were particularly well-coloured "pink-orange", were separated by thin layer chromatography, 4 carotenoid pigments have been extracted. This revives the question of pigmentation in the subterranean world. Using artificial food enriched with different carotenoids some experiments on re-pigmentation of N. virei and N. rhenorhodanensis have been conducted. In no case did we obtain positive results. It seems that we need more "natural conditions" for this kind of work. In the present paper, I have tried to explain and discuss some of the results obtained.
25027521|A biochemical study was made on Niphargus virei populations from a karstic habitat and Niphargus rhenorhodanensis populations from a superficial phreatic habitat. Protein, lipid and carbohydrate measurements determined during experimental starvation showed important differences between the two species. The protein and carbohydrate decreases are proportionally more important in N. rhenorhodanensis than in N. virei. The lipid content of N. virei individuals was greater than the lipid content of the phreatic N. rhenorhodanensis. The results may be interpreted as adaptations to subterranean life.
25027520|Proteins, carbohydrates and lipids were studied in laboratory reared populations of phreatic Niphargus rhenorhodanensis both under experimental starvation and under natural diet conditions. All concentrations decreased rapidly and became very low after six months of these conditions. Concentrations of these constituants were higher in animals placed in a reconstitution of their natural biotope, but the differences were small and indicate starvation under both conditions.
25027573|No specialized Copepoda associated with stylasterine hydrocorals were recorded thus far. Six different species, in four related genera, of Copepoda (all new), belonging to the family Asterocheridae (suborder Siphonostomatoidea) have been discovered on four different species of Stylasterina from the South West Pacific. The copepods form cage-like galls, which may contain females, males and nauplii. The size of the perforations in the gall wall is such, that only the nauplii can escape from the galls. One species of coral may harbour as many as three different genera and species of Copepoda. The gall of each copepod species has a distinctive morphology, and appears to develop from the coral's cyclosystem after infection by an early stage (2nd copepodid?) of the copepod.
25027512|Le spcimen type de Niphargus fontanus Bate, 1859 est redcrit. Les figures sont faites  partir de l'un des deux spcimens mles dposs comme types dans la collection de Crustacs du British Museum (Natural History). L'un des spcimens est dsign comme lectotype. Quelques comparaisons sont faites avec la description et les figures plus anciennes de C. Spence Bate.
25027391|Zwei scyllaride Phyllosoma-Larven vom Golf von Kalifornien und von der Westkste Mittelamerikas werden beschrieben und abgebildet. Die am hufigsten vorhandene Larve, bei der alle Stadien gefunden wurden ausser zweien, ist auf Evibacus princeps Smith zurckzufhren - das einzige Scyllarid, welches im Bezirk vorkommt. Die zweite Larve hnelt der Beschreibung fr Thenus? (Gurney, 1936), eine bisher von der Westkste nicht gemeldete Gattung. Bis weitere Studien an erwachsenen Scyllariden von diesem Bezirk durchgefhrt werden knnen, wird es hier Phyllosoma x genannt.
25027575|The survivability of resting eggs of neritic calanoids was greatly influenced in organically polluted Fukuyama Harbor. Eggs of the summer-fall species, Acartia erythraea and Tortanus forcipatus, could survive for the overwintering resting period at the inner harbor area, while those of A. pacifica could not. Eggs of A. clausi, a winter-spring form, could survive for the aestivating period only at the outer harbor. Since anoxic bottom conditions were strongest in summer, owing to thermal stratification, it might be that viability of the aestivating eggs of the cold-water copepods would be reduced the most. Viable eggs remained only at the stations where the bottom sediment was oxidized. However, for the bottom sediment where ignition loss and hydrogen sulfide were higher than 12% and 0.1 mg
25027563|L'analyse de 1200 chantillons planctoniques pris rgulirement  l'aide d'un filet WP2 au large de la cte libanaise, a mis en vidence 103 espces de coppodes appartenant pour la plupart  des formes piplanctoniques d'eau tempre chaude. Parmi ces espces, 9 sont des formes indo-pacifiques: Calanopia elliptica, C. media, Labidocera detruncata, L. orsinii, L. pavo, L. agilis, L. madurae, Acartia fossae et Pontellina plumata. Centropages ponticus a t aussi rencontre en nombre limit dans nos prlvements.
25027451|Le cycle reproducteur de Gammarus setosus peut tre acclr ou ralenti par la photopriode mais apparemment ne peut tre arrt. Il est acclr en t par les jours courts (8L:16D, 12L:12D) mais non pas par les jours longs (14L:10D, 20L:4D) ou l'obscurit totale (0L:24D). En hiver-printemps un deuxime cycle reproducteur se produit avec les photopriodes experimentales (0L:24D, 8L:16D, 12L:12D) mais non pas en lumire du jour. Il est suggr que G. setosus ne rpond pas  une photopriode particulire mais plutt  un changement de l'une  l'autre.
25027439|Gammarus pseudolimnaeus peuple une portion trs limite de la rivire Credit,  sa jonction avec la rivire West Credit. L'tude de son cycle vital indique une dure de vie d'environ 15 mois et une seule priode reproductrice. En laboratoire, les femelles produisent un maximum de 3 portes. Le nombre d'ufs est proportionnel  la taille des femelles et diminue  mesure qu'avance la saison. La rpartition de Gammarus lacustris limnaeus est beaucoup moins restreinte puisque l'espce se trouve dans plusieurs affluents des rivires Credit et Speed. Aux deux endroits tudis, Lutteral Creek et un ruisseau  Alton, le cycle vital est de 2 ans. La saison de reproduction commence en mai, alors que les spcimens  maturit ont 22 mois, et se termine en aot. En laboratoire, les adultes meurent aprs la saison de reproduction et les femelles pondent jusqu' 3 fois et, plus rarement, 4 fois. Le nombre d'ufs est proportionnel  la taille des femelles mais ne tend pas  diminuer  mesure qu'avance la saison. Les mouvements de drive organique ("organic drift"), s'ils existent, ne sont pas considrables. Des croisements en laboratoire, entre G. lacustris limnaeus et G. l. lacustris ont produit quelques spcimens viables mais indiquent un certain manque de fertilit.
25027547|Copepods are numerically the largest group (81%) amid boreal zooplankton of Shediac Bay from May to November. Beyond 7 species previously described by Scott (1907) and found again, we mention for the first time from that bay the 13 following: Acartia longiremis, Alteutha oblonga, Calanus finmarchicus, Dactylopodia tisboides, Harpacticus chelifer, Metridia lucens, Monstrilla anglica, Oithona similis, Onychocamptus horrida, Parategastes sphaericum, Pseudocalanus minutus, Pseudodiaptomus coronatus and Tisbe furcata. Among these, Monstrilla anglica (Monstrilloida) and the Harpacticoida: Onychocamptus horrida and Parategastes sphaericum, represent 3 new species in Canadian Atlantic coastal waters. Acartia tonsa is the most abundant species, with some others such as: Oithona similis, Acartia clausi, and Centropages hamatus, which exceed 100,000 specimens per cubic meter.
25027405|A new species of isopod, Janirella priseri sp. n., is reported from six abyssal stations of the North Atlantic. This species is characterized by the form of the rostrum and the numerous spines located on the dorsal surface. Its presence on both sides of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and South of the line from the Labrador Sea to the Azores establishes it as a characteristic species of the North Atlantic faunal province.
25027736|This paper presents a preliminary outline of phylogenetic relationships within the genus Euchirella, based on variable structures in the external anatomy of the females. Relative apomorphy or plesiomorphy of character states is assessed in relation to the other genera of the subfamily Euchirellinae. The taxonomic procedure followed is accounted for in the context of modern views about recognizing natural patterns.
25027400|Die Entwicklung der Larven von Cardisoma guanhumi Latreille wurde im Laboratorium vom Schlpfen bis zum ersten Krabbenstadium verfolgt. Die Larven wurden mit Artemia Nauplien gefttert und unter konstanten Temperatur-, Salzgehalts- und Lichtbedingungen gehalten. Die komplette Entwicklung zum ersten Krabbenstadium umfat 5 Zoa-Stadien und 1 Megalopa-Stadium. Diese Stadien werden abgebildet und beschrieben. Hinsichtlich der Anzahl der Zoa-Stadien wurden keine Variationen festgestellt. Die Beborstung aller funktionellen Krperanhnge wurde fr jedes der 5 Zoa-Stadien beschrieben und kann als mgliches diagnostisches Merkmal fr die Larven von C. guanhumi verwandt werden. Auf der Basis der begrenzten Anzahl von Beschreibungen von Larven nahe verwandter Arten knnen die Larven von C. guanhumi durch allgemeine morphologische Charakteristika und die Beborstung bestimmter Krperanhnge taxonomisch differenziert werden. Das Fehlen von Beschreibungen der Megalopa-Stadien anderer Arten innerhalb der Familie Gecarcinidae macht direkte Vergleiche gegenwrtig unmglich. Bis zum ersten Krabbenstadium berlebten 25% der angesetzten Larven. Die Entwicklung bis zum Megalopa-Stadium dauerte im Durchschnitt 22,5 Tage bei 25 C, 35 p.p.t.; die Gesamtentwicklung zur ersten Krabbe war in 42,4 Tagen abgeschlossen.
25027383|Kopulationsversuche haben ergeben, dass zwei Arten der Gattung Thor in der Nhe von Miami, Florida, vorkommen. Eine dieser Arten ist T. floridanus Kingsley, die andere wird als Thor sp. bezeichnet. Die Larvenstadien von Thor sp. werden im Detail beschrieben.
25027529|L'influence des facteurs du milieu sur la rpartition et la production d'Eulimnogammarus obtusatus (Dahl, 1938) et d'autres espces de Gammarids d'estuaires. Les peuplements de Gammares d'un petit estuaire du Nord de la France ont t tudis durant plusieurs annes. Sept espces de Gammarids ont t reconnues. Melita palmata (Mont., 1804); Chaetogammarus stoerensis (Reid, 1938); Eulimnogammarus obtusatus (Dahl, 1938); Chaetogammarus marinus (Leach, 1815); Gammarus salinus Spooner, 1947; Gammarus zaddachi Sexton, 1912, et Gammarus duebenii Liljeborg, 1852. La biologie de ces espces dans leur milieu d'estuaire est resume et leur relation avec les autres espces est discute. L'influence de la salinit sur la survie et la reproduction d'Eulimnogammarus obtusatus a t etudie au laboratoire. Dans ces experiences ce sont des femelles ovigres qui ont t utilises. Il apparait: (1) que la survie des femelles ovigres et des ufs est plus importante pour des salinits eleves; (2) que la survie des mles est meilleure pour les faibles salinits; et (3) que la reproduction est plus importante pour les fortes salinits. En conclusion, la distribution de E. obtusatus dpend presque totalement de la salinit.
25027763|The foregut of gammaridean amphipods shows structural variations, particularly in the pyloric filter basket and the lateral ampullae at the esophagus-foregut junction. Amphipod lateral ampullae have three types of setae which show systematic variation. Reduction of the ampullae along the line from Valettiopsis dentata to Anonyx makarovi (Lysianassidae) is shown, possibly correlated with diet. The amphipod pyloric filter basket has three rows of setae, not two as previously reported, the third being a "cap-row" to close off the dorsal food canal. Structure of the pyloric filter basket in amphipods is fairly uniform. Neither Anaspides tasmaniae nor Gnathophausia ingens have lateral ampullae. Anaspides tasmaniae does not have a pyloric filter basket. The pyloric filter basket of Gnathophausia ingens resembles that of atyid and penaeid decapods. Idotea balthica has a basket similar to that of amphipods, but with two rows of setae (counting the cap-row) instead of three, and lateral ampullae of a different construction.
25027361|Whrend des Tages und whrend der Nacht gefangene Calanus helgolandicus wurden in verschiedenen Zeitabstnden nach dem Fang prpariert. An den Weibchen wurden die melotischen Chromosome untersucht. Ein hoher Prozentsatz der whrend der Nacht prparierten Tiere zeigte meiotische Chromosome, whrend solche nur in wenigen der am Tag prparierten Tiere gefunden wurden. In einem Feldversuch wurden Tiere ber eine Zeitspanne von 24 Stunden periodisch prpariert. 75% der Weibchen waren um 05.30 bereit Eier zu legen; smtliche Weibchen hatten um 10.00 gelegt. Fast alle C. helgolandicus befanden sich um 05.30 in den oberen 40 Metern des Wassers kurz darauf wurde das erste messbare Tageslicht beobachtet. Dieser Sachverhalt deutet darauf hin dass das Licht einen bedeutenden Faktor fr die Eiablage darstellt. Laboratoriumsexperimente zeigen, dass Lichteinwirkung die Eiablagehufigkeit etwa verdoppelt. Da aber die Eier in der Natur in vollkommener Dunkelheit gelegt werden, mssen weitere Faktoren beteiligt sein.
25027523|Locomotor activity of two laboratory reared populations of Niphargus rhenorhodanensis was studied at a temperature of 11 C. Activity was high and constant throughout the experiments for those individuals from karstic habitats whereas it was low and decreased for those individuals from phreatic habitats. Oxygen consumption was found to be directly proportional to activity. The differences between the two populations are explained by their different origins.
25027495|Signals given by the would-be loser prior to the termination of a fight between two individuals of crayfish have been reported; these include rapid antennal wave, feeding and grooming movements. It has been suggested that these signals constitute appeasement displays and serve to prevent long and potentially injurious fights.
25027368|Description d'un Coppode, nouveau genre et nouvelle espce, Styelicola bahusia, commensal du tunicier Styela, du Skagerrak. Ce genre devient le second reprsentant connu de la famille des Ascidicolidae; ceci jette la lumire sur l'homologie des oostgites de cette famille, lesquels sont clairement drivs de pattes normales.
25027423|Cymodoce hanseni nov. sp. was found at depths of 10 to 25 m on eelgrass bottoms in the Gulf of Marseilles (Mediterranean Sea). The new species resembles C. spinosa (Risso), C. emarginata sensu Torelli and C. truncata (Montagu); the latter has also been collected on the same type of bottom.
25027543|A morphological study of Norwegian specimens of the species Scottula inaequicornis Sars, 1902, was made in order to compare it with the closely related species Metacalanus aurivilli Cleve, 1901. The results revealed that the first mentioned should be removed to the genus Metacalanus as a second known species, and a new genus, Sarsarietellus, is proposed to contain Scottula abyssalis Sars, 1905, which is not congeneric with S. inaequicornis. An attempt was made to settle the relationships among the known arietellid genera and they were tentatively classified into two groups, according to the structure of the male and female fifth legs.
25027455|Gammarus tigrinus a t introduit rcemment aux Pays-Bas. En moins de 10 ans, l'espce a occup presque toutes les eaux oligohalines des Pays-Bas. Avant l'introduction de G. tigrinus ces eaux taient occupes par G. d. duebenii, G. zaddachi ou G. p. pulex. G. tigrinus a rapidement remplac ces espces indignes dans la plupart des eaux o elles taient communes auparavant. La question pose est de savoir comment cette espce nouvellement introduite peut tre comptitive avec un tel succs, aux dpens des espces indignes. Les rponses  cette question ont t recherches dans des diffrences relatives aux tolrances de salinit, aux prfrences de salinit, au cycle de reproduction,  la priode d'incubation des oeufs, et au temps ncessaire pour atteindre la maturit sexuelle. Il a t montr que des diffrences dans les cycles de reproduction (priode d'incubation des oeufs plus courte et temps plus court pour atteindre la maturit sexuelle) confrent  G. tigrinus une capacit de reproduction beaucoup plus grande que celle de chacune des trois autres espces, dans des eaux oligohalines. Par suite de cette capacit de reproduction plus importante, G. tigrinus surpassera en nombre les trois espces indignes et les remplacera donc rapidement. L'extension possible de l'aire de rpartition de G. tigrinus est examine.
25027389|Eine grosse Phyllosoma-Larve eines loricaten Crustaceen, 69 mm lang, wurde gefangen in Tiefer Streuung Schicht, in den Gewssern nrdlich von Bermuda. Diese Larve ist offensichtlich identisch mit einer Larve von 70 mm Lnge, die in der Nhe der Marshall Inseln gefangen worden ist. Mikroskopische Untersuchung des Darminhalts zeigte dass dieses Tier sich von Cnidariern ernhrt
25027559|1. Die meisten Arten calanoider Copepoden, die in den oberen 250 m des quatorialen mittleren Atlantiks gefunden wurden, sind auch von der Ost- und Westseite des Atlantischen Ozeans bekannt. 2. Nur wenige Arten treten in der gesamten Wassersule auf. Nach ihrem Vorkommen in den verschiedenen Tiefenstufen ist eine kleine Gruppe von Arten an die Oberflchenschicht gebunden und eine grszere Gruppe an das Wasser unter der Sprungschicht. 3. Die Anzahl der Arten pro Tiefenstufe ist unter 50 m doppelt so hoch wie ber 50 m; diese Tiefe fllt mit der Obergrenze der Sprungschicht zusammen. 4. In dieser Tiefe findet auch der grszte Wechsel in der Artenzusammensetzung statt. 5. Die Zahl der Copepoden pro Kubikmeter filtriertes Wasservolumen und Tiefenstufe verringert sich unter 100 m betrchtlich; diese Tiefe fllt mit der Untergrenze der Sprungschicht zusammen.
25027370|Description of Archinotodelphys profundus n. sp., a copepod belonging to the Archinotodelphyidae, and found in the western North Atlantic in a deep-sea ascidian, Cnemidocarpa digonas C. & F. Monniot. This new species bridges to a certain extent the gap between the genera Archinotodelphys and Pararchinotodelphys.
25027432|Rdescription du mle de Microprotopus raneyi Wigley, 1966, et discussion de certains changements morphologiques qui surviennent au cours de son dveloppement. Description de Microprotopus shoemakeri n. sp. La distribution des deux espces le long de la cte est des Etats-Unis est discute.
25027471|Dans cette tude on a revu de faon critique le concept actuel de la classification des amphipodes de la famille des Gammaridae. On propose une nouvelle structure des taxa selon un arrangement phylognique. Cent quatre-vingt-dix-sept genres et 1200 (ou plus) espces forment six nouvelles super-familles ou groupes phyltiques parmi lesquels 6 ont t rutiliss. On a aussi rutilis une autre famille ainsi que 5 genres qui ont t reports  un groupe de non-gammarides moins apparent. Il est possible que la filiation que l'on propose ncessite une rvaluation  la lumire de nouveaux spcimens, mais elle reprsente nanmoins des vues quasi-unanimes. On prsente une description officielle des nouveaux taxa suivants: Super-famille Gammaroidea: Famille Pontogammaridae, Anisogammaridae, Mesogammaridae; Super-famille Melitoidea: Famille Carangoliopsidae; Super-famille Crangonyctoidea: Familles Paramelitidae, Neoniphargidae; Super-famille Bogidielloidea; Super-famille Niphargoidea; Super-famille Melphidippoidea. Groupes de non-gammarides: Familles Gammarellidae, Salentinellidae. On recommande aussi d'autres familles ainsi que d'autres arrangements gnriques, mais d'autres tudes seront ncessaires avant d'obtenir des conclusions plus dfinitives.
25027376|Description d'une nouvelle espce du genre Pseudonychocamptus; P. carthyi, provenant de Hunstanton, Norfolk (Grande-Bretagne), recueillie dans des touffes de l'hydraire Laomedea gelatinosa (Pallas). L'auteur donne ensuite une liste des petits invertbrs dans le mme chantillon de Laomedea. La femelle unique de P. carthyi est choisie comme holotype; le mle est inconnu.
25027560|Within the family Taeniacanthidae eight genera parasitize fishes, both elasmobranchs and teleosts, and three genera live with echinoid echinoderms. The differentiation of the latter three genera, Echinosocius, Echinirus, and Clavisodalis, from each other and from other genera in the family is discussed. Conservative appendages showing only small variation in the three genera include the second antenna, the mandible, first maxilla, and second maxilla. Other body parts are much more variable, for example, the first antenna, the maxilliped (especially in the female) and leg 1. Evolutionary trends among the three genera include the reduction in the secondary tine of the mandible, the reduction and eventual loss of the maxilliped in the female, and the simplification of leg 1. The fourteen taeniacanthid species, including seven already known and seven that we are currently describing, inhabit only four genera of sea urchins, Diadema (in the Diadematidae), Salmacis (in the Temnopleuridae) and Echinometra and Heterocentrotus (in the Echinometridae). Diadema is the most favored host, with nine taeniacanthid species. Other host genera have three or fewer species. Although originally believed to live on the spines and outer surface of the urchins, more recent observations show large numbers in the esophagus. Although it seems likely that more than one taeniacanthid species may inhabit a single urchin, such cohabitation is not known with certainty. Host specificity tends to be narrow, with one species of taeniacantid living with one species of host.
25027390|Description et figuration d'une larve phyllosome de Scyllaride de 65 mm de longueur, provenant de la mer des Carabes, et de trois phyllosomes plus petites, de l'Atlantique occidental, qui semblent reprsenter des stades plus prcoces de la mme espce. C'est la premire phyllosome gante de cette taille et de cette forme, qui soit signale de l'Atlantique. Comme les caractres larvaires de plusieurs genres de Scyllarides ne sont pas clairement dfinis, il est impossible actuellement de dterminer l'identit de ces phyllosomes. Si l'on tient compte de la distribution connue des Scyllarides adultes, en mme temps que de ce que l'on sait sur leurs larves, il est probable que ces phyllosomes sont ou bien celles de Arctides guineensis (Spengler), ou bien celles de Parribacus antarcticus (Lund) et semblent appartenir  l'espce identifie comme Parribacus par Gurney (1936) et Saisho (1966b). Quoique Sims (1965) ait attribu  Parribacus une srie de stades diffrents de ceux dcrits ici, on notera que son matriel inclut apparemment deux espces distinctes au moins de phyllosomes de Scyllarides, et qu'on ne peut prouver que l'une est bien identifiable  Parribacus; par consquent, on ne peut liminer l'hypothse que les prsentes larves appartiennent  ce genre. Il n'est pas exclu que les premiers stades larvaires d'Arctides, de Parribacus et de Scyllarides soient similaires et des tudes dtailles de matriel lev en laboratoire seront sans doute ncessaire pour les sparer. L'auteur passe en revue les phyllosomes gantes de l'Indopacifique et constate que leur distribution correspond  celles des adultes d'Arctides et de Parribacus. L'identit avec Parribacus semble probable, et une diagnose provisoire pour les phyllosomes de P. antarcticus est donne.
25027493|Surveys of the locations of marked crayfish and field experiments were carried out to determine factors affecting the daily movement of a stream population of Orconectes virilis. Addition of artificial burrows did not affect the number of crayfish inhabiting a portion of the stream. Natural burrows from which the residents were removed were not fully re-occupied during that summer. Animals displaced to one portion of the stream showed no evidence of orientation to 'home' areas. Experimentally changing the stream water level resulted in increased numbers of crayfish in the stream at night when the level was lowered and decreases when it was raised. Analysis of capture-location data indicated that individual crayfish do not come out in the stream every night. When female crayfish have attached young, they move very little, move downstream just after the release of young and move upstream in the fall (as do males).
25027377|Les descriptions existantes de la larve de Sphyrion lumpi ne rendent pas clairement compte du nombre ni de la structure des appendices. Des larves  divers stades de dveloppement ont t obtenues des ovisacs de 37 femelles de Sphyrion. Une description est donne des jeunes nauplii et mtanauplii et la structure thorique du premier coppodite est compare  celle d'autres coppodes "Pectinata". Les appendices du mtanauplius semblent tre les premires et secondes antennes, les mandibules, les secondes maxilles, les maxillipdes et trois paires de pattes natatoires. Les premires maxilles n'ont pas t trouves. Le bord postrieur du cne de la bouche possde une paire de crochets bifides dont l'homologie n'est pas certaine.
25027464|This paper deals with the systematics and biogeography of four troglobitic amphipods found in eleven new stations in the north-east and the center of Spain. These species are: Niphargus longicaudatus (Costa, 1857), Pseudoniphargus africanus Chevreux, 1901, Crangonyx cf. subterraneus Bate, 1859, and Haplogynglimus cf. bragai Mateus & Mateus, 1958.
25027542|Specific responses of growth in some species of copepods to variations of temperature and quantity of food were studied. Correlations between body-length and temperature of development are made evident for three copepods of Dunkirk harbour (France): Temora longicornis, Centropages hamatus, and Acartia clausi. For A. clausi, the length of the cephalothorax stays minimal and constant from August to March, when the temperature decreases. The very low concentration of phytoplankton in winter is a limiting factor for enlargement of size in this species. For T. longicornis the length varies inversely with temperature, even in times of scanty phytoplankton development. The increase in size at this time could be due to an adaptation of the diet to other food expedients. The opportunism of Temora longicornis is also shown by the extensive dispersion of sizes in each sample, in contrast with the very grouped data for Acartia clausi.
25027453|Die Bedeutung endogener Kontrolle der Schwimmaktivitt von Gammarus zaddachi in stuaren wurde untersucht. Unter natrlichen Hell-Dunkel-Bedingungen, konstanter Temperatur, Salinitt und Strmungsgeschwindigkeit gibt es eine ausgeprgte Rhythmik der Schwimmaktivitt, deren Maxima mit der nchtlichen Hochwasserzeit korreliert sind. Negative Rheotaxis findet sich nur whrend einiger Stunden vor und nach dem Hochwasser im Dunkeln. Die Ergebnisse werden im Zusammenhang mit dem jhrlichen Migrationszyklus diskutiert, der von frheren Freilandbeobachtungen her bekannt ist.
25027557|The seasonal distribution of copepodid stage V (CV) and females of Calanus finmarchicus and C. helgolandicus was studied over almost three years in a fjord on the Swedish west coast. Although there were variations from year to year it may be generalized that both species exhibit different life cycles in the area studied. Whereas the overwintering population consisted more or less of the same proportion of CV of both species, Calanus helgolandicus was apparently unable to reproduce successfully in spring. Thus, in early summer C. finmarchicus was dominating, but the stock decreased steadily during the summer. In August usually enormous numbers, mainly CV of both species, were flushed into the fjord. Adults, if present, were C. helgolandicus. The origin of this mass occurrence is discussed. It is suggested that both species are expatriate in the fjord and probably also in the central North Sea.
25027373|Eine detaillierte Studie ber Caetrodes pholas C. B. Wilson (neuerdings gesammelten Individuen aus Kerala und zwei Paratypen vom U.S. National Museum) hat ergeben, da Wilsons Originalbeschreibung unzureichend ist. Auf Grund der vorliegenden Untersuchung wird Caetrodes Wilson zum Synonym von Hatschekia Poche erklrt. Eine neue Art von Hatschekia, H. elliptica, wird beschrieben.
25027460|The dry weight of two populations of Niphargus longicaudatus rhenorhodanensis (one from a surface hyporheic biotope and the other from a subterranean biotope) decreases with the duration of breeding in the laboratory. Biometrical differences exist between these two populations. Some hypotheses are given to understand these phenomena.
25027761|The new sub-family Aorinae is proposed for a group of genera in the family Aoridae, central to which is the triad Aora Kryer, Lembos Bate, and Bemlos Shoemaker. A distinguishing feature of the new sub-family is the ornamentation, with channels and plates, of the surface of the mandibular molar. The structure of these ornamentations has been investigated using the S.E.M. Secondary sexual characters exhibited by the male gnathopod 1 have been widely used in the past as a basis for the classification of the Aoridae. In the present work, the structure of the male gnathopod 1 is considered to be a poor indicator of phylogenetic relationship and is therefore given low weighting. A synapomorphy scheme based in the main upon mouthpart (principally the mandible), and uropod 3 structure, is proposed for the Aorinae. Character state trends are reviewed and their polarization determined by outgroup method. Parallel evolution is considered to be common in Aorinae, and examples of such parallelism are reviewed. The biogeography of the three major ingroup clades revealed by the cladogram is discussed.
25027765|Behavior of Corophium, Podocerus, Grandidierella and Gibberosus (Megaluropidae) was studied by filming in regular motion, time-lapse and slow-motion photography. Corophium builds tubes from amphipod silk with or without the presence of foreign particles but Grandidierella is unable to build tubes without the presence of silt or detritus to incorporate into the tube. In Corophium much thievery of tubes occurs which causes them to be damaged and to agglutinate but to be recaptured and construction continued. Podocerus cannot build tubes but often captures empty tubes of other taxa (including other phyla). Podocerus seeks the highest part of the environment when possible and rears backward, spreading its net-like antennae into the water column. On artificial experimental pedestals a pecking order occurs where dominant individuals seek the highest elevation. Gibberosus (like Megaluropus) is morpho-functionally a reverted organism which burrows into well sorted sand in an upside-down flexed manner, leaving a hole at the sand surface between its uropodal fan and maxillipeds. One assumes feeding occurs by capture of saltating particles falling into the hole created by the individual.
25027412|Die Histologie und Feinstruktur des Mitteldarms junger Adulti von Porcellio wird beschrieben. Die Absorption und Lagerung von Fett im Mitteldarm-Epithelium wird errtert in Beziehung zur Nahrungsaufnahme und zum Hungern. Die Mitteldarmwand besteht aus einer chitinigen peritrophen Membran, einem gefalteten Epithelium, einer Basalmembran sowie einer quergestreiften und longitudinalen Muskulatur. Die Plasmamembran der epithelialen Zellen weist stark ausgeprgte irregulre Falten auf; viele Mitochondrien liegen in den dadurch gebildeten engen zytoplasmatischen Schichten. Das Zytoplasma enthlt in reichem Mae Cisternae beider Typen des endoplasmatischen Reticulums und der Lysosomen. Histochemische Studien haben ergeben, da das Produkt der Fettverdauung vom Darmlumen hauptschlich durch die groen Sulenzellen des Epitheliums absorbiert wird. Nachdem ein Isopode seine Mahlzeit aufgenommen hat, beginnen sich die Fettpfrpfchen innerhalb des Mitteldarmzytoplasmas und der Basalmembran anzusammeln. Nach lngerem Hungern verschwinden diese Fettdepots.
25027578|To study the distribution of Paraleptastacus species along a gradient of changing physical factors, an extensive sampling program was carried out on five sandy beaches of the North Sea Island Sylt. The exposure of these beaches decreases from north to south; this results in a decreasing median grain size and an increasing amount of detritus along the gradient. As the exposure decreases, the extent of the beach slope decreases and the sand flats are gradually replaced by mud flats. Although the number of Paraleptastacus species is lower in the more sheltered beaches, their dominance increases with decreasing exposure from 40% to 90% of the total copepods. Species occurring in the more exposed beaches are Paraleptastacus holsaticus and P. supralitoralis. Paraleptastacus spinicauda was found only in one beach of intermediate exposure. A fourth, up to now undescribed, Paraleptastacus species dominated the more sheltered beaches.
25027393|In der Larvenentwicklung von Raninoides benedicti Rathbun gibt es vier Zoastadien und ein Megalopastadium; die einzelnen Larvenstadien werden beschrieben und genau abgebildet. Planktonische Zoae dieser Art wurden im Laboratorium bis zum siebenten und achten Krabbenstadium gezchtet und die Bestimmung der Art wurde auf die Morphologie dieser jungen Krabben gegrndet. Die von Rathbun (1937) zur Trennung von Raninoides benedicti und R. laevis (Latreille) gewhlten Merkmale haben sich als unzuverlssig erwiesen bei Tieren mit einem Carapax krzer als 20 mm. Sechs von neun Exemplaren der pazifischen Ksten Panamas und Columbias, die zur Gattung Raninoides gehren und von Rathbun (1937) zu R. laevis gerechnet wurden, wurden geprft. Weil deren Carapax-Lnge weniger als 16,0 mm betrug, whrend das grsste Mnnchen nach der Beschaffenheit des ersten Pleopod als R. benedicti bestimmt werden konnte, wird darauf hingewiesen, dass wahrscheinlich alle pazifischen Exemplare von R. laevis zu R. benedicti gehren und dass R. laevis eine atlantische Art ist, die nicht im stlich pazifischen Gebiet vorkommt.
25027430|Bei vier Orchestia-Arten erhlt man eine lineare Beziehung, wenn Gliedmassenlnge und Alter (juvenile und teilweise auch unreife Individuen) arithmetisch aufgetragen werden. Bei juvenilen und teilweise unreifen Individuen betrug die tgliche Wachstumszunahme der Basis des dritten Pleopoden 0,0075 mm bei O. cavimana, 0,0065 mm bei O. mediterranea, 0,0060 mm bei O. gammarellus und 0,0015 mm bei O. remyi roffensis. Wachstumsstadien wurden erkannt an der Anzahl der Flagellumsegmente der zweiten Antenne und an der Anzahl Dornen auf den Rami der Pleopoden. Die Zwischenhutungsdauer und die Regression "Basislnge der dritten Pleopoden gegen Alter" wurden benutzt, um den Lngenzuwachs bei der Hutung zu ermitteln; die Regressionsgraden zeigen bei allen vier Arten den gleichen Neigungswinkel. Interspezifische Unterschiede in der tglichen Wachstumsrate sind daher auf endogene Unterschiede in der Hutungsfrequenz zurckzufhren.
25027759|It is concluded that amphipods are clinging aquatic animals whose primary locomotion is by swimming. Walking using their peraeopods is generally ineffective. They move and escape forward by pushing with their urosome and many of their features such as sessile eyes, lack of an antennal scale, reduced inflexible urosome with poorly developed ventral muscles and three pairs of uropods are related to this behaviour. Because of their life style they are able to live in diverse aquatic habitats with little morphological change.
25027418|Pendant l'expdition de l'Institut de biologie marine aux Kouriles en 1969, dans les eaux littorales de l'le Urup, on a recueilli 8 espces de la famille des Janiridae et 1 espce de la famille des Jaeropsidae. Trois espces nouvelles pour la science sont dcrites: Janiralata bisinuata, J. microphthalma et J. obliterata. Pour les autres les localits nouvelles sont mentionnes.
25027443|La distribution du Mysidac fouisseur Gastrosaccus sanctus (van Beneden, 1861) a fait l'objet de recherches le long des ctes sableuses mditerranennes d'Isral. Un relev dtaill effectu sur la plage de Bat-Yam (fig. 1) a montr une distribution ingale de la population de G. sanctus le long de la cte. Dans les endroits peupls les animaux forment des rassemblements, suivant des zonations horizontales, parallles  la ligne d'eau.
25027414|The hydrological and physico-chemical conditions in a locality near Zagreb, Jugoslavia, of Stenasellus hungaricus thermalis Metrov, 1960, are enumerated. The behaviour of the animal under laboratory conditions (burrows, food, movements, rheotaxis) confirm the idea that this isopod, which was originally described from a spring, leads in reality an interstitial life.
25027479|Fabia hickmani Guiler is redescribed and assigned to the genus Pinnotheres. P. hickmani, P. novaezelandiae, and P. pisum are compared and the significant differences are figured. The first zoeae of P. hickmani and P. novaezelandiae are also figured. It is concluded that the three crabs are distinct allopatric species.
25027494|Exemplare von Cambarus robustus im vierten Jugendstadium und Erwachsene Orconectes propinquus wurden in Versuchsbehlter gesetzt, deren Wasser Chlorella spp. enthielt. Zhlung der Algen nach 0, 2, 4 und 6 Stunden ergab, dass ein Filtermechanismus bei diesen Krebsen vorhanden ist.
25027552|Le basipodite et le premier segment de l'endopodite de l'antenne (A2) de quelques genres de Cyclopidae ont t examins. Cette tude nous a montr la prsence de denticules, pines et poils implants d'aprs diffrents modles caractristiques. L'tude compare de ces modles a permis de sparer les sous-familles et les genres tudis.
25027480|Die Verhaltensformen und -normen von Ocypode quadrata Populationen sowie deren Ursachen werden fr das Gebiet zwischen Kap Henry (Virginia) und Kap Hatteras (North Carolina) im Zeitraum September 1974 bis September 1975 untersucht. Statistisch wurde gefunden, dass ausgewachsene Krabben ein rumlich breiteres Gebiet besiedeln und kologisch engere Strukturen (patterns) besitzen als heranwachsende. Diese Tatsache scheint nicht nur die physiologischen Unterschiede zwischen ausgewachsenen und heranwachsenden Krabben zu beleuchten, sondern weist auf stark heterogene Raumverteilungen bei jungen Krabben hin, fr die geeignetere Lebensrume bercksichtigt werden. Sowohl naturbedingte als auch zivilisatorische Kstenstrungen tendieren dazu, die Relation zwischen ausgewachsenen und heranwachsenden Krabben zu verschieben und die Abundanz erwachsener Krabben zu reduzieren. Da die Krabben nicht auf reproduktive Zeitphasen beschrnkt sind, sind zivilisatorisch bedingte Strungen weitaus zersetzender als natrliche, und zwar fr Siedlungsgruppen der Ocypode quadrata speziell und fr das kologische Kstensystem ganz generell.
25027399|Le dveloppement larvaire d'Aratus pisonii a t suivi en laboratoire  partir de l'closion au stade mgalope. Il y a quatre stades zos et un stade mgalope dans le dveloppement larvaire, qui dure un mois environ. L'auteur donne une description et une illustration de chaque stade larvaire et discute les caractres qui peuvent tre utiliss pour faire distinction des larves d'Aratus et celles d'autres Sesarminae.
25027419|Dix espces de Munnids (Isopoda, Asellota) ont t trouves dans les eaux littorales des Kouriles, pendant l'automne 1969. Les localits de rcolte sont mentionnes et quatre espces, nouvelles pur la science, sont dcrites: Munna crinita n. sp., M. urupica n. sp., M. coxalis n. sp. et Pleurogonium angustum n. sp.
25027388|Die Phyllosoma-Stadien zweier Arten von Langusten, gefunden in dem Plankton der Inselkette von Hawaii, werden beschrieben und abgebildet. Diese Larven sind auf die einzigen zwei Arten von Panulirus zurckzufhren, von denen bekannt ist, dass sie im Gebiet von Hawaii vorkommen. Verbreitungsmssig berdecken sich die Larven in einem Teil des Bereiches. Die Larve, die auf P. marginatus zurckzufhren und im Hawaiischen Gebiet einheimlich ist, war die Einzige, die nrdlich von French Frigate Untiefe und Midway Insel gefunden wurde. Die Larve die auf P. penicillatus zurckzufhren ist, wurde hingegen als Einzige von den Beiden in der quator Region gefunden. Es ist bekannt, dass Erwachsene dieser Art dort auch vorkommen.
25027459|ber einen Zeitraum von 18 Monaten wurde die Drift und die Aufwanderung von Gammarus fossarum Koch in isolierten Abschnitten zweier Schlitzerlnder Bche gemessen. Die Driftmengen waren im Sommer hoch, im Winter niedriger. In der Sommermitte glichen Aufwanderungen die Drift aus; in den Wintermonaten gab es fast keine Aufwanderungsaktivitt. Die Fluktuationen in der Drift und den Aufwanderungen verliefen in beiden Bchen sehr hnlich. Whrend der Beobachtungszeit wurde etwa die Hlfte der Drift durch Aufwanderungsaktivitt kompensiert; ein hnliches Ergebnis einer frheren Studie in einem der Bche wurde damit besttigt.
25027424|Pleurocope dasyura Walker, 1901, hier neu und ergnzend beschrieben, wird Typus einer neuen Familie Pleurocopidae.
25027407|Es wird eine neue Art der Gattung Austrosignum beschrieben: A. maltinii. Diese Gattung war bisher (mit Ausnahme von Kalifornien) nur in antarktischen Gewssern gefunden worden.
25027397|Gruppen von 10-20 ausgewachsenen mnnlichen und weiblichen Uca pugilator (Bosc) zeigten Balzverhalten und paarten sich; sie waren untergebracht in 75 Liter fassenden Aquarien mit Sand-boden und einer Wasserhhe von 30 cm; Seewasser von 24-30 Grad C wurde laufend zugefhrt. Eitragende Weibchen wurden nach dem Paarungsvorgang den Laborkulturen entnommen oder aus Freiland beschafft, und zwar aus Gebieten, wo winkende Krabben beobachtet wurden. Ihre Eier schlpften in Aquarien mit einem Wasservolumen von 75 Litern, wobei filtriertes Seewasser langsam zuflo. Tglich wurden frischgeschlpfte Artemia-Nauplien hinzugesetzt. In Abstnden von einigen Tagen wurden die berlaufrohre gereinigt und der Beckenboden abgesaugt, um die Exuvien zu entfernen. Die larvale Entwicklung dauerte 30 bis 50 Tage, wobei bis zu 75 Jungkrabben von jedem Brutsatz gewonnen wurden. Vorlufige Verhaltensstudien ergaben, das die Zoa-Larven imstande waren, Artemia zu fangen, die beinahe ebensogro waren wie sie selbst, indem die Krabben den Abdomen krmmten und ihre Beute zwischen Telson und dem vorderen Bauchstachel festdrckten. Die Zahl der abdominalen Krmmungen wurde merklich erhht bei unmittelbaren Berhrungen mit anderen Larven oder Artemia. Es wurde festgestellt, da die Zoen positiv phototaktisch reagieren gegenber Lichtintensitten von
25027556|Die Nahrungsaufnahme von Eurytemora hirundoides Individuen welche mit Algen ernhrt wurden, erwies sich als effizienter wenn auch Bakterien anwesend waren (1-3 G trocken Gewicht/Copepode/Tag) als in parallellen Versuchen ohne Bakterien (bis zum 7 G/Copepode/Tag). Es wird vorausgesetzt dass eine Anfressung des Zellulose- -Wandes der Algen durch die Bakterien eine Rolle dabei spielen knnte.
25027364|A new species, Parastenocaris bohemica, is described from interstitial waters in Bohemia. The species belongs to the fontinalis-group and might be a subspecies of P. fontinalis Schnitter & Chappuis.
25027501|L'appendice masculin de Macrobrachium rosenbergii se dveloppe  partir d'un petit bouton  la base de l'appendice interne d'animaux d'une longueur d'environ 30 mm. Avant que les animaux n'aient atteint une longueur de 70 mm, l'appendice masculin est devenu deux fois plus long que l'appendice interne. Le taux de croissance de l'appendice masculin diminue alors, mais continue  maintenir pendant tout le reste de sa vie ce mme rapport avec la longueur de l'appendice interne. L'appendice masculin est la structure la plus saillante et la plus exacte pour l'identification sexuelle du jeune animal. De petites cincinnuli en forme de bouton s'lvent de dpressions dans le tgument de la surface mdiane distale de l'appendice interne. Les cincinnules sont composes de deux rgions distinctes,  savoir une tige ayant son origine dans le bout distal de l'appendice interne et le capuchon qui se projette avec un angle  partir du bout distal de la tige. A l'intrieur, le capuchon est une structure cuticulaire solide, bien qu'un canal central traverse la base de la tige. Le nombre de cincinnuli varie de deux dans la post-larve ge d'un mois, jusqu' 144 dans les jeunes animaux gs de six mois.
25027372|Description d'une nouvelle espce de Coppode Lernaeide, Cardiodectes krishnai. Son stade larvaire est aussi tudi. On note que la vritable seconde maxille a chapp  tous les auteurs ayant travaill sur le genre.
25027519|Von gerade entlassenen Jungtieren von Gammarus lawrencianus, die ohne Nahrung gehalten oder mit Tetramin, Fleisch von Mytilus edulis bzw. den Algen Dictyosiphon foeniculaceus, Pilayella littoralis und Enteromorpha intestinalis gefttert worden waren, wurden die berlebens- und Wachstumsrate bestimmt. Die berlebensrate war am hchsten bei Ernhrung mit zarten Algen wie Dictyosiphon oder Pilayella, erreichte Mittelwerte bei Ernhrung mit Mytilus, Enteromorpha und Tetramin und war am niedrigsten bei fehlender Ernhrung. Das Wachstum dagegen war bei Ernhrung mit Mytilus und Tetramin schneller als mit irgendeiner der Algenarten. Die erreichte Gre bei Eintritt der Geschlechtsreife war am geringsten bei Ernhrung mit Tetramin und Mytilus und vergleichbar derjenigen, die im Freiland gemessen worden war. Bei Ernhrung mit filamentsen Algen nahm diese Gre dagegen zu. Diese Ergebnisse erlauben die Annahme, da zwar zarte Algen wie Pilayella oder Dictyosiphon die berlebenschancen gerade entlassener Gammarus lawrencianus verbessern, da aber normales Wachstum und normale Entwicklung zustzliche Nahrungskomponenten, wahrscheinlich Proteine, erfordern, deren Vorkommen in den Algen begrenzt ist, die aber in Mytilus und Tetramin vorhanden sind.
25027518|Intersexualitt bei Gammarus minus wurde untersucht. Ungefhr 60% aller Weibchen von einer Lnge zwischen 4 und 7 mm hatten eine oder zwei Genitalpapillen. Diese Papillen waren etwa 50% kleiner als diejenigen von Mnnchen. Anzeichen von Hermaphroditismus oder Mikrosporidieninfektion konnten nicht festgestellt werden. Die Ursache fr das Auftreten der Genitalpapillen bei den Weibchen ist unbekannt. Umwelteinflsse knnten eine Rolle spielen.
25027565|Studies of 54 Montreal area lakes and ponds were conducted between 1978 and 1981 to determine the extent to which physical factors, chemistry, and biotic factors affect distribution and size of six calanoid copepods: Diaptomus minutus, D. oregonensis, D. spatulocrenatus, D. birgei, D. leptopus, and Epischura lacustris. Physical and chemical parameters, copepod presence, abundance, and body size were determined on several sampling dates, primarily in 1979. Four of these species close to the same body length are rarely found in the same lake; they appear to separate according to pH, depth, and conductivity. All four of these species are found with predatory E. lacustris and the small filter-feeding D. minutus. Where D. minutus and D. oregonensis co-occur, there is evidence for character displacement. These facts suggest that patterns of distribution and body size have been in part molded by interspecific competition. Some size patterns, notably a positive correlation between body length and turbidity, can be related to either food supply or to predator avoidance. Control of distribution and body size cannot be ascribed to any single factor.
25027511|Der kleine unterirdische Amphipode Crangonyx paxi Schellenberg wurde bis jetzt nur einmal im Sdwesten Polens in einem kleinen Teich eines Bergwerksstollens im Klesnica Tal in den Sudeten gefunden. Bis jetzt war er nur durch eine unvollstndige Beschreibung bekannt und seine systematische Stellung war unklar. Typen-Exemplare wurden untersucht und mit C. subterraneus Bate, der einzigen anderen Art der Gattung im westlichen und zentralen Europa, verglichen. Auf Grund dieser Untersuchung kann gefolgert werden, dass C. paxi eine eindeutige Art und wahrscheinlich ein abweichende Vertreter der Gattung Crangonyx ist.
25027374|Tortanus giesbrechti nov. sp. aus dem Seichtwasser um die Samoa-Inseln wird beschrieben. Das Mnnchen hnelt T. longipes Brodsky mit Ausnahme der Besonderheiten des fnften Fusses und der Furka. Letztere ist asymmetrisch.
25027548|In investigating development in three species of copepods in 1970, Corkett & McLaren suggested that development from hatching to copepodid I is the same multiple of development time of eggs to hatching at any given temperature. In general the time taken for the development to any larval stage is the same multiple of the time to the appearance of an earlier developmental stage at any given temperature. This also appears to be true for morphologically identifiable developmental stages in the development of fish eggs before hatching. This type of development has been called physiologically determined and occurs in copepods when food is sufficiently abundant, any shortage of food delaying development before causing death. In 1980, an investigation was conducted on Eurytemora herdmani to compare development rates obtained in the laboratory with those obtained in a contained body of water of the Northwest Arm, Halifax, Nova Scotia. The development of a cohort of animals in the Northwest Arm was followed over two weeks and was found to take 10 days to develop from copepodid I to adult at an average temperature of 13C. Animals taken from the same cohort were reared in the laboratory in excess food and found to take about 9 days to develop from CI to adult at 13C, suggesting that copepods in the Northwest Arm were developing at maximal physiologically determined rates.
25027386|Es werden zwei Formen von Phyllamphion-Larven beschrieben und abgebildet. Diese seltenen Larven werden vor allem aufgrund struktureller Unterschiede an den zweiten Antennen verschiedenen Gattungen der Familie Palinuridae (Macrura) zugerechnet. Die hawaiische Form (frher auf den Philippinen und den Westindischen Inseln nachgewiesen) scheint der Gattung Justitia anzugehren, die in hawaiischen Gewssern, im Indischen Ozean und auf den Westindischen Inseln vorkommt. Ein charakteristisches anatomisches Merkmal, nmlich das Vorhandenseins eines Rostrums, ist diesen Larven mit Justitia gemeinsam. Die einzige andere Gattung aus der Familie Palinuridae, die ebenfalls auf Hawaii vorkommt, ist Panulirus, die eine typische Phyllosoma-Larve hat. Aus dem vorliegenden Material ergeben sich keine verbindlichen Anhaltspunkte bezglich der Gattungszugehrigkeit der Larven aus der Sdchinesischen See.
25027503|Periclimenes magnificus, sp. nov., une crevette de la sousfamille Pontoniinae des Iles Capricorn, Queensland, Australie, est dcrite et illustre. Les spcimens de cette nouvelle espce ont t trouves  Heron Island, en association avec le corail Catalaphyllia plicata et l'actinie Dofleinia cf. armata, profondeur 25-30 m. P. magnificus est color d'une faon frappante, et s'apparente de prs  P. holthuisi Bruce,  laquelle elle est compare. P. magnificus possde une spinulation extraordinaire sur les coxae des troisimes et quatrimes preiopodes, d'un type pas encore observ dans le genre Periclimenes.
25027546|Das Vorkommen verschiedener Plankton-Organismen in der Ostsee wird korreliert mit mehreren abiotischen Umweltbedingungen, z.B., Salinitt, Temperature, Sauer-stoffkonzentration, Stickstoffgehalt und Phosphatgehalt.
25027461|Des relevs hebdomadaires de l'abondance relative des Amphipodes souterrains Crangonyx subterraneus Bate, Niphargus kochianus kochianus Bate, Niphargus fontanus Bate, Niphargus aquilex Schidte ont t effectus dans une station du Dorset, dans le sud de l'Angleterre, durant cinq annes. La station et la technique d'chantillonnage sont dcrites. Les rsultats exposs ont t obtenus  partir des captures annuelles et sont bass sur les nombres de chaque espce, exprims en moyennes mensuelles. On suppose que les variations numriques des espces tudies sont troitement lies aux variations du niveau de l'eau dans la station.
25027526|Driftraten und Aufwanderungsintensitt von G. fossarum gleichen sich im Schlitzerlnder Breitenbach und Rohrwiesenbach nur im Hinblick auf ihren Verlauf innerhalb des Jahres. Im Breitenbach steht die Intensitt beider Vorgnge in Relation zur Abundanz der Gammariden, nicht aber im Rohrwiesenbach, wo sich die Population im Winter strker ins Bodensubstrat und Fallaub zurckzieht. Whrend die Aufwanderung auf den Hochsommer beschrnkt und endogen verursacht ist, hngt die Drift von der Exposition der Tiere in der Strmung ab. Entsprechend ist die Drift in Bchen einer Region deutlicher korreliert als die Aufwanderung, indem bergeordnete, meteorologisch bedingte Faktoren strker auf die Drift einwirken. Die Aufwanderung zur Zeit der Sommermitte fllt mit dem Erreichen der hchsten Besiedlungsdichte zusammen. Die Drift whrend der winterlichen Reproduktionspause dezimiert die Populationen erheblich, was durch sommerliche Aufwanderungen kompensiert werden mu.
25027751|The genus Ampelisca is represented in the Northeastern Atlantic Ocean by 41 of the 140 species recorded from all over the world. The interest of this genus at the taxonomic, biological, and ecological levels has induced us to prepare a synthesis of the various data available. Taxonomy: The study of recent samples and existing collections has permitted the description of 10 new species during the last ten years. The great diversity of the genus and its relative homogeneity suggest that it constitutes a taxon in full speciation at the moment. The phenetic relations between different species have been analyzed for 50 morphological characters. Biogeography: More than a third of the total number of species is not found outside the zone considered. Only one species is found everywhere in the Northeastern Atlantic. Half of the number of species is found in one of the five biogeographical provinces recognized so far. Bathymetry: Four species are considered as bathyal; 22 are limited to the continental shore. Ecology: Two species are strictly associated with hard substrata, seven are found in muddy bottoms only. The other species are less closely linked with sediment grain-size, their preference is generally for fine, more or less muddy sand. The quantitative data actually available show: great numerical differences between the different species; large populations in French and British waters; co-occurrence of several species in one biotope, suggesting low trophic competition. Biology: Few biological studies on a limited number of species have shown that the biological cycle is related to latitude. The genus Ampelisca, despite difficulties encountered during identification, remains good faunistic material for an integrated study concerning systematics as well as biology, ecology, and biogeography.
25027420|Pendant les recherches hydrobiologiques de 1954, 1955 et 1969 dans les eaux littorales des Kouriles Moyennes, 5 espces de la famille des Arcturidae (Isopoda, Valvifera) ont t trouves, toutes nouvelles pour la science. Trois espces, Arcturus asper, Pleuroprion chlebovitschi et P. toporoki, sont dcrites dans l'article prsent. En outre l'auteur donne une cl d'identification des genres d'Arcturidae des eaux tempres de l'Hmisphre boral et dcrit un nouveau genre: Parapleuroprion.
25027425|A new genus and species of deep sea tanaid is described from off Il Salvador and from the Azores.
25027395|Les larves du crabe Oxyrhynque Epialtus dilatatus A. Milne Edwards ont t leves en laboratoire depuis l'closion jusqu'au premier stade crabe, leur nourriture tant constitue par des nauplii d'Artemia. Deux stades zo, une mgalope et le premier stade crabe sont dcrits et figurs. Les caractres des zos dans la sous-famille des Acanthonychinae sont compars. La mgalope d'Epialtus dilatatus est compare aux autres mgalopes de Majidae obtenues par levage.
25027762|The Siphonoecetinae at present encompass 29 described species in nine genera plus an additional 36-41 undescribed species. Based on a cladistic analysis these 65-70 species are divided informally into siphonoecetids and apomorphous concholestids based primarily on coxal plates 3 and 4. Siphonoecetids are divided into two main groups: Australoecetes s.l. and true siphonoecetids. Within the concholestids, Concholestes is considered the sister group of all other concholestids. Global distribution of these main groups is discussed. The highest diversity above the species level is found around the Indian Ocean, the lowest in the North Atlantic-Mediterranean, the Caribbean, and the northwestern Pacific. The probable Tethyan origin of the Siphonoecetinae is briefly touched upon. The different types of abodes found and the phenomenon of abode complexes (males with attached females) are discussed, as are the principal modes of siphonoecetine movements. Depth distribution (intertidal to uppermost bathyal) and habitat preferences are briefly outlined.
25027767|Longipodacrangonyx maroccanus n. gen., n. sp. from a spring located near Marrakech is described here. The phylogenetic relations between the new genus and the other genera of the Metacrangonyx-group to which it belongs are considered. We suggest a "Regression Model" in two successive phases to account for the marine origin of the Metacrangonyx-group. The place of the Metacrangonyx-group within the Gammaridae sensu lato is discussed and the possible creation of a new family, that of Metacrangonyctidae, is suggested.
25027366|Le Coppode dominant, Gladioferens pectinatus, et une deuxime espce, Temora turbinata, ont disparu aprs la dsoxygnation dans une lagune australienne. Une troisime espce, Sulcanus conflictus, a rapparu aprs plusieurs semaines. Les mcanismes possibles de la survivance de Sulcanus sont discuts.
25027454|La reproduction de Gammarus aequicauda (Martynov) de la mer Noire a lieu pendant toute l'anne. Au cours de la priode normale de reproduction de G. aequicauda on observe deux maxima: au printemps pour les individus des gnrations de l'anne passe, et en automne pour les individus des gnrations estivales de l'anne en cours. La reproduction d'automne est souvent moins intense que celle du printemps. Chaque femelle de G. aequicauda se reproduit 10  15 fois au cours de sa vie et produit plus 500 descendants. Au cours de l'anne, 3 gnrations de G. aequicauda apparaissent dans les populations.
25027530|In our study of energy flow in the French upper Rhne ecosystems, our aim was to estimate the secondary production of gammarids in the main stream. Among the benthic macroinvertebrates, gammarids, namely Gammarus fossarum, are the dominant species both in numbers and in biomass. Population samples were collected every three or four weeks by the method of artificial substrates. Arranging individuals of each sample in size classes showed that reproduction is continuous throughout the year but is more intense from May to November and slackens during the winter months. Consequently, distinct cohorts cannot be distinguished. Hynes & Coleman's method (1968), reviewed by Hamilton (1969), was used to estimate the annual production of biomass by gammarids. The calculated production expressed in g of freshweight/artificial substrate/year was 175.5. The P/B ratio (production/average biomass) was 3.5.
25027488|Paralbunea gen. nov. est tabli pour recevoir: Albunea paradoxa Gordon, 1938, A. dayriti Serne & Umali, 1965, A. mariellae Serne, 1973 et P. manihinei sp. nov. Une cl spare d'Albunea Weber, 1795, le nouveau genre et spare entre elles ses quatre espces indo-pacifiques. La rapprochement des dessins des caractres spcifiques les plus distinctifs de ces espces (yeux et dactyles des priopodes 2, 3, 4) complte cette cl.
25027567|Explication d'une programme d'chantillonnage provenant un maximum d'information  l'expense d'un minimum d'efforts.
25027486|Chirostylus micheleae n. sp. und C. dolichopus Ortmann werden vom Indischen Ozean beschrieben. Die neue Art zeichnet sich durch einen stacheligen Carapax, stachelige Augenstiele und einen grossen mittdorsalen Fortsatz auf dem vierten Abdominalsegment aus. Es ist ein kurzes stachelfrmiges Rostrum bei beiden Arten vorhanden. Das fehlen des Rostrums, ein mutmassliches Gattungsmerkmal, ist variabel.
25027416|Die Morphologie von Paracerceis edithae Boone, 1930 wird vervollstndigt. Neue Charakteristika werden herausgearbeitet, inklusive Grssenunterschiede und Sexualdimorphismus. Kollektionen vor der Sdwestkste Puerto Ricos lassen erkennen, dass diese Art in grosser Individuendichte (bis zu 130 Individuen pro
25027360|The life history and biology of Cancerilla tubulata Dalyell (an ectoparasitic cyclopoid copepod on the ophiuroid Amphipholis squamata (Della Chiaje) have been studied under laboratory conditions. The external morphology of all postembryonic developmental stages is described. Six nauplius stages and five copepodid stages precede the adult stage. Sexual differentiation starts in copepodid 5. Some information on the biology of this parasitic copepod is given.
25027510|The lack of definable discontiguous clusters in gammarid Amphipoda prevents nomenclatural recognition of superfamilies, families, and subfamilies. The names proposed by Bousfield (1977) are reduced to appellations to be used, (and to be very useful) in discussing evolutionary sequencing in the group. Unfortunately, too many of the links between and among the various familial groups remain alive and form transitions that erase almost all discontiguities worthy of nomenclatural recognition. We insist on the complete discontiguity of families when named formally in the Linnaean system of nomenclature. In discussing evolutionary deployment, the familial clusters identified by Bousfield become very useful; we alter many of these concepts, for example: 1. The Niphargus group superfamily is reduced to minor rank and brought near to Eriopisella in the melitid group. 2. The Bogidielloids are placed near the crangonyctoids and the pseudocrangonyctids inserted between them gradationally (but as a sidebranch of crangonyctids cladistically). 3. The hadziids and melitids are amalgamated, reduced to a low level group which is further divisible only at the microlevel suggested by Barnard (1976). 4. The Metohia and Pontogammarus family groups are shown to be expressions of evolution outward from Gammarus and Echinogammarus groups.
25027434|La prsence d'Echinogammarus fluminensis Pinkster & Stock, 1970 en France (Cte d'Azur et Corse) et en Grce a t signale. Jusqu'ici l'espce n'tait connue que du bassin du P.
25027369|Die Antennulen, Antennen und Mundteile von Lernaeolophus sultanus werden beschrieben. Alle Glieder dieser Copepodengattung sind denen von anderen Lernaeoceriden hnlich. Die Antennule von L. sultanus hnelt der von Haemobaphes, ist aber anders gebaut als die von Lernaeocera und Lernaeenicus.
25027572|Die Geschichte der Copepoden-Forschung am Zoologischen Institut und Museum der Chistian-Albrechts-Universitt zu Kiel. Es wird ein berblick ber die Geschichte der Copepoden-Forschung am Zoologischen Institut und Museum der Universitt Kiel vom Ende des 18. Jahrhunderts bis heute gegeben. Die Einrichtung eines "Monoculus Museums" und seine Aufgaben und Ziele werden geschildert. Es handelt sich um ein selbstndiges Museum in den Rumen des Zoologischen Museums Kiel.
25027517|Das Zentralnervensystem von Gammarus setosus erstreckt sich vom vorn gelegenen Gehirn caudad in Form eines groen Subsophagealganglions, auf das eine Kette ventraler Ganglien folgt. Das Subsophagealganglion stellt eine Vereinigung von 4 Ganglien zu einer einheitlichen Masse mit sensorischen Funktionen im Zusammenhang mit den Mundwerkzeugen dar. Die ventrale Ganglienkette setzt sich aus 7 Thorakal- und 4 Abdominalganglien zusammen. Lage und Ausma der Neuropilmassen im bindegewebigen Kern und die darberliegenden Nervenzellschichten werden beschrieben. Eine Reduktion der strukturellen Komplexitt im hinteren Bereich, wo die Abdominalganglien seitlich zusammengedrckt sind, kann mit einer allgemeinen Abnahme der Integrationsfunktion korreliert werden.
25027385|Zwei unter dem Abdomen des Weibchens vorkommende Larvenstadien von S. boreas und eine pelagische Postlarve von S. salebrosa werden beschrieben. Die Entwicklungsstadien dieser Arten und ihr Verhltnis zu den Larven der brigen Arten der Gattung Sclerocrangon werden behandelt. Die erste Larve von S. boreas stimmt mit der Larve, die zweite mit der Postlarve von S. salebrosa berein.
25027481|Loxorhynchus crispatus et L. grandis utilisent les pinces pour prendre ou dchirer des morceaux d'ponges, d'algues, d'ascidies, et d'autres organismes, pour les manipuler dans les pices buccales, et pour les frotter parmi les soies crochues de l'exosquellette jusqu' ce qu'ils soient fixs sur celui-ci. Frquemment les juveniles des deux espces se dcorent de bryozoaires rameux, mais les mles adultes ne se dcorent pas. Frquemment les L. crispatus adultes sont incrusts d'algues et d'invertbrs sessiles, tandis que les L. grandis adultes sont dpourvus d'incrustations  l'exception de quelques Balanides et des hydroides minuscules. Dans leur habitat naturel ces crabes sont difficiles  voir, quoiqu'ils ne ressemblent pas toujours leur fond. Dans l'aquarium, leur rponse  un nouveau milieu est d'ajouter des morceaux du fond  leur camouflage, plutt que d'enlever des vieilles matires. Des diffrences entre le nombre d'espces qui sont employes pour le camouflage, et le nombre d'organismes incrustants sur les deux espces de crabes, peuvent tre en rapport avec l'habitat qui est occup par les crabes.
25027499|For one year about fifty Atyaephyra of either sex were kept in a laboratory where the variations in temperature were very similar to those of their natural environment. Graphs showing frequencies of molts obtained for each sex were compared with each other and also with the graph showing the mean weekly temperatures. We consequently came to the following conclusions: (1) vitellogenesis and egg-carrying increase the duration of the molt cycles; (2) in both sexes, two temperature thresholds at 10 and 17 C show a change in the thermal regulation of the molt cycle. In males, the graph showing the average lengths of intermolt cycles which begin on the same day was drawn. It took into account the average daily temperature. We may therefore say that: (1) above an average temperature of 17 C the intermolt cycle follows a specific thermal plan which is very difficult to define; (2) from 17 to 10 C, the molting cycle duration is in an inverse ratio with respect to the mean temperature undergone during the cycle; (3) in the course of the first third or the last third of the intermolt cycle no change comes about if, for several days, the temperature remains below 10 C; (4) when, on the other hand, the temperature drops below 10 C in the second third of the cycle which is taken up for the most part by stage Do as Drach calls it, the molt cycle duration becomes very long and very variable; it is no longer proportional to the mean of the daily temperatures. The migration of Atyaephyra desmarestii throughout northern and eastern Europe, starting from the Mediterranean countries, can be attributed to its capacity to limit its growth to periods of the year when the temperature is greater than 10 C.
25027755|Microtrich sensilla are a special class of sensory organ found on the external surface of amphipod crustaceans. Their general structure, variations in their micromorphology, and distribution on the body surface are discussed.
25027496|Shelled marine gastropods exhibit a general increase in anti-predator devices toward the tropics with the highest incidence in the Indo-West Pacific. Spiny lobsters, which prey on shelled gastropods using molariform mandibles, are hypothesized to show corresponding biographical patterns in mandible size. Mandible size is measured on museum specimens for eight species of spiny lobsters in the genera Panulirus and Jasus. No systematic interoceanic differences are apparent although molar size decreases with increasing latitude. The biological implications of these trends are discussed.
25027569|This paper reports the results of fifteen years of investigations of copepod density in the coastal area, and those of five years in the channel and open waters in the Central Adriatic. Some changes in the rhythm of seasonal fluctuations were established on the basis of these monthly collected long term data. Three copepod density maxima were found to occur during the year in the 1970-1974 period, instead of the two found during 1960-1969. Since this phenomenon was noted throughout the Central Adriatic area, an attempt was made to account for it by variations in environmental factors such as phosphates, numbers of phytoplankton organisms, total zooplankton, number of fish larvae, etc. It appeared that the larger number of maxima at a coastal station may be partly due to eutrophication. The increased number of maxima in the channel and open areas may be accounted for partly by dynamics of water masses. Observations of the long term fluctuations of copepod density in the period 1960-1974 show three increases in the total copepod number: in 1960, 1963/64, and 1967. The two last mentioned increases were accounted for by the increased quantity of total phytoplankton. The density increase in 1960 was attributed to natural fluctuations inside the copepod community.
25027444|Twenty-two species of Cumacea have been collected during 12 dredgings carried out between 2000 and 3000 m in the western Mediterranean. Three new species are described: Diastylis jonesi, Leptostylis bacescoi, and L. gamoi. A study of the vertical and geographic distribution shows that the species living at a depth of more than 900 m are endemic to the Mediterranean. The occurrence of several species below 2000 m only, seems to indicate the presence of a real abyssal fauna in the Mediterranean Sea.
25027463|A first documentation is given of the distribution of three species of Gammarus occuring in the left bank tributaries of the Rhine River between the rivers Wieslauter (opposite Karlsruhe) and Nahe (in Bingen). G. fossarum inhabits approximately the upper, G. pulex the middle, and G. roeselii the lower part of the tributaries under consideration. The distribution pattern is seriously affected by pollution.
25027458|Unter halb-natrlichen Bedingungen hngt die Dauer der Prkopula bei Gammarus roeselii und G. pulex weitgehend von der Temperatur ab. Die Werte unterliegen jedoch einer starken Streuung, und so eignen sich lediglich die bei den jeweiligen Temperaturen gemessenen Maximalwerte fr inter-spezifische Vergleiche. Die Prkopula dauert bei G. pulex deutlich lnger als bei G. roeselii. Die Dauer der Stadien erwachsener   hngt von der Temperatur ab. Unter vergleichbaren Temperaturbedingungen hneln sich die Stadienlngen bei G. roeselii, G. pulex, G. fossarum und G. duebenii, whrend sie bei G. salinus und G. zaddachi krzer sind. Die Dauer der Stadien erwachsener   von G. pulex stimmte unter den halb-natrlichen Bedingungen mit derjenigen berein, die Roux (1975) bei regelmig fluktuierender Temperatur im Laboratorium fand.
25027483|Jungtiere von Mithrax cinctimanus (Stimpson) bewohnen verschiedene Arten von Seeanemonen in der Karibischen Region. In Jamaica (Discovery Bay) kann man einzelne Tiere auf der Diskuskante der kurzarmigen Stoichactis helianthus sehen. Die Krebse ernhren sich unter anderem auch von dem von der Seeanemone abgesonderten Schleim und dem darauf heftenden Detritus. Stndig auf der Seeanemone lebende Individuen fhren zu einer geringeren Entladung von Nesselzellen als Tiere die keinen Kontakt mit der Seeanemone hatten. Nur ein Drittel der beobachteten Vergesellschaftungen dauerte lnger als sieben Tage.
25027466|In habitats with marine influence along the coasts of Yougoslavia some 5 species of Niphargus were found. The most common species is N. hebereri, an euryecious amphipod, which tolerates salinities up to 15 in its natural biotopes. The fauna of subterranean brackish waters on the Yougoslavian coastline is likely to be of limnic, rather than of marine origin.
25027428|Ce travail comporte la description et la figuration de Dogielinotus cimbaluki, espce nouvelle d'Amphipode de la famille des Dogielinotidae, rcolte dans la zone littorale des les Chantar (mer d'Okhotsk). L'analyse morphologique des espces connues et l'tude de leurs particularits cologiques nous a premis d'inclure la famille des Dogielinotidae dans la superfamille des Talitroidea.
25027555|The Pseudodiaptomidae are planktonic Copepoda which are abundant in estuaries in tropical and temperate parts of the world. They occur in a variety of habitats transitional between true marine and true fresh-water environments, including the lower reaches of rivers, coastal lagoons, and neritic marine waters. They are dominant organisms in South African estuaries. A zoogeographical and taxonomic study of the Pseudodiaptomidae of the world has been made and a taxonomic grouping established, which is found to be closely related to their geographical distribution. Five major and several minor groups are distinguished on morphological grounds, particularly on the basis of the structure of the fifth pair of legs of the males. Suggestions are made regarding the origins and evolution of the Pseudodiaptomidae on the basis of their zoogeography.
25027394|An Hand von im Laboratorium geschlpften Larven werden die Larvalstadien der Spinnenkrabbe Libinia spinosa H. Milne Edwards, 1834 (Familie Majidae) beschrieben. Das Ausgangsmaterial stammt von Mar del Plata, Argentinien. Die Art hat ein przoa Stadium und zwei zoa Stadien; daran schliesst sich die Megalopa an. Die Dauer jedes zoa Stadiums betrgt etwa 8 bis 10 Tage. Die gesamte Metamorphose umfasst 28 bis 30 Tage.
25027536|The author presents his world-wide repertory of freshwater Calanoida. A tentative phylogenetic tree of the Copepoda is presented (fig. 1), taking into account characters of naupliar musculature (either simple or complex). Problems relating to general copepod macro-systematics as well as relating to the difficulties encountered in the limitation of taxa in the (discontinuous) freshwater habitat, are discussed.
25027766|Too many taxa of freshwater gammarids have been erected, based on dubious or at least questionable morphological criteria. This has led to a situation in which it is almost impossible to identify newly collected samples, especially in the genus Echinogammarus, with the aid of existing literature. This statement is substantiated with the aid of various populations of, e.g., Gammarus tigrinus Sexton, 1939, Echinogammarus pungens (H. Milne Edwards, 1840), and other members of the genus Echinogammarus from Italy. It is shown that many authors did not consider the normal seasonal variability pattern throughout the year, which can be quite considerable, even when working with adult, reproducing animals. It is demonstrated that, when indeed we take into account the yearly changes in morphology, the number of taxa has to be reduced drastically. The author proposes to refrain from describing new freshwater taxa, before a study has been made of the yearly variability pattern of the various morphological characters.
25027502|Le dveloppement postembryonique est dcrit chez Desmocaris trispinosa (Aurivillius), une crevette d'eau douce africaine. Le matriel tudi comprend les stades I-II levs dans le laboratoire et aussi les stades I-VI recueillis dans le milieu naturel. Le premier stade comprend les appendices cphaliques, thoraciques et les plopodes tous en forme adulte et tous fonctionnels;  ce stade l'animal mange et nage activement  la manire des adultes. Donc il s'agit d'un dveloppement exceptionellement direct. Le telson larvaire est fortement bilob, entirement diffrent de ceux des Palaemoninae; les uropodes se librent  la premire mue. A la seconde mue les pines 2 et 3 du telson disparassent comme chez les Macrobrachium  petits ufs mais elles ne reapparassent jamais. Ceci explique la prsence de deux paires d'pines seulement sur le telson adulte, et reprsente peut-tre un lien entre les Desmocaridinae et les Palaemoninae.
25027403|Serolis carinata und S. mgrayi sind die einzigen Arten der Familie der Serolidae aus untiefem Wasser der nrdlichen Halbkugel. Sie kommen an der pazifischen bzw. der atlantischen Kste der U.S.A. vor. Die beiden Arten sind eng verwandt, jedoch gengend verschieden um sie als getrennte Arten aufzufassen, die nach Bildung der zentral-amerikanischen Landbrcke entstanden.
25027505|Le dveloppement larvaire de Atya innocous a t suivi en laboratoire. L'auteur donne une description dtaille et une illustration de chaque stade larvaire.
25027435|Deux espces d'Amphipodes du genre Podocerus sont dcrites du sud de l'Ocan Indien. L'une d'entre elles, P. walkeri, est considre comme nouvelle; les spcimens des eaux de Ceylan identifis par Walker (1904)  Platophium laeve sont identifis  cette nouvelle espce, et regards comme distincts de Podocerus laevis Haswell, 1885. Une description complte et des figures dtailles sont donnes de Podocerus brasiliensis (Dana), afin de clarifier certaines confusions actuelles relatives  cette espce.
25027384|1. La temprature et la temprature plus la photopriode peuvent induire la reproduction en hiver chez la crevette Palaemonetes pugio. La combinaison des deux stimulations a donn plus de succs que la temprature seulement. 2. Peut-tre y a-t-il une priode rfractaire, car les crevettes ragissent plus rapidement au conditionnement en fvrier qu'aux mois d'hiver antrieurs. 3. Les larves de P. pugio leves  partir des oeufs d'hiver ont montr plus de variations dans le nombre des stades et dans la vitesse du dveloppement que dans les conditions normales, mais, malgr ce fait, on obtient des postlarves morphologiquement normales.
25027491|Typusexemplare von Upogebia ancylodactyla De Man, 1905 und U. intermedia amboinensis De Man, 1888, wurden untersucht. Es zeigte sich, dass die drei Typusexemplare von U. ancylodactyla, zwei verschiedenen Arten angehren. Da De Man's Beschreibung und Abbildungen von U. ancylodactyla hauptschlich auf dem Weibchen von der Samau Insel basieren, wird wieses Tier zum Lectotypus der Art gewhlt. Das Mnnchen vom gleichen Fundort gehrt zu derselben Art. Das dritte Exemplar (von Bawean) wird als Holotypus von Upogebia baweana nov. spec. neu beschrieben. Upogebia amboinensis De Man, 1888, ist eine gute Art. Eine neue Beschreibung des Lectotypus wird hier gegeben.
25027470|Die Amphipoden-Familie der Crangonyctidae (Ordnung Gammaridea), ein Abkmmling der Crangonyx-Gruppe der Familie Gammaridae, ist in der nrdlichen Hemisphre verbreitet. Sie enthlt 6 Gattungen mit 113 bisher beschriebenen Arten. Die Crangonyctiden sind kaltstenotherme Swasserorganismen, die hufig verborgene, Grundwasser fhrende Biotope besiedeln. Die ausgewachsenen Tiere erreichen Lngen von 1,5 bis 30,0 mm. Viele Arten sind auf unterirdische Gewsser beschrnkt, augenlos und nicht pigmentiert. Morphologisch sind die Crangonyctiden durch einen glatten Krper, eine 2-gliedrige Nebengeiel, verhltnismig einfache, wenig abgewandelte Mundteile, mchtige, subchelate Gnathopoden mit krftigen, distal eingekerbten Palmarstacheln, reduzierte 3. Uropoden und ein kurzes, flaches Telson, das ganzrandig oder eingebuchtet, Letzteres aber niemals bis zur Basis hin, sein kann, charakterisiert. Zur Zeit enthlt die Familie folgende Gattungen: Crangonyx, aus 25 Arten bestehend (von denen allerdings 4 unsicher sind), wird in epigischen und hypogischen Gewssern Nordamerikas, Europas und Asiens gefunden; Palaeogammarus, eine aus 3 Arten bestehende fossile Gattung, die aus Bernsteinlagern des nordeuropischen Ostseebereichs bekannt wurde; Synurella mit 18 zumeist epigischen Arten, die in Teilen Nordamerikas und Eurasiens verbreitet sind; Lyurella, eine monotypische Gattung, die durch eine Art im Gebiet des sdwestlichen Kaspimeeres reprsentiert wird; Stygobromus, aus 63 Arten bestehend, die bis auf eine von Asien gemeldete Art auf Nordamerika konzentriert ist, und schlielich Bactrurus, eine aus 3 nur aus Nordamerika bekannten subterranen Arten bestehende Gattung. Die Zugehrigkeit einiger verwandter Gattungen, deren morphologische Verwandschaftsbeziehungen bisher unklar sind, zur Familie der Crangonyctiden wurde in Erwartung weiterer Untersuchungsergebnisse offen gelassen.
25027467|L'amphipode Gammarus zaddachi Sexton est une espce commune dans le nord de la Norvge (fig. 1) o elle prfre l'embouchure des rivires ayant un substrat caillouteux, et occupe une zone o l'influence de la mer ne se fait sentir qu'exceptionnellement. On la trouve galement, mais plus rarement, dans les parties stagnantes du delta des grandes rivires. En Norvge occidentale, Gammarus zaddachi occupe les mmes habitats; de plus on le trouve dans de petites cuvettes presque compltement isoles ( salinit variable si dans la zone intertidale), et dans les parties meso- et oligohalines des fjords les plus importants. A titre d'exemple, la rpartion horizontale et verticale de G. zaddachi et de quelques autres Gammaridae dans le Sognefjord est discute.
25027554|The poecilostome copepod Synaptiphilus tridens occurs as an ecto-associate of the apodous holothurian Leptosynapta inhaerens in Strangford Lough, northern Ireland. About 15% of L. inhaerens from a very heterogeneous substrate the shelter of the lough are infected. However, near the lough's entrance, in a much more uniform substrate of clean sand, morphologically indistinguishable hosts very rarely carry S. tridens. In the laboratory, copepods transferred to hosts from this latter locality tend to show a reduced capacity for survival. Electrophoretic studies of holothurians from the two populations reveal significant differences. It may be suggested that this dissimilarity reflects some subtle physiological variation (possibly affecting, amongst other things, the biochemistry of the mucus secretion) which render the sand-dwelling individuals less suitable as hosts to this copepod. Some experiments are briefly outlined and the results presented.
25027574|A harpacticoid copepod, Tigriopus japonicus Mori, is common in the rock pools along the sea coast of warm water regions. The minimum duration of its life cycle is twelve days. The number of individuals reared increased fairly rapidly with an increased amount of food, such as is used for shrimp. The copepods reached densities of about 19.8 inds/ml after 21 days. The optimal quantity of food for T. japonicus was 0.03 mg/ml/day. Yellow-fin sea bream, Acanthopagrus latus (Houttuyn), fed with Tigriopus grew faster than those fed Artemia nauplii or a combination of Artemia and Tigriopus. Furthermore, fish larvae fed Tigriopus were more active swimmers and showed their characteristic colouration better.
25027484|The stomachs of 715 Chionoecetes bairdi from 11 stations in lower Cook Inlet were examined; 428 stomachs contained prey remains. The percent frequency of occurrence of the major food items within the 428 stomachs were as follows: small clams, 43.6%; hermit crabs, 34.3%; barnacles, 17.8%; crangonid shrimps, 8.6%. Five instances of cannibalism were observed. Occasionally, polychaetes, gastropods, amphipods and ophiuroids were preyed upon. The potential prey available varied from station to station, and snow crab stomachs typically reflected species common to any given station. Snow crabs of different size, sex and state of maturity consumed similar prey species.
25027524|1. Die Wirkung verschiedener Konzentrationen von im Wasser gelsten Schwermetallen
25027426|The species Bathytanais bathybrotes, described by Beddard (1886a, 1886b), is rediscovered. Since the original description was incomplete, and in part even erroneous, the species is redescribed. Moreover, a new deep sea species of Leptognathia is described.
25027406|Des recherches dans le Golfe d'Izmir ont permis de rcolter 28 espces (20 libres, 8 parasitaires) d'Isopodes. A cette collection, nous avons pu ajouter 2 espces saumtres, provenant du Canal de Kyceiz (au sud de la Mer Ege). A notre connaissance, 16 espces sont signales pour la premire fois en Turquie.
25027433|Gammarus lacustris and G. pulex kept under identical experimental conditions, show the same Metabolism/Temperature relation. Variations in certain environmental factors, such as water movement and presence of suitable substratum modify the form and intensity of the M/T curve. An "active" metabolism and a "resting" metabolism can thus be defined for G. lacustris. Two principal zones within the temperature range can be determined according to the variations in metabolism under these different conditions: a first zone of "normal" life temperature (5-10-15C) in which variations of both metabolism and activity of the animal are possible; a second zone of "resistance" (20-25-27C) in which temperature plays a predominant rle. In the latter zone, the respiratory metabolism is at its maximum and cannot be influenced by the other factors any longer. G. lacustris is a lake species living in northern countries or in high mountains. It can withstand low temperatures (0-10C) during very long periods, but exceptionally or for short periods only, temperatures higher than 20C. An environment with a low temperature, stagnant water and a convenient substratum is the one in which the respiratory metabolism in the lowest.
25027564|This paper summarizes the results of several years' work on the systematics of a group which has been virtually ignored in this part of the world. Some forty-five species (twenty-eight of them new), form sixteen genera and seven families have now been recorded from New Zealand. The species were collected from a wide variety of freshwater habitats as well as from coastal and inland brackish water bodies and from damp terrestrial situations. Two new genera have been described from within the family Canthocamptidae and it is proposed to resurrect the genus Antipodiella Brehm, 1928. The origins and relationships of this fauna are considered, together with its ecological and geographical distribution within New Zealand.
25027410|Une collection de onze espces de Crustacs Isopodes terrestres a t obtenue au cours de l'hiver aux Bermudes. Des formes auparavant considres comme propres  l'le sont mises en synonymie avec des espces communes  large rpartition, de sorte qu'aucune d'elles n'est plus considre comme endmique. L'cologie gnrale de ces formes - choix de l'habitat, association d'espces et comportement - est tudie. La composition des populations de plusieurs espces est illustre dans des graphiques, et des comparaisons sont tablies. La plupart des populations ne renferment pas de femelles gravides, mais plusieurs formes, chez lesquelles de telles femelles ont t rcoltes, se reproduisent apparemment toute l'anne. Les populations hivernales se caractrisent par la taille des individus infrieure  la moyenne, mais la prsence dans les rcoltes de spcimens en cours d'exuviation laisse supposer que la croissance se poursuit durant saison. Ce travail comporte des illustrations de la plupart des espces.
25027539|Deux stratgies du dveloppement post-embryonnaire ont t mises en vidence chez Pachypygus gibber, parasite de l'Ascidie Ciona intestinalis. L'une d'elles aboutit aux deux formes reproductrices mle et femelle, types de l'espce, tandis que l'autre aboutit  une forme galement reproductrice mais exclusivement mle, qualifie d'atypique, grossirement dcrite en 1891 comme Agnathaner minutus. Les diffrences entre la forme atypique et les formes typiques concernent la morphologie externe et fonctionelle, la pigmentation, le mode d'existence (libre, sdentaire), la nutrition et le comportement nutritionnel, la capacit d'infester un nouvel hte, l'ontogense du systme nerveux, l'quipement sensoriel et les modalits de la diffrenciation sexuelle. L'occurrence du mle atypique dpend des conditions d'environnement liees  la jeunesse de l'hte, alors que le dveloppement typique se produit dans des htes plus gs. Certains indices laissent  penser que cet exemple n'est pas isol, impliquant alors l'existence d'un mcanisme parasitaire gnral propre aux Coppodes d'Ascidies. Il pourrait tre considr comme un modle des relations existant entre environnement et structures biologiques, non seulement pendant le dveloppement d'une espce, mais aussi au cours de l'volution des espces.
25027561|Within the genus Harpacticus (Harpacticoida), two types are recognized for the differentiation process of the endopodal outer spine of leg 2, leg 3, and leg 4 through the copepodid stages, viz., (1) non-retarded formation type: the endopodal outer spine is present when the endopodite is in one-segmented condition; and (2) retarded formation type: the endopodal outer spine is not present when the endopodite is in one-segmented condition, but is formed through the fourth copepodid moult for the fifth copepodid stage, of which the endopodites are three-segmented. The genera Harpacticella, Tigriopus, and Paratigriopus comprise species of the non-retarded formation type. The non-retarded formation type is supposed as primitive rather than the retarded formation type.
25027359|Zwei Arten der Gattung Caligus werden beschrieben. C. novocaledonicus ist eine fr die Wissenschaft neue Art. Sie wurde auf den Kiemen von Lethrinus miniatus in Neu Caledonien gefunden. Mnnchen und Weibchen dieser Art werden eingehend beschrieben. Die zweite Art, C. confusus, war schon frher aus dem Pazifik bekannt.
25027577|Calanus helgolandicus can be inserted in the list of the 28 dominant copepods in the Adriatic, and on the first place between the large-sized ones. Distribution studies by density index show this species to be a more coastal or shelf species, since its density decreases from the northern to the southern Adriatic and from the coast to open sea in the Central Adriatic. In the Central Adriatic, long-term density variations have been shown to follow seasonal and multiannual fluctuations in abundance. Some causes of reproduction cessation are discussed in connection with the extremes of some environmental conditions (sea water density, salinity).
25027375|Two parasitic copepods have been collected on a small specimen of Mobula mobular (Bonnaterre) in the western Mediterranean: Diphyllogaster thompsoni Brian and a new species of the family Eudactylinidae, Eudactylina oliveri sp. n. The detailed description of this species, together with an attempt of a world-scale morphological comparison of the various species of the genus, demonstrate the incompleteness of our present knowledge.
25027379|The genus Paramacrochiron is discussed and rediagnosed; it includes the type species, P. maximum (Thompson & A. Scott) and three new species, namely, P. ennorense, P. sewelli, and P. rhizostomae, described in this paper. The fifth copepodid male of P. ennorense, the fourth and fifth copepodid male and the fifth copepodid female of P. rhizostomae are described in detail. Notes on collecting procedure for copeopods in medusae have been included.
25027367|Les effets de la temprature ont t nots  tous les stades du dveloppement des Lernaea cyprinacea. Entre 20 et 36 C, la cadence de dveloppement des individus aux stades "nauplius" et "mtanauplius" s'accrot plus on augmente la temprature. A ces stades, ils cessent de se dvelopper au-dessous de 20 C. Des expriences sur la faon dont les Lernaea cyprinacea se dveloppent et pntrent dans l'hte aux stades "coppodite" ont montr qu'ils restaient plus longtemps  ces stades si on abaissait la temprature de 36  24 C ou davantage. A une temprature de 15 C, des larves prises au premier stade "coppodite" ne restaient pas attaches plus de trois jours  leur hte. Nos expriences ont montr que la temprature infrieure critique pour le dveloppement et la pntration doit se situer entre 15 et 20 C. Des femelles ges de 17  20 jours et qui pntraient ont t transfres pendant 110 jours  10 C. Dans le groupe de 17 jours, de nouvelles femelles en mtamorphose sont apparues aprs les 90 premiers jours d'exposition au froid. Aucune nouvelle n'est apparue dans le groupe de 20 jours. Une comparaison morphologique des larves en dveloppement rvle que trois jours de dveloppement  25 C avant l'exposition au froid produisaient un accroissement marqu de la longueur du corps et de la taille de l'ancre. Durant la priode d'exposition au froid, une perte considrable de sujets s'est produite. Ceux-ci se sont dtachs de tissus de l'hte. Quand on a remont la temprature  25 C, le dveloppement s'est achev et il y a eu une production de larves qui infestaient l'hte. Les rsultats de laboratoire compars aux observations faites dans le milieu naturel laissent  penser que la ligne amricaine des Lernaea cyprinacea hiverne dans la chair de son hte. La reproduction de printemps commence avec un petit nombre de femelles qui restent attaches fermement aux tissus.
25027422|1. Die zur Verfgung stehenden Informationen ber die Verbreitung der symbiotischen Isopoden Iais californica und Sphaeroma quoyanum legen die Vermutung nahe, da diese Tiere in Kalifornien Neueinwanderer sind. Sie sind vermutlich von Neuseeland oder der Sdkste von Australien im spten 19. Jahrhundert eingewandert. 2. Die Verbreitung von Sphaeroma quoyanum und ihrer holzbohrenden Verwandten deutet darauf hin, da diese Arten durch den Menschen transportiert worden sind. 3. Die Lebensgewohnheiten von Iais californica, einem Kommensal von Sphaeroma, lassen vermuten, da diese Art primr durch das Wirtstier verbreitet worden ist. 4. I. californica und S. quoyanum zeigen nicht das Ausma der Speziation oder die Breite der geographischen Amplitude in Kalifornien, wie sie von der verwandten Sphaeromatiden-Gattung Gnorimosphaeroma bekannt sind. Dieser Sachverhalt deutet darauf hin, da Sphaeroma und Iais erst krzlich in Kalifornien eingetroffene Arten darstellen. 5. Diskussionen ber die Isopoden in der frhen zoologischen Literatur von Kalifornien geben Anla zu der Annahme, da Sphaeroma und Iais vor 1870 noch nicht in Kalifornien vorhanden waren.
25027553|The annual cycle of Centropages typicus, a typical pelagic copepod from neritic waters, is characterized by a succession of well individualized peaks of abundance, most of them corresponding to cohorts ('generations') whose growth can be followed through successive larval stages. Some problems related to determination and separation of generations are exposed. The separation of different generations is more efficient when using several techniques together, because the analysis of successive stages is not always clear enough. - The beginning of each cohort is marked by an increase of the percentage of females carrying spermatophores, followed by a maximum of the egg production per female. This process is related to the succession of the phytoplankton peaks as shown by correlation studies. Experimental work shows that the quality of algae also plays a role and that egg laying varies with the season, independent of the quantity of algae. - Adults from successive generations, growing under different conditions of temperature or nutrition, can differ by several biometric characters: size, cephalothorax/urosome proportion and antennula/body length ratio. The mean sex ratio of adults is generally 50% but males develop faster than females, so a temporary increase in proportion of males marks the beginning of each adult peak. As an illustration of the above mentioned points, the development of Centropages typicus during an annual cycle is examined in relation to temperature and phytoplankton cycles.
25027396|Die Larven von Leptodius agassizii A. Milne Edwards wurden im Laboratorium aufgezogen, und zwar vom Schlpfen bis zum ersten Krabbenstadium. Dabei wurden Temperatur, Salzgehalt und Licht konstant gehalten. Es gibt 4 Zoa-Stadien und ein Megalopa-Stadium. Die Larven-Stadien werden abgebildet und beschrieben. Eine Variation in der Anzahl der Larven-Stadien wurde nicht beobachtet. Obwohl die erste Zoa von L. agassizii nicht unterschieden werden kann von den Larven der eng verwandten Xanthid-Krabben, dient das Vorhandensein sekundrer Rostraldornen zur Unterscheidung des 2., 3. und 4. Stadiums von allen anderen bisher beschriebenen Larven. Die Megalopa-larve von L. agassizii, welche der Megalopa von Panopeus herbstii hnlich sieht, kann durch das Vorhandensein dreier Aesthtasken am Basis der Antennularflagellum von letzterer unterschieden werden. Die Zeit, welche die Larven von L. agassizii zu ihrer Entwicklung bentigen, ist ungefhr gleich lang wie bei anderen Xanthid-Larven. Zu Vergleichszwecken werden Daten aufgefhrt ber die Entwicklungsdauer und ber berlebensraten der Larven bei 25 C und eine Salinitt von 35.
25027452|Cette tude concerne la distribution verticale et les ractions sous conditions osmotiques sub- et supranormale de deux Gammares (Chaetogammarus marinus et Eulimnogammarus obtusatus) qui occupent le dessous des pierres de la zone intertidale. La zonation verticale des espces ne correspond pas aux donnes de la littrature; les autres auteurs trouvaient les deux espces assez bien spares en zonation verticale. L'analyse quantitative a t faite pendant le jour  mare basse en t. La perte d'eau et la mortalit en prsence d'air non satur et en eau illustrent le fait que l'adaptation  la vie terrestre est trs limite. Les diffrences concernant la rsistance, la prfrence et la rgulation du sodium de l'hmolymphe en fonction de la salinit du milieu sont peu marques. L'influence de la temprature n'est pas importante. E. obtusatus est plus sensible que Ch. marinus  la dessication et au transfert d'une eau de mer dilue  une eau de mer concentre. Cependant, E. obtusatus est plus abondante dans l'habitat intertidal. Les facteurs biologiques sont discuts, de mme que quelques problmes de la zonation.
25027550|Es wurden die Routine Messungen der Massenkulturen des harpaticiden Copepoden Tisbe holothuriae zur Kontrolle des Wachstums und der Produktivitt mit dem automatischen Bildanalyse System "Quantimet 23C" durchgefhrt. Die Anzahl, Flche, Umfang, Lnge, und Breite der verschiedenen Entwicklungsstadien bestimmte man bei einem spezifischen Grauwert. Wir entwickelten besondere Plastikkuvetten, um bei 1.2facher Vergrsserung nur ein Gesichtsfeld pro Probe und Messung zu erreichen. Aneinanderliegende Tiere wurden durch knstliches Schrumpfen (eroding) getrennt. Detritus kann manuell mit dem zum Quantimet 23C gehrendem Lichtgriffel von der Detektion ausgeschlossen werden. Zuzglich werden alle Exuvien nicht mitgemessen, da sie nicht den entsprechenden Hell-Dunkel Kontrast aufweisen und wir erhielten nur die Messdaten fr alle lebenden Copepoden. Das Trockengewicht der Probe wird ber die frher aufgestellte Flche/Trockengewicht Korrelation errechnet. Als Ergebnis der Auswertung einer Probe mit dem automatischen Bildanalysegert erhalten wir die Biomasse in mg Trockengewicht, die gesamte Anzahl und Flche der Nauplien, Copepoditen und adulten Copepoden und die Hufigkeit der Tiere in den verschiedenen stadiumsspezifischen Grssenklassen (Unterteilung in 6 Nauplius, in 5 Copepodit Stadien und in die Gruppe der gesamten adulten Copepoden, zuzglich der Grossenklasse der weiblichen Tiere mit Eisack).
25027537|A detailed study of all the organ systems in Benthomisophria has been carried out, with particular emphasis on the skeletomusculature. All misophrioids possess a carapace-like posterior extension of the cephalosome which completely encloses, both dorsally and laterally, the first pedigerous somite which lies beneath but which is not fused to the cephalosome. The presence of this 'carapace' in the bathypelagic Benthomisophria is associated with the ability to gorge until virtually all free space within the prosome is occupied by the gut. Another unique feature is the presence, in Benthomisophria, of lateral areas of cone organs on the cephalosome. These organs project from the body surface, are funnel-shaped, and bear an apical sphere of secretion. They are positioned so that the setae of the reflexed second antenna and mandibular palp sweep over them. Functional interpretations are offered. The phylogenetic position of the Misophrioida is also discussed. They exhibit an unusual combination of ancestral, unique (autapomorphic) and convergent character states that makes the identification of a sister-group a difficult task.
25027371|Drei Arten lernaeopodider Copepoden - Brachiella trichiuri Gnanamuthu, B. indica n. sp. und Clavellopsis appendiculata Kirtisinghe - werden im Detail beschrieben. Auf Grund der Untersuchungsergebnisse wird festgestellt, da Isobranchia appendiculata Heegaard mit Clavellopsis appendiculata synonym sein knnte, und da die Validitt von Isobranchia zweifelhaft ist.
25027408|Es werden zwei neue Arten der Isopodenfamilie Bopyridae beschrieben, die zu neuen Gattungen gehren. Loki circumsaltanus n. gen. n. sp., ist ein Schmarotzer der seichtwasserbewohnenden Garnele Thor floridanus Kingsley aus Sdflorida, whrend Dicropleon periclimenis n. gen. n. sp. eine andere Garnele, Periclimenes (Harpilius) americanus Kingsley, aus der westindischen Insel St. Lucia parasitiert. Fr die Unterfamilie dieser und verwandter Gattungen wird ein neuer Name, Hemiarthrinae, vorgeschlagen, weil der ehemalige Name Phryxinae aus einem ungltigen Gattungsnamen abgeleitet wurde.
25027528|The ecology of a freshwater gammarid species, Gammarus fossarum Koch, 1836, was studied in a small river on the French Channel coast. Size, reproductive time, reproduction rates, fecundity etc. varied largely between populations at different sampling sites. Differences in the variability of environmental factors were relatively small. Therefore the microgeographic variation in life histories must be of genetic and not of phenotypic origin. This conclusion: the existence of microgeographical races, means that populations of gammarids even in a small river live rather isolated. Hence migration does not serve breeding purposes.
25027513|Die Gattung Niphargus Schidte ist im Kaukasus mit 22 Arten und Unterarten vertreten. Die meisten von ihnen wurden vor 30 Jahren kurz beschrieben, und ihre systematische Stellung ist in vielen Fllen unklar. Die Morphologie und Variabilitt von N. ablaskiri Birstein, 1940, und N. borutzkyi Birstein, 1933, die der Autor im Kaukasus sammelte, werden beschrieben. N. borutzkyi, der von Birstein (1952) als Unterart von N. stygius Schidte betrachtet wurde, und N. abricossovi Birstein, 1933, der von Birstein (1941) als Unterart von N. tatrensis Wrzesniowski angesehen wurde, werden fr getrennte Arten gehalten.
25027415|Un Isopode d'eau douce largement rpandu en Amrique du Nord, Asellus communis Say, 1818, est signal pour la premire fois de la Grande-Bretagne.
25027392|Die hier beschriebenen Larven stammen von 2 weiblichen Palmendieben, Birgus latro (L.), mit reifen Eiern, die auf dem Eniwetok Atoll in den Marshall Inseln gefangen wurden. Die Eier schlpften aus sobald sie in kleinen Glasbehltern mit sterilem Meerwasser untergetaucht wurden. Die Larven entwickelten sich im Laboratorium durch 4 freischwimmende Zoa-Stadien zu einer postlarvalen Glaucotho, die sich dann in das erste Krabben-Stadium verwandelte. Bisweilen gab es ein fnftes Zoa-Stadium. Die Glaucotho bewohnt eine Schneckenschale und zeigt so ein Verhalten, hnlich wie seine einsiedlerkrebsartige Vorahnen. In diesem Stadium verliessen die Tiere das Wasser und krochen auf trockenes Land, das in den kleinen Terrarien vorhanden war. Erwachsene Palmendiebe leben nicht mehr in Schneckenschalen. Im Beginn der Entwicklung geschah das Huten bei den verschiedenen Larven synchron, aber mit zunehmendem Alter der Larvenstadien wurde die Dauer der Periode in der die Hutung auftreten konnte lnger; die Hutungen vom letzten Larvenstadium bis zur Glaucotho geschahen bei den verschiedenen Exemplaren derselben Brut innerhalb einer Zeitspanne von 18 Tagen. Diese Variationen in Hutungszyklus sind wohl als eine Art Adaptation aufzufassen. Es wird dadurch bewirkt, dass wenigstens einige Larven von jedem Weibchen bei der letzten Hutung eine benachbarte Atolle erreichen und dort vllig auswachsen knnen. Die Zoae von Birgus sind dadurch charakterisiert, dass das 5. Abdominalsegment zwei submediane Dorsalstachel und beiderseits am Hinterrand einen Lateralstachel trgt. Die andern Abdominalsegmente sind stachelfrei. Die Glaucotho dieser Art unterscheidet sich von derjenige anderer Arten durch das Antennalflagellum, das aus den 11 distalen Antennalsegmenten gebildet ist, wovon das letzte eine sehr lange Endborste und eine Anzahl viel krzerer Hrchen trgt. Nur die Arten von Coenobita zeigen die lange Endborste, doch haben sie nur 7 distale Antennalsegmente.
25027525|Anisogammarus annandalei (Tattersall) aus dem Biwa-See zeigt bekanntlich tagesperiodische Vertikalwanderung. Ergnzende Untersuchungen dazu haben ergeben: 1. A. annandalei und die nchstverwandte A. jesoensis Schellenberg leben auch in flieenden Gewssern und zeigen dort tagesperiodische Drift. 2. Sowohl Vertikalwanderung als auch Drift werden durch tagesperiodische Vernderungen in der lokomotorischen Aktivitt der Tiere verursacht. 3. Die tagesperiodische Aktivitt beruht auf endogenem Rhythmus, wobei Licht als Zeitgeber wirkt.
25027409|Es werden vier neue Arten von westatlantischen tropischen parastischen Isopoden beschrieben, die zur Gattung Parathelges Bonnier 1900 gehren. Parathelges occidentalis n. sp. parasitiert Clibanarius tricolor (Gibbes) in Florida und bei den Bahamainseln und Iridopagurus sp. unweit von Venezuela. Parathelges tumidipes n. sp. parasitiert Dardanus n. sp. in der Nhe von Jamaica. Parathelges piriformis n. sp. parasitiert Pagurus miamiensis Provenzano in Bermuda. Parathelges foliatus n. sp. parasitiert Clibanarius vittatus (Bosc) in Trinidad. Dies sind die ersten Meldungen dieser Gattung in der westlichen Halbkugel und im Atlantischen Ozean. Gattungsmerkmale beider Geschlechter der Gattung, wie auch Schlssel zur Bestimmung der Weibchen und Mnnchen aller bekannten Arten der Gattung werden prsentiert.
25027764|The subterranean crangonyctid, Synurella ambulans ssp. tenebrarum (Wrzeniowski, 1888) status n. is redescribed and figured from type-specimens originally described as Boruta tenebrarum. Affinities between the underground taxa of Synurella ambulans (O.F. Mller, 1846) and Synurella intermedia Dobreanu, Manolache & Puscariu, 1952 (ssp. tenebrarum, forma subterranea S. Karaman, 1931, and ssp. montenigrina G.S. Karaman, 1974), are discussed. The taxon montenigrina is considered a subspecies of S. ambulans.
25027429|Fnfundvierzig Amphipoden-Arten wurden im flachen Wasser an mehreren Stellen der Delaware Bay Kste gesammelt. Ihre Verbreitungsareale wurden wie folgt unterteilt: (1a) schutzlose sandige Strande: Haustorius canadensis und Talorchestia megalophthalma; (1b) geschtzte sandige Strande: Orchestia grillus, O. uhleri, T. megalophthalma. (2) Piere: Jassa falcata, Hyale plumulosa, Caprella penantis, Paracaprella tenuis und Ampithoe valida. (3a) Austernbnke im mixohalinen Gezeitengebiet: Melita nitida, Gammarus tigrinus, G. daiberi, Corophium lacustre, C. insidiosum; (3b) Austernbnke in der Delaware Bay: Parametopella cypris, Cerapus tubularis, Corophium insidiosum, Unciola serrata, Micrprotopus raneyi (in mesohalinen Gebieten der Delawarre Bay: Gammarus tigrinus und G. daiberi). (4) Schlickig-sandige Boden in Rehoboth Bay und Indian River Bay mit Infauna-arten: Ampelisca abdita, A. vadorum, Lysianopsis alba, Paraphoxus spinosus, P. epistomus; und mit Epifauna-arten: Microdeutopus gryllotalpa, Gammarus mucronatus, Corophium acherusicum, C. insidiosum und C. tuberculatum (auf Hydroiden, Ectoprocten, Tunicaten und Algen). Eine mglicherweise neue Art ist Parapleustes sp. Von den Delaware Bay-Arten wurden 75% an der Georgia-Kste gefunden. Die Verbreitung von Microdeutopus gryllotalpa, Corophium insidiosum und Parahaustorius attenuatus wird sdwrts zur Delaware Bay hin erweitert, die Verbreitung von Melita appendiculata von der Chesapeake Bay nordwrts nach Delaware.
25027570|Taxocenose structures of Harpacticoidea in the Baget karstic system (Pyrenees) were studied by input (catastrophic drift) and output (samples collected in springs during floods) analysis. On the scale of the karstic system, the organization of the Harpacticoidea taxocenose is submitted to variations, connected with hydrological cycles. The diversity index and abundance structures are discussed according to characteristics of the subterranean environment.
25027365|Description de deux espces de Coppodes de la famille des Lichomolgidae, toutes deux associes  des Plcypodes provenant de Nosi B, Madagascar. Les deux espces sont Gelastomolgus spondyli n. gen., n. sp. (hte Spondylus varians) et Lichomolgus chamarum n. sp. (hte Chama iostoma).
25027482|Die Entwicklung des Epipoditen der zweiten Maxillipeden und die Kiemenentwicklung bei Libinia erinacea (A. Milne Edwards), von der ersten Zoea bis zum sechsten Postlarvalstadium, werden beschrieben. Unterschiede in der Entwicklung der Kiemen bei den Majidae und anderen Brachyura werden diskutiert.
25027760|The operation of cluster, principal coordinates, parsimony and compatibility analyses was examined using the six species of the ischyrocerid genus Microjassa. Microjassa species frequently exhibited a closer phenetic and cladistic relation to species of an undescribed genus than to species of Jassa or Ischyrocerus. Species of the isaeid genera Gammaropsis and Protomedeia were always more distant. Polarization of characters by outgroup comparison produced phylogenies in which the Isaeidae, as currently classified, were paraphyletic. A method by which character state polarities were derived by parsimony from a mixture of the closer and the more distant outgroups yielded a more parsimonious phylogeny in which the isaeid species were monophyletic. Compatibility analysis demonstrated that the male second gnathopod, traditionally heavily utilized for classification of these species, provided little information of use in reconstructing a phylogeny. /// Six espces d'Ischyrocrides du genre Microjassa ont t soumises  diffrentes analyses,  savoir typologique, des coordonns principales, selon le principe de parcimonie et comptabilit. On a souvent observ dans l'ensemble des Microjassa des relations cladistiques et phntiques plus rapproches des espces d'un genre nouveau que de celles de Jassa ou Ischyrocerus. Les espces des genres isaeides Gammaropsis et Protomedeia taient toujours plus loignes. La polarisation des caractres effectue en comparant des groupes de rfrence a produit des phylognies dans lesquelles les Isaeids, tels que classs actuellement, taient paraphyltiques. L'obtention de la polarit des diffrents caractres grce  l'analyse selon le principe parcimonie des groupes de rfrence, les uns plus loigns, les autres, plus rapprochs, a produit une phylognie o les espces isaeides taient monophyltiques. Une analyse de comptabilit a dmontr que le second gnathopode du mle, sur lequel on se fondait en grande partie pour classer les espces, donnait peu de renseignements utiles pour la reconstitution d'une phylognie.
25027562|Es wurden zwei japanische Moraria Arten in morphologischen Merkmalen mit einander verglichen, zum Teil unter den Rasterelektronenmikroskop. Characteristische Unterschiede werden rapportiert.
