23215562|Revision of the genus Trichocline (Compositae). The genus Trichocline belongs to the family of the Compositae, tribe Mutisieae, and it includes 22 species, most of them from South America, and only one from Australia. In South America the genus is distributed in two geographical areas, both with the same number of species: the Andean area extending through Bolivia, Chile and W of Argentina and the south brazilian area extending through the south of Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and NE of Argentina. Three species grow in the northern or central part of Argentina. The genus is divided into three sections: Nervifolium, with one species, Amblysperma, with two species and Trichocline, with 19 species. The author considers that the most primitive section is Nervifolium, and in the section Trichocline which includes most of the species, the most primitive species are those which grow in the south brazilian area. The pollen of this genus has been studied and the chromosome number of three species has been determined. All the species are described and illustrated. The following new taxa or combinations are proposed: Trichocline spathulata (Phil.) nov. comb., Trichocline auriculata var. breviscapa nov. var., Chaptalia denticulata (Bak.) nov. comb., and Chaptalia martii (Bak.) nov. comb. A number of synonyms is proposed, all of them based on the study of the respective nomenclatural types.
23222536|A new species of Caesalpinia (Leguminosae) from Peru. Caesalpinia ancashiana nov. sp. is described and illustrated. It is related to C. bangii Rusby, but with different numbers of pinnae and size of the flowers.
23215730|A detailed biometrical study of Vicia in Tierra del Fuego demonstrates that two species can be recognized, differing in pollen size and structure, leaflet size, peduncle length and leaf-tendril form and size. The Andean Patagonian diploid V. bijuga Gillies ex Hook. & Arn. is restricted to northern and eastern Tierra del Fuego, while the tetraploid V. magellanica Hook. f. extends further south and west, reaching the south side of the Beagle Channel. In cultivation both species are shown to be self-compatible and capable of self- pollination. Rarely, naturally occurring triploids (2n = 21) have been found. El estudio biomtrico detallado de Vicia en Tierra del Fuego revela que se pueden reconocer dos especies, que se diferencian en el tamao y estructura del polen, el tamao de los foliolos, la longitud de los pednculos y la forma y tamao de los zarcillos. El diploide patagnico-andino V. bijuga Gillies ex Hook. & Arn. est limitado en su distribucin al Norte y Este de la Tierra del Fuego, mientras que el tetraploide V. magellanica Hook. f. se extiende ms al Sur y al Oeste, alcanzando la parte Sur del Canal Beagle. Bajo cultivo, ambas especies muestran ser autocompatibles y capaces de autopolinizacin. Raramente se pueden encontrar hbridos naturales triploides (2 n = 21).
23211609|The autor gives the description of several teratological cases found on Gramineae, some of which are not mentioned in the bibliography. These monstruosities are: 1, Koeleria phleoides (Vill.) Pers., phyllody, proliferation and polyphyllia; 2, Bromus macranthus Meyen, phyllody and polyphyllia; 3, Dactylis glomerata L., phyllody, proliferation and polyphyllia; 4, Lolium multiflorum Lam., contortion, proliferation and phyllody; 5, Distichlis spicata (L.) Grekne, hermaphroditism; 6, Panicum demissum Trin., phyllody and others malformations; 7, Setaria Poiretiana (Schult.) Kunth, flattening; 8, Ichnanthus pallens (Sw.) Munro, bracteomania.
23223864|The South American tribe Adesmieae (Benth.) Hutch, comprises only the genus Adesmia DC., with a total of 43 series and approximately 240 species of herbs and shrubs, mainly growing in montane and semi-desert zones. This genus includes two subgenera: Adesmia (unarmed) and Acanthadesmia Burkart (armed). Adesmia in Argentina is represented by 31 series: the subgenus Adesmia with 25 series and the subgenus Acanthadesmia with 6 series. A total of 100 species and 14 varieties are considered for the country, of wich 45 are native and 53 are endemic. Keys, descriptions, literature, synonymy, habitat, specimens studied and remarks are given. Series 3. Bicolores, 4. Capitellatae, 6. Coronilloides, 10. Lanatae, 13. Longisetae, 16. Muricatae, 18. Pumilae, 24. Stenocaules, 26. Candidae, 27. Coluteoides, 28. Guttuliferae, 30. Microphyllae and 31. Subterraneae were emended since the Burkart's Synopsis (1967a). Two news varieties: A. corymbosa var. sinepenna (serie Longisetae) and A. cordobensis var. appendiculata (serie Muricatae) are described. La tribu sudamericana Adesmieae (Benth.) Hutch. comprende solamente el gnero Adesmia DC., con 43 series y cerca de 240 especies herbceas o arbustivas que habitan principalmente en zonas montaosas y semi-desrticas Este gnero incluye 2 subgneros: Adesmia (inermes) y Acanthadesmia Burkart (espinosas). El gnero en Argentina est representado por 31 series; Adesmia con 25 series y Acanthadesmia con 6 series. En total son 100 especies y 14 variedades; 45 son nativas y 53 endmicas. Esta sinopsis incluye una clave general para las series y otras de especies para cada serie. Se dan descripciones, sinonimia, referencias iconogrficas, distribucin, materiales y observaciones para cada una de esas especies. Las series 3. Bicolores, 4. Capitellatae, 6. Coronilloides, 10. Lanatae, 13. Longisetae, 16. Muricatae, 18. Pumilae, 24. Stenocaules, 26. Candidae, 27. Coluteoides, 28. Guttuliferae, 30. Microphyllae y 31. Subterraneae, han sufrido cambios desde la Sinopsis de Burkart (1967a), principalmente las series 3, 4, 6, 10, 13, 16, 26, 27, 28 y 31 en esta revisin. Se describen dos nuevas variedades: A. corymbosa var. sinepenna (serie Longisetae) y A. cordobensis var. appendiculata (serie Muricatae).
23223000|Three genera and nineteen species of foliose Physciaceae from Buenos Aires Province are studied. Their common features are summarized and main morphological variability illustrated. Generic descriptions are provided. Species are briefly described, commented and illustrated. Problems related to the identification of some secondary products, the anatomy and histology of thalli and apothecia, and the vegetative propagules, as well as the corresponding terminology, are discussed. The importance of an adequate methodology for studying the thallus structure is stressed. Keys to genera and species have been published in an earlier paper (Bol. Soc. Argent. Bot. 28: 169-173, 1992).
23213887|A new species of Morchella is described from Costa Rica with the name of Morchella herediana. A comparison, based on chromatic macrochemical reactions as those used in the taxonomy of Agaricales is tried effectively with Morchella elata Fr., previously reported from Costa Rica, and the new species. The affinities of Morchella herediana with Morchella intermedia Boudier from Madagascar and Morchella patagonica Speg. from South America are discussed in table two. The author also reports some oecological observations on the fungus.
23215066|The author analizes the various cases of epiphytism in algae from continental water and records the taxa found, amongst which are 2 genera and 19 spp. new to Argentina. The methodology employed is also described and a classification of epiphytic algae is proposed by arranging them in three categories. This is the first of a series of three papers, the nex two dealing with spp. of epiphytic Cyanophyta and Chlorophyta.
23223905|This paper deals with the interpretation, description and typological characterization of the inflorescences of the following genera of the tribe Petreeae Briq.: Petrea L., Xolocotzia Miranda and Recordia Moldenke. All of them have a polytelic type of synflorescence. Florescences of all genera are racemes with decussate bracts. The heterothetic diplobotryum is present in Recordia and also in several species of Petrea. Truncation of the main florescence has been found in P. maynensis J. Huber, P. volubilis L. and P. pubescens Turcz. giving rise to an homothetic diplobotryum. Suppression of the enriching zone occurs in Xolocotzia, Recordia and some species of Petrea. Xolocotzia has monobotrya and reduction of flower number within the florescences. In the monobotrya the pair of leaves preceding the basal internode is bracteose and bears axillary resting buds. In the heterothetic diplobotryum this node represents an intercalar inhibition zone. Some Petrea species show aborted accesory paraclades. These arise from the accesory axillary buds of the enrichment zone. According to this study, the heterothetic pleiobotryum has been considered as a primitive or central form, from which monobotrya derived through processes of suppression of the enrichment zone, and homothetic pleiobotrya, by suppression of the main florescence (truncation). The use of inflorescence characters for a cladistic analysis accomplished by Rueda (1994) for the genus Petrea, are discussed. Se interpretan, describen y caracterizan tipolgicamente las inflorescencias de los generos pertenecientes a la tribu Petreeae Briq.: Petrea L., Xolocotzia Miranda y Recordia Moldenke. En todos los casos las inflorescencias son del tipo politlico; las florescencias son racimos con brcteas decusadas. Se han encontrado diplobotrios hetroteticos en Recordia, y en algunas especies de Petrea, diplobotrios homotticos en P. maynensis J. Huber, P. volubilis L. y P. pubescens Turcz. y monobotrios en Xolocotzia, Recordia y algunas especies de Petrea. En los monobotrios el par de hojas que precede al entrenudo basal es bracteoso y porta yemas axilares en reposo, en los diplobotrios hetroteticos este nudo, con iguales caractersticas, representa una zona de inhibicon intercalar. Algunas especies de Petrea muestran paracladios accesorios abortados que tienen su origen en yemas axilares accesorias de la zona de enriquecimiento. En este estudio el pleiobotrio heterottico se considera una forma primitiva o central de la que derivan los monobotrios por supresin de la zona de enriquecimiento, y los pleiobotrios homotticos por supresin de la florescencia principal (truncamiento). Se discute la interpretacon y utilizacin de los caracteres de la inflorescencia, aplicados a un anlisis cladstico del gnera Petrea, realizado por Rueda (1994).
23218956|Taxonomic and floristic note on two Southamerican species of Ephedra (Ephedraceae). Ephedra andina C. Meyer is considered to be a synonym of E. chilensis C. Presol; the latter binomial having been considered earlier as a "nomen dubium" is rehabilitated. The presence of E. multiflora Stapf in Chile is breafly discussed and is supported by an exsiccata collected at the Antofagasta Province.
23216498|This is the second contribution to the knowledge of the micromycetes growing on Nothofagus dombeyi leaf-litter. A new genus of Hyphomycetes (Moniliaceae) is proposed: Capsicumyces with C. delicatus as type species and the following new species are described and illustrated: Triclocladium diversi-coloratum, Cordana andinopatagonica, Janetia bacilliformis, Acrophragmis laevispora. A new combination is proposed: Hymenoscyphus nubilipes (Boud.) Gamund. Several species of Fungi Imperfecti first recorded for Argentina are described and illustrated; also mentioned three Ascomycetes and one Basidiomycetes on the same sustratum.
23223011|With the purpose of identifying the most important honey plants of the Paran River Delta, field observations were made in order to assess honey bee (Apis mellifera L.) activity. The Asteraceae family is the best represented in number of species and the most visited by bees. The Leguminosae family was placed second. Species with massive blooms were used whenever they were present. Many species were used by bees only during a short period in the blooming season in spite of being available. The floral resource, estimated as the number of flowering species by week was hich at the beginning of spring and at the end of summer, showing a decrease at the beginning of the summer season. The species used with greater intensity during all their blooming period are considered to be a good resource.
23225111|Viola micranthella and V. pygmaea, both entities belonging to section Andinium, are reported for the first time for Argentina. The first one occurs in Salta and Jujuy provinces and the second one in Salta. Both species are described and illustrated and distribution maps are provided. Se citan por primera vez para Argentina Viola micranthella y V. pygmaea, ambas pertenecientes a la Seccin Andinium. La primera se halla en las provincias de Salta y Jujuy mientras que V. pygmaea crece en Salta. Los taxones se describen e ilustran y se proveen los mapas de distribucin geogrfica en Sudamrica y, con mayor detalle, en Argentina.
23217321|Marine diatoms from the Chubut Province (Argentina) Centrales I. Twenty eight species and varieties of Diatoms from Chubut (Repblica Argentina), were studied using both light and scanning electron microscope. Ten of them are new for this region. Furthermore, Rhizosolenia imbricata var. minima Rivera is recorded for the first time for the South Atlantic Ocean; Rhizosolenia setigera fa. pungens (Cleve) Brunel and Chaetoceros borealis fa. solitaria Cleve represent new records for Argentina.
23230201|Ten species of Ascomycota on bark or wood of Podocarpus parlatorei are described and illustrated. Nemania confluens var. microspora var. nov. and Togninia minutissima comb. nov. are proposed; Botryosphaeria sarmentorum, Ceratostomella pyrenaica, Cochliobolus kusanoi, Heptameria obesa, Hypoxylon duranii, Ophioceras dolichostomum, Tengiomyces indicus, Togninia minima, Trichosphaeria pilosa are recorded for the first time from Argentina. Se describen e ilustran diez especies de Ascomycota que crecen sobre madera y corteza de Podocarpus parlatorei. Se proponen Nemania confluens var. microspora var. nov., Togninia minutissima comb. nov., y se citan por primera vez para la Argentina los siguientes taxones: Botryosphaeria sarmentorum, Ceratostomella pyrenaica, Cochliobolus kusanoi, Heptameria obesa, Hypoxylon duranii, Ophioceras dolichostomum, Tengiomyces indicus, Togninia minima, Trichosphaeria pilosa.
23223870|In the present work the mitotic chromosome number and karyotype of Hoffmannseggia glauca are reported. Its number is 2n=24 as previously was reported for other species of Hoffmannseggia. The karyotype is symmetrical and composed by 8m + 3sm + 1st pairs. Chromosomes are small sized. Their average size is 0,87-1,31 m for the m type, 1,17-1,51 m for the sm type and 0,90 m for the st type. En el presente trabajo se informa el nmero de cromosomas somticos y el cariotipo de Hoffmannseggia glauca. Su nmero es 2n=24 como previamente fue citado para otras especies de Hoffmannseggia. El cariotipo es simtrico y est compuesto por 8 pares m, 3 pares sm y 1 par st. Los cromosomas son de pequeo tamao. El tamao promedio es 0,87-1,31 m para el tipo m, 1,17-1,51 m para el tipo sm y 0,90 m para el tipo st.
23213895|This paper deals with the morphological study of the Argentine species of the genus Spigelia, five of which: S. insignis Prog., S. nicotianaeflora Chod. et Hassl., S. paraguariensis Chod., S. rojasiana Krnzl., S. stenophylla Prog., are new records for the Argentine flora. A key, descriptions, synonyms and illustrations of all the species are given. A quantitative study of the variability in S. humboldtiana is carried out using biometric methods. As a result, several cases of synonymy are established or confirmed.
23215547|In this paper we carry out the morphological study of the seeds of Prosopis sect. Algarobia from North and Central America and the northern countries of South America. Although this group has been studied several times, the seeds have not been thoroughly analysed. The main purpose of this work is to fill this gap of information. Descriptions, illustrations, tables containing the quantitative data and an artificial key for the identification of the seeds are given.
23211952|L'auteur fait une rvision critique du genre Elateriopsis Ernst (Cucurbitaceae) dans lequel il reconnait 5 espces: E. macropoda (Poepp. et Endl.) Cogn., E. spectabilis Mart. Crov., E. Oerstedii (Cogn.) Pittier, E. caracasana Ernst y E. Grisebachii (Cogn.) Mart.-Crov. Le genre, qui comprend des plantes grimpantes tropicales, habite en Amrique du Sud et Amrique Centrale, depuis le nord du Prou jusqu' Costa Rica.
23228365|The ornamentation pattern of the upper anthecium in species of Paniceae belonging to the PCK group, in particular of the genus Urochloa, was analyzed. Nineteen different ornamentation patterns were recognized, of which 11 are reported for the first time. Several epidermal elements are described, including simple papillae, compound papillae and ridges in the anticlinal or periclinal cell walls. The ornamentation patterns were useful for infrageneric delimitation in the genus Urochloa but not to delimit the genus from related ones; on the contrary, this character provided more evidence to sustain the paraphyly of the genus. Systematic and phylogenetic value of this character in Urochloa and other related genera are also discussed. Se analiz el patrn de ornamentacin del antecio superior en especies de Paniceae pertenecientes al clado PCK, en particular del gnero Urochloa. Como resultado se hallaron 19 patrones de ornamentacin diferentes, de los cuales 11 se describen aqu por primera vez. Varios elementos epidrmicos son descritos, incluyendo papilas simples, papilas compuestas y engrosamientos, tanto en las paredes celulares anticlinales como periclinales. Los patrones de ornamentacin resultaron de valor para la delimitacin infragenrica de Urochloa, pero no para delimitar este gnero de otros relacionados; por el contrario, este carcter provee ms evidencia que sustenta la parafilia del gnero. Se discute tambin el valor sistemtico y filogentico del patrn de ornamentacin del antecio superior en Urochloa y gneros vecinos.
23230230|Pollen morphology of eight species of Cyclanthera and three species of Sicyos was studied using light and scanning electron microscopy. Pollen grains of Cyclanthera have a mean polar diameter of 51.40 m, and an equatorial mean diameter of 49.10 m, a prolate spheroidal shape (P/E = 1.11), 4-7 zonocolporate, with circular endoapertures, and punctitegilate exine. Pollen grains of Sicyos have a mean polar diameter of 50.60 m and a mean equatorial diameter of 61.30 m, an oblate spheroidal shape (P/E = 0.88), 8-12 colpate, supra and microreticulate echinate exine. Differences among the genera and species are discussed. Se estudi la morfologa polnica de ocho especies de Cyclanthera y tres especies de Sicyos con microscopia ptica y electrnica de barrido. Los granos de polen de Cyclanthera presentan un dimetro polar medio de 51,40 m y un dimetro ecuatorial medio de 49,10 m, con formato prolato esferoidal (P/E = 1,11), 4-7 zonacolporado con endoabertura circular y exina punctitegilada. Los granos de Sicyos poseen el dimetro polar medio de 50,60 m y un dimetro ecuatorial medio de 61,30 m, formato oblato esferoidal (P/E = 0,88), 8-12 colpados, y la exina supra y microreticulada equinada. Se discuten las diferencias entre los gneros y las especies.
23218126|Contribution to the knowledge of Chaetomorpha aerea (Dillwyn) Ktzing (Cladophorales, Chlorophyta). Chaetomorpha aerea from the rocky shores of Mar del Plata (Prov. Buenos Aires, Rep. Argentina) was cultured in laboratory. Morphological and cytological studies were made. The chromosome number (n = 10) was found. Reproduction, accomplished by biflagellate swarmers with direct development, was observed.
23225126|Schwartzia is a small genus of 17 species distributed in wet lowland forests or montane cloud forests from Costa Rica to southern Brazil, and also in the Lesser Antilles; it belongs to the Marcgraviaceae, a Neotropical family. Three species are considered in this paper for Brazil and one of these is described as a new species. The three taxa are endemic to Brazil. Each taxon is described; a key to identification of the species as well as information on distribution and ecology are also provided. Schwartzia es un pequeo gnero de la familia neotropical Marcgraviaceae que comprende 17 especies. ste se distribuye en bosques hmedos de tierras bajas o en bosques montanos de niebla desde Costa Rica hasta el sur de Brasil y tambin en las Antillas Menores. En esta contribucin se tratan tres especies, todas endmicas de Brasil, una de las cuales se describe como nueva. Cada taxn se describe y adems se brindan datos acerca de su distribucin geogrfica y ecologa. Adems se provee una clave para la identificacin de los taxones presentes en Brasil.
23217331|Chromosome numbers on Asteraceae from Crdoba. Meiotic chromosome counts and observations are given for 24 species of Asteraceae from Crdoba province, Repblica Argentina. Eleven are investigated cytologically for the first time: Vernonia mollissima (n = ca. 54), V. saltensis (n = 16), Eupatorium arnottianum (n = 30), E. hookerianum (n = 60), E. viscidum (n = 10), Conyza albida (n = 27), Heterothalamus alienus (n = 9), Liabum candidum var. candidum (n = 14), Senecio bonariensis (n = 20), S. pampeanus (n = 20), S. vira-vira (n = 20). Besides, in Vernonia nudiflora (n = 17), Hysterionica jasionoides (n = 36) and Ambrosia tenuifolia (n = ca. 72) different numbers to those reported previously in the literature were found. The significance of the results taking into account previous studies in the family is discused.
23215056|Root cuttings taken from vertical and horizontal roots of Solanum eleagnifolium Cav. were found to have a high capacity for regeneration. The potencial of this species to form new roots and shoots is a rhithmie physiological process. Those cuttings obtained in the winter exhibited the maximum regeneration activity, while those collected during the summer, at the time of maximum flowering, had the minimum amount of regeneration. The number of roots initiated exceeded that of shoots on all root cuttings collected during all months of the year. Also more roots and shoots were differentiated on vertical root cuttings than on horizontal ones. The relative position of the new roots and shoots on both horizontal and vertical root segments clearly indicate the existence of the phenomenon of polarity. Those samples arising from vertical roots showed a high potential for regeneration regardless of the depth from which they were extracted. Some cuttings were still alive after being kept for fifteen months with the only requirement of a moist environment. They still exhibited a capacity for differentiation after this length of time.
23227995|Canna ascendens sp. nov. is described from several populations found in moist coastal and central locations of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, often growing together with another colonial, urban species, C. variegatifolia, having larger plants with variegated leaves. Plants of C. ascendens are tall and large, yet smaller and more delicate than plants of C. variegatifolia; the leaves are concolorous, green, ovate to ovate-lanceolate in outline, usually conduplicate along their midrib with epicuticular wax over a striated or folded epidermis. More or less abundant intercellular pectic protuberances (warts) were found on the cell walls of both adaxial and abaxial hypodermis. The inflorescences are polytelic, reduced, with 1-2 paraclades or, eventually, no paraclades at all. Paraclade flowers are few, often only one, with a dull, rosy orange color. Plants were investigated anatomically, and a detailed description with diagnostic characters is included. The new species is compared with other species of Canna that grow in the area and also with other argentine species. Canna ascendens sp. nov. se describe a partir de poblaciones situadas en localidades hmedas, costeras y centrales de la provincia de Buenos Aires, a menudo coexistiendo con C. variegatifolia, otra especie colonial y urbana representada por plantas ms grandes, con hojas variegadas. Las plantas de C. ascendens son altas y grandes, aunque ms delicadas y de tamao algo menor que las de C. variegatifolia. Las hojas son concolores, verdes, ovadas a ovado lanceoladas, con frecuencia se doblan lo largo de la vena media, en forma conduplicada; en estado natural presentan una cubierta de cera epicuticular sobre la epidermis plegada y estriada y abundantes protuberancias intercelulares pcticas (verrugas) distribuidas sobre las paredes de las clulas de las hipodermis abaxial y adaxial. Las inflorescencias son politlicas reducidas, con 1-2 paracladios o con stos ausentes. Las flores son pocas, a menudo una sola, de color anaranjado rosado apagado. Se efectuaron anlisis de la anatoma, se da una descripcin completa de la nueva especie que incluye nuevos caracteres y se la compar con otras que crecen en la misma rea y con otras especies de Argentina.
23225161|Evidence from recent molecular studies suggested a reappraisal of genome relationships between Larrea ameghinoi and the other South American species of the genus. As a consequence, new attemps to study the meiotic pairing of the L. ameghinoi x L. cuneifolia hybrids were undertaken (2n = 3x = 39). Mean number of bivalents and univalents were 9.8 and 19.4, respectively. Since the basic number x is 13, the interpretation that is favored is that L. ameghinoi (2n = 2x = 26) (AA) and L. cuneifolia (2n = 4x = 52) (DDCC) share partially homeologous genomes (A and C) that are involved in most bivalent pairing and this would explain the partial seed fertility of these triploid hybrids (15-19.4 %). L. ameghinoi genome (A) could have retained several parts of an ancestral genome which makes possible at least some pairing with those of the other species and enable it to function as a pivotal genome producing some fertility (from partial to complete) in all the possible hybrid combinations with its three South American congeners. An appendix is included with the captions of the figures of chapter 2 from the book edited by Mabry et al. (1977) which were erroneously omitted in the editorial and printing process. Estudios moleculares recientes nos han inducido a realizar una reinterpretacin de las relaciones genmicas entre Larrea ameghinoi y las otras especies sudamericanas del gnero. Se hicieron nuevos intentos para estudiar el apareamiento de los cromosomas del hbrido L. ameghinoi x L. cuneifolia (2n = 3x = 39). El promedio de bivalentes y univalentes fue de 9.8 y 19.4, respectivamente. Dado que el nmero bsico x es 13 la interpretacin ms razonable es que L. ameghinoi (2n = 2x = 26) (AA) y L. cuneifolia (2n = 4x = 52) (DDCC) comparten genomas parcialmente homelogos (A y C) que forman la mayora de los bivalentes y eso explicara la produccin de semillas (15-19.4 %) de estos hbridos triploides. El genoma de L. ameghinoi (A) podra haber retenido varias partes de un genoma ancestral que hace posible algn apareamiento con aquellos de las otras especies y que lo capacitara para funcionar como un genoma pivote que permite alguna fertilidad (desde parcial a completa) en todas las posibles combinaciones hbridas con sus tres congneres sudamericanos. Se incluye un apndice con las leyendas completas del captulo 2 del libro de Mabry et al. (1977) que fueran omitidas por error en el proceso editorial y de impresin.
23222564|Fifty-one plants of Paspalum distichum L., each from a different place of the Buenos Aires province were studied in order to: a) establish their chromosome numbers; b) assess the phenotypic variability that presents this species; c) determine which percentage of that variability is due to genetic causes; d) evaluate the morphological similarities among plants and to rank them based on those similarities. The existence of hexaploid (2n = 60) and tetraploid (2n = 40) plants was confirmed and, for the first time, the presence of pentaploids (2n = 50) and hiperpentaploids (2n = 52, 54, 57 and 58) was reported in this species. Hexaploids are the most frequent cytotype under the ecological conditions of Buenos Aires province. The analized plants showed a great morphological variability. This variability is due both to the heteroploidy shown by this species and to the existence of genetic differences among individuals of the same cytotype. Applying multivariate analysis to the data obtained, two well differentiated groups of individuals were distinguished, one composed by tetraploid plants and, the other, constituted by pentaploids, hiperpentaploids and hexaploids.
23216477|The existence of Rhynchospora brittonii Gale in Argentina is communicated; R. confinis (Nees) C. B. Clarke is the correct name for the species known here as R. lundii Bck. Both species have been described and illustrated. The affinities between R. brittonii and R. microcarpa Baldw. ex Asa Gray and R. confinis and R. filiformis Vahl have been considered and their special characteristics have been pointed out in two keys. The achenes of each species mentioned above have been studied with the Scanning Electronic Microscope.
23213852|En el rea estudiada se han identificado 35 especies, correspondientes a 15 gneros incluidos en las familias Chroococcaceae, Dermocarpaceae, Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae y Rivulariaceae, siendo la familia de las Oscillatoriaceae la que muestra el mayor nmero de representantes (9 gneros con 26 especies). De los taxones determinados, 20 representan citas nuevas para la Argentina: Anacystis montana (Lightf.) Dr. et Daily (Synechocystis pevalekii Erc.), Dermocarpa leibleiniae (Reinsch) Born. et Thur., Phormidium submembranaceum (Ardis.-Straf.) Gom., Phormidium molle (Ktz.) Gom., Plectonema battersii Gom., Lyngbya nordgaardii Wille, Lyngbya lutea (Ag.) Gomont, Lyngbya confervoides Ag.; Hydrocoleum lyngbyaceum Ktz. var. rupestre Ktz.; Hydrocoleum glutinosum (Ag.) Gom.; Sirocoleus kurzii (Zeller) Gom.; Schizothrix calcicola (Ag.) Gomont; Microcoleus tenerrimus Gomont; Oscillatoria bonnemaisonii Cr.; Oscillatoria corallinae (Ktz.) Gomont; Oscillatoria laetevirens Cr.; Oscillatoria pulchra Lindstedt; Nodularia harveyana (Thw.) Thur.; Calothrix confervicola (Roth) Ag. y Calothrix crustacea Thuret. Adems el gnero Sirocoleus se seala por primera vez para el pas. De las 35 especies descriptas, 17 son tpicas de ambientes marinos: Dermocarpa leibleiniae (Reinsch) Born. et Thur.; D. solitaria Collins et Hervey; Phormidium submembranaceum (Ardis. et Straf.) Gom., Plectonema battersii Gom., Lyngbya confervoides Ag., L. nordgaardii Wille, Hydrocoleum lyngbyaceum Ktz. var. rupestre Ktz., H. glutinosum (Ag.) Gom., Sirocoleus kurzii (Zeller) Gom., Microcoleus tenerrimus Gom., Oscillatoria bonnemaisonii Cr., O. corallinae (Ktz.) Gom., O. nigroviridis Thwaites, O. laetevirens Cr., O. pulchra Lindstedt, Calothrix confervicola (Roth) Ag. y C. crustacea Thuret; 16 son comunes en aguas continentales y marinas: Coccochloris stagnina Sprengel, Anacystis dimidiata (Ktz.) Dr. et Daily, A. montana (Lightf.) Dr. et Daily, Phormidium molle (Ktz.) Gom., Ph. corium (Ag.) Gom., Lyngbya aestuarii (Mert.) Lieb., L. lutea (Ag.) Gom., Schizothrix calcicola (Ag.) Gom., Microcoleus chthonoplastes (Mert.) Thur., Spirulina tenerrima Ktz., Sp. subtilissima Ktz., Sp. subsalsa Oersted, Sp. labyrinthiformis (Menegh.) Gom., Oscillatoria limnetica Lemm, Oscillatoria brevis (Ktz.) Gom. y Nodularia harveyana (Thwaites) Thur., siendo las 2 restantes Microcoleus vaginatus (Vauch) Gom. y Nostoc commune Gomont., propias de biotopos continentales y que slo muy circunstancialmente han sido indicadas en estaciones de influencia marina (Lindstedt, 1943; Chapman, 1956; Umezaki, 1961), como sucede tambin en Puerto Deseado, donde fueron identificadas en una sola localidad (Paso Marsicano). Con respecto a la distribucin geogrfica y como sucede con la mayora de las Cianofceas, un buen nmero de las especies identificadas son cosmopolitas (68,5 %) o subcosmopolitas (20%) y slo un 11,5% son de distribucin ms restringida, aunque es muy probable que la limitacin en la dispersin se deba tan slo al escaso nmero de herborizaciones realizadas. Es de sealar la presencia del gnero Sirocoleus, propio de mares clidos segn Feldmann (1958), si bien la especie S. krzii (Zeller) Gom. no es muy frecuente en Puerto Deseado, dado que se ha identificado en 2 estaciones solamente. En el futuro, cuando completemos nuestro conocimiento de las Cianofceas marinas con el aporte de nuevas colecciones procedentes de diversas localidades (Chubut, Tierra del Fuego, Miramar, que ya tenemos en estudio), se dar un panorama general de la distribucin de las especies a lo largo de nuestras costas, comparndola adems con las floras de algas azules marinas de otras regiones del globo. Thirty five species of marine Cyanophyceae from Puerto Deseado and Cabo Blanco (Prov. Santa Cruz, Argentina) are described. They are distributed among fifteen genera belonging to the following families: Chroococcaceae, Dermocarpaceae, Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae and Rivulariaceae. Oscillatoriaceae is the best represented family, with twenty six species included in nine genera. Twenty species are new records for Argentina as well as the genus Sirocoleus. Most of the thirty five species are cosmopolitan (68,5%) or sub-cosmopolitan (20%) and only 11,5% are more restricted in their geographical distribution. From the ecological point of view and according to the kind of substratum, seven communities were observed: muddy soil-, Salicornia- blue green algae-, lithophytic-, planktonic-, epiphytic- and a very conspicuous one on rocks integrated by Brachidontes purpuratus-Rhodophyceae- Cyanophyceae; each of these is described and the predominant species are given. This paper also includes a list of marine blue green algae recorded until up to date from Argentine coasts (16 species from which only 9 are marine).
23226843|Twelve species of Xylaria are cited as new records from Argentina: Xylaria adscendens, X. allantoidea, X. coccophora, X. cubensis, X. fissilis, X. gracillima, X. luxurians, X. melanura, X. multiplex, X. myosurus, X. kretschmarioidea and X. pseudoapiculata. The last two species are reported for the second time globally. We described for the first time the anamorphic or sterile stromata obtained in culture of X. kretschmarioidea, X. luxurians and X. melanura, and cultures in oatmeal-agar of X. pseudoapiculata. X. torulosa is synonymized under X", coccophora, and new substrates and hosts are reported for most species. Se describen doce especies del gnero Xylaria que se citan por primera vez para la Argentina: Xylaria adscendens, X. allantoidea, X. coccophora, X. cubensis, X. fissilis, X. gracillima, X. luxurians, X. melanura, X. multiplex, X. myosurus, X. kretschmarioidea y X. pseudoapiculata. El registro de las ltimas dos especies es el segundo a nivel mundial. Se describen por primera vez los estromas anamrficos o estriles obtenidos en cultivo de X. kretschmarioidea, X. luxurians y X. melanura, y los cultivos en agar-avena de X. pseudoapiculata. Se sinominiza X. torulosa con X. coccophora, y se citan nuevos sustratos u hospedantes para la mayora de las especies.
23230246|Tillandsia bryoides was sunken into the synonmy of T. tricholepis because all the elements of the lectotype (P. Lorentz 128, BM) belong to the latter species. However, there are many vouchers from different herbaria (some of them cited as reference material in several publications) previously identified as T. bryoides, that in fact correspond to a new species of Tillandsia subgen. Diaphoranthema. This new species has yellow, sessile, solitary flowers and a glabrous floral bract, and grows in central Peru, Bolivia, and central and northwestern Argentina. This paper provides a valid name for this species, an illustration, distribution data, and a discussion of the relationships with its morphologically closest species. Tillandsia bryoides fue incluida en la sinonimia de T. tricholepis porque todos los elementos del lectotipo (P. Lorentz 128, BM) pertenecen a esta ltima especie. Sin embargo, se observaron en el campo, en distintos herbarios y en diversas publicaciones, materiales que fueron previamente considerados como T. bryoides y que en realidad corresponden a una nueva especie de Tillandsia subgen. Diaphoranthema. Esta nueva especie tiene flores solitarias, ssiles, amarillas y una brctea floral glabra, y crece en el centro de Per, en Bolivia, y en el centro y noroeste de Argentina. En este trabajo se establece un nombre vlido para esta especie, junto con una ilustracin detallada, datos de distribucin, y una discusin de sus relaciones con las especies morfolgicamente ms afines.
23218931|Oreobolopsis, gnero nuevo de Cyperaceae (Scirpeae) de Bolivia, Amrica del Sur. En colecciones procedentes de Bolivia encontramos ejemplares con flores hermafroditas provistas de un perigonio de seis tpalos laminares, dispuestos en dos ciclos de tres tpalos cada uno, alternos entre s. Juzgamos que se trata de un gnero nuevo de Cyperaceae al que llamamos Oreobolopsis por su semejanza vegetativa con Oreobolus (Cladieae). Por sus glumas espiraladas con una flor bisexual en su axila pertenece a la tribu Scirpeae. Se discuten sus relaciones intergenricas y se proporciona una clave para distinguirlo de Hellmuthia, Schoenoides, Oreobolus, Schoenoplectus y Fuirena. Se describe y se ilustra su nica especie, Oreobolopsis tepalifera.
23222568|Argentinean members of five Solanaceae tribes, 2 of the subfam. Solanoideae (Solaneae and Jaboroseae) and 3 of the subfam. Cestroideae (Cestreae, Nicotianeae and Salpiglossideae) are studied in their meiotic chromosomes. A total of 166 accessions from 65 species and 14 genera are examined. Among them, the chromosome numbers of 27 species are reported for the first time. A statistical analysis of the chromosome behavior at diakinesis-metaphase I is made on 11 species from 8 sections and 4 subgenera of Solanum L. Some meiotic irregularities are detected in 29 specimens from 19 species and 7 genera. Furthermore, polyploids were observed in several Solanum sect. Lathyrocarpum (G. Don) Walp. species. In S. elaeagnifolium Cav., an euploid series is described (n = 12, 24, 36). The data suggest that polyploidy would have been an important event in the evolution of some species of the subgen. Leptostemonum (Dun.) Bitt. A great difference in chromosome size is found between the members of Solanum sect. Cyphomandropsis Bitt. and the ones of the other sections of this genus. The results are discussed in respect to the unclear delimitation between Solanum and Cyphomandra Sendt.
23211708|Toda la vida de las plantas se compone del conjunto de procesos regularmente iterados. En determinados lapsos se efecta la divisin de las clulas. Las hojas nuevas aparecen con repeticin regular particular para cada especie y vinculada con la rtmica de la divisin celular. La formacin de las flores y el proceso de floracin se determinan por la rtmica de formacin de las hojas. A esta misma rtmica est subordinada la formacin de ramas e inflorescencias. Introduciendo a la botnica la idea de la iteracin regular de procesos, el autor establece la necesidad de agregar una cuarta coordenada: la del tiempo para la comprensin de la generacin de formas orgnicas espaciales expresadas en tres coordenadas. Cada especie tiene su rtmica propia, por lo que se deduce la posibilidad de la clasificacin natural de las plantas fundndose en la nueva base que se presta a rigurosas interpretaciones matemticas y que relaciona la formacin de formas orgnicas con la coincidencia armnica de procesos repetidos rtmicamente.
23215541|From a study of Lake Puelo (Province of Chubut, Argentina) a high level cordilleran lake, the diatoms of the Centricae and Pennatae, including 23 genera and 54 species, varieties and forms are herein described. All are recorded from this area for the first time, and Stephanodiscus astraea var. intermedia, Synedra ulna var. andina y Gomphonema helveticum are first records for the Argentine. All taxa are described and illustrated with drawings or photomicrographs, and keys for the determination of orders, families, genera and species (and in some cases varieties) are included. Also notes on the habitat of the taxa, the material studied, its distribution within the Argentine and their synonymy, are given. Of all the taxa described, 40 are typically associated with fresh-water. Diatoma elongatum, Fragilaria construens y Nitzschia frustulum however, are known from both fresh and brackish waters. Synedra ulna, Gomphonema constrictum, Fragilaria construens var. venter, Fragilaria pinnata, Amphipleura pellucida, Surirella splendida, Surirella minuta, Epithemia zebra, Epithemia sorex, Gomphonema longiceps var. subclavata and Cymbella cistula are known from fresh-water and very weakly brackish waters. The majority of the organisms described are planctonic; a few wich are benthonic or epiphytic, are also mentioned.
23227999|Verbena and Glandularia are two genera of Verbenaceae closely related by their morphology. In this work, six species of Verbena from southern Brazil, Uruguay and Chile are transferred to Glandularia: G. catharinae, G. corymbosa, G. dusenii, G. gynobasis, G. hatschbachii and G. jordanensis, based on several typical Glandularia features, such as those related to habit, style length, inflorescence types and position of teeth on the fructiferous calyx, among others. Descriptions, illustrations and a distribution map are also provided. Verbena y Glandularia son dos gneros de Verbenaceae morfolgicamente afines. En este trabajo se transfieren seis especies del gnero Verbena a Glandularia: G. catharinae, G. corymbosa, G. dusenii, G. gynobasis, G. hatschbachii y G. jordanensis, sobre la base de caracteres tpicos de Glandularia, como los relacionados con el hbito, la longitud del estilo, el tipo de inflorescencia y la posicin de los dientes del cliz fructfero, entre otros. Estas seis especies crecen en el sur de Brasil, Uruguay y Chile. Se incluyen descripciones, ilustraciones y un mapa de distribucin.
23225140|Cedrela is represented in Argentina by 5 taxa. A new species, Cedrela saltensis, is described and illustrated. A key, descriptions, synonymy, geographical distribution and illustrations of the Argentinian species are also provided. El gnero Cedrela est representado en la Argentina por 5 especies. Se describe e ilustra una nueva entidad, Cedrela saltensis, aportndose adems descripciones, sinnimos, datos de distribucin geogrfica, ilustraciones y una clave para diferenciar las especies presentes en la Argentina.
23223261|The presence of Thelypteris regnelliana (C. Chr.) Ponce and T. sanctae-catharinae (Rosenst.) Ponce, from NE of Misiones, Argentina, is reported for the first time. Morphological differences with its related taxa, geographic range and ecological characteristics are also given.
23222998|Nectar chemical composition and nectary anatomy are studied in two Argentine species of Mutisieae: Hyaloseris rubicunda Griseb. and Barnadesia odorata Griseb. The capitulum of H. rubicunda has reddish bracts and it is composed of 5-6 perfect, red-orange, nectariferous flowers. On the other hand, B. odorata capitulum has greenish bracts and white, perfect, dimorphic flowers; only the 3-central flowers are nectariferous while the several peripheral ones do not have nectaries. Nectar sugar composition is rich in hexose in B. odorata and rich in sucrose in H. rubicunda. Alkaloids, phenols, reducing acids, lipids and amino acids were not detected in any sample. In both species, the nectary is related to the upper portion of the ovary. Its base is supplied with the ovarian vascular bundles. The upper nectary portion surrounds the style base and shows many stomata and has no special vascular bundles. Hummingbirds Sappho sparganura (Lesson) and Chlorostilbon aureoventris (D' Orbigny et Lafresnaye) were seen visiting the capitula of H. rubicunda in the studied population. The white flowers of B. odorata produce a weak, pleasant scent during evening hours and would be pollinated by sphingids. The data are compared and discussed considering the flower biotypes of the studied species.
23223859|Variation of the plant diversity of five remnants of secondary wet forest was studied at different successional stages in the Cordillera Central of the Colombian Andes, at 750-1100 m. Several transects were used (50 m  2 m) for the analysis, and the total area analyzed was 2000 m. Only individuals with a dbh  2.54 cm were considered. Structural analysis revealed 837 individuals belonging to 145 species distributed among 60 families. The richest families were Leguminosae (14 species), Melastomataceae (12), Rubiaceae (10), and Arecaceae, Clusiaceae and Lauraceae (7 species each). Species-rich genera were Miconia (7 species) and Inga (6 species). About 74% of the species were represented by less than three individuals, showing a very homogenous distribution. Pielou's Evenness Index J' showed values close to 1. Simpson's Index D' revealed low dominance, contrary to what is expected for secondary forests. Floristic similarity was estimated based on Czekanowski's Index, which showed values lower than 16% between remnants. This demostrates great variation in the floristic composition of the study area. Linear regression analysis showed no relationships between age of the remnants and diversity, species number, evenness, and dominance. This suggests that the most advanced successional stages are not necessarily more diverse than the younger ones. A balance of the number of species is reached early in the successional process in the area investigated. However, the remnants are in a taxonomically unstable condition, as was demonstrated by the strong variation in the floristic composition among remnants. This study demonstrates that there is a balance between local inmigration and extinction. Se estudi la variacin de la diversidad florstica en cinco remanentes de diferentes estadios sucesionales en un bosque hmedo secundario de la cordillera Central de los Andes colombianos, localizado a una altura de 750-1100 m s.m. Se emplearon transectas de 50 m  2 m, siendo el rea total analizada de 2000 m. Slo fueron considerados los individuos con un DAP  2,54 cm. Los anlisis estructurales revelaron la existencia de 837 individuos pertenecientes a 145 especies, distribuidas en 60 familias. Las familias ms diversas fueron Leguminosae (14 especies), Melastomataceae (12), Rubiaceae (10) y Arecaceae, Clusiaceae y Lauraceae con 7 especies cada una. Los gneros ms ricos fueron Miconia (7 especies) e Inga (6 especies). Cerca del 74% de las especies estuvieron representadas por menos de tres individuos, mostrando una distribucin muy homognea. El ndice de equidad de Pielou mostr valores cercanos a uno, mientras que el ndice de Simpson revel baja dominancia, contrario a lo que se espera para bosques secundarios. La similitud florstica se estim a partir del ndice de Czekanowski, el cual arroj valores inferiores al 16% entre remanentes. Esto demuestra la gran variacin en la composicin florstica del rea estudiada. Los anlisis de regresin lineal mostraron que no haba relacin entre la edad de los remanentes y la diversidad, el nmero de especies, la equidad y la dominancia de las especies. Esto sugiere que los estadios sucesionales ms avanzados no son necesariamente ms diversos que los estadios ms jvenes. En el rea de estudio, el equilibrio del nmero de especies es alcanzado tempranamente en el proceso sucesional. Sin embargo, los remanentes se encuentran en desequilibrio taxonmico, lo que fue demostrado con la fuerte variacin en la composicin florstica entre remanentes. Este estudio demuestra que hay un equilibrio entre extincin e inmigracin locales.
23213888|The author describes two species of the genus Chara: Chara sejuncta A. Br. and C. hydropitys Reich. They were found by A. Burkart in shallow camp waters (baados or esteros) in Corrientes province, northeastern Argentina. Both are new for the Argentine flora.
23223910|The series Laeves Bacigalupo & E. L. Cabral of the genus Borreria is here revised. Eight species are recognized, keyed out, described and illustrated. Borreria paraensis E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo is a new species from Par and Bahia (Brazil). Se analizan las ocho especies que representan la series Laeves del gnero Borreria. Se acompaa una clave y cada especie es descripta e ilustrada. Borreria paraensis E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo es una especie nueva de Par y Bahia (Brazil).
darwiniana.3.2.216|Three species of non lichenized Dothideomycetes (Ascomycota) found growing on bark of native trees from the Andean Patagonian forests of Argentina are described.
23223223|Twenty-four honey samples have been studied by ligth and scanning electron microscopy from twenty-two localities of the northwest of Corrientes; 39 morphological types were identified. The results show that 9 samples had a mixed floral origin and 15 were monofloral, mainly from Astronium balansae Engl. or Eucalyptus sp. Others frequent taxa are Sapium haematospermum Muell. Arg., Eryngium sp. and Acicarpha tribuloides Juss.; all of them allow to characterize this region. The nectar from these flowers is the main source in the area.
23215604|A taxonomic revision of the Argentine and Uruguayan species of the genus Gunnera has been made. A key for the identification of species are given. All species have been illustrated and a distribution map is given.
23222970|Several species of soil fungi recorded for the first time for Argentina are described and illustrated, namely: Chaetasbolisia erysiphoides (Griff. & Maubl.) Speg.; Cylindrocarpon ianthothele Wollenw. var. majus Wollenw.; Dichotomophtora portulacae Mehrlich & Fitzpatrick ex Ellis; Phialocephala humicola Jong & Davis; Phialophora fastigiata (Lagerberg & Melin) Conant; Pseudeurotium zonatum van Beyma; Scolecobasidium constrictum Abbott; Stephanosporium cereale (Thm.) Swart and Talaromyces rotundus (Raper & Fennell) Benjamin. A new species of Hyphomycetes namely: Allescheriella microspora sp. nov. and a new variety: Zalerion varia Anastasiou var. terrestris var. nov. are proposed.
23230236|Old and new morphological characters confirm that Waltheria pyrolifolia is abundantly distinct from W. indica s.l., not its synonym, nor teratological material of it. The first illustrations of W. pyrolifolia are presented. It is here IUCN global category assessed as critically endangered, tagged possibly extinct. The earliest lectotypifications of W. indica and W. americana, realized by Gillis in 1974, are clarified. Caracteres morfolgicos viejos y nuevos confirman que Waltheria pyrolifolia es una especie distinta, y no un sinnimo o material teratolgico de W. indica. Se presentan por primera vez ilustraciones de W. pyrolifolia. Su categora de conservacin a nivel global es evaluada como en peligro crtico de extincin, posiblemente extinguida. Se esclarece que las lectotipificaciones ms antiguas para W. indica y para W. americana fueron realizadas por Gillis en 1974.
23215051|Peridinium balechii n. sp. a new marine member of Dinophyceae, is described and compared with related species. The general tabulation with special reference to the sulcal region is detailed. The appearance of this species at Deseado Estuary (type locality Prov. Santa Cruz, Argentina) was observed at November, December and January.
23230223|Continuing our research in Lippia and Lantana, the following novelties are proposed: Lantana bocainiensis as a new combination, Lantana brachypoda and L. venturii are listed as synonyms of Lippia grisebachiana, and Lantana clarazii is considered a synonym of Junellia spatulatha. var. spathulata. Lectotypes are designated for the following taxa: Lippia lantanifolia, Lantana brachypoda and Lippia turbinata. Lantana cummingiana and Lantana hyptoides are treated as dubious taxa within this genus. Como continuacin de nuestros estudios previos realizados en los gneros Lippia y Lantana, se proponen las siguientes novedades: Lantana bocainiensis, como una nueva combinacin; se establecen nuevos sinnimos, Lantana brachypoda y Lantana ventura, para Lippia grisebachiana: y un nuevo sinnimo, Lantana clarazii, para Junellia spatulatha var. spathulata. Se designan lectotipos para los siguientes taxones: Lippia lantanifolia, Lantana brachypoda y Lippia turbinata. Se consideran taxones dudosos a Lantana cummingiana y Lantana hyptoides.
23215706|A new species Achaetomiella fusispora is studied in the present paper. It is characterized by an ovoid perithecium with abundant, slender and light hairs, club - shaped to ellipsoidal asci and dark olive-brown fusiform ascospores with a germ pore at both ends. Besides, two of these characters are added to the generic description. A key of the three known species is appended.
23213878|The author describes two new monotypic genera of Malvaceae, tribe Malveae: Dirhamphis and Hochreutinera. Dirhamphis balansae nov. sp. grows in Paraguay and Bolivia and Hochreutinera hasslerana (Hochr.) nov. comb. grows in Paraguay and northern Argentina. The oustanding character of these genera is the presence of two spines at the base of the mature carpel, which relates both of them to Briquetia Hochr., with homologous curved spines or hooks. These three genera are easily diferentiated by the number and position of the ovules. The presence of an endoglossum in the mericarps proves that Dirhamphis and Hochreutinera are also related to Pseudabutilon R. E. Fries.
23218072|This paper deals with the palynological study of the Argentine representatives of the genus Cathormion (Benth.) Hassk, C. polyanthum (A. Spreng.) Burk. and C. polycephalum (Gris.) Burk., which were placed in the Secc. Cryptarthra by A. Burkart in 1964. As it is common in Mimosoideae, the dispersal unit is the poliade. The authoress has found in both species poliades formed by 16 or 28-32 monades, either in the same or different specimens. The sculpture of the exine at the distal face of the central monades is areolate or fosulate; at the distal face of lateral monades is fosulate to smooth, sometimes areolate. The palynological characters added to some morphological features do not furnish enough differences to distinguish both entities as different species.
23222537|A new species of Cyperus (Cyperaceae) from Misiones, Argentina. Cyperus burkartii nov. sp. is described and illustrated; an anatomical description is also given. It is a very distinct species because of its cancellate achenes, longitudinally striate with transverse rectangular epidermal cells. This is a rare character among the species of Cyperus, shared with C. mirus C. B. Clarke, an Australian species of the section Graciles. C. burkartii belongs to section Diffusi and is related to C. friburgensis Bck., a South American species with smooth achenes and pedicellate spikelets.
23215047|Pollen grains of Argentine Leguminosae. III. Mimosoideae, Tribe Piptadenieae and Mimozygantheae. The pollen grains of the Argentine species of the tribe Piptadenieae occur in apparently similar poliads. Nevertheless it is possible to differenciate them in the whole of characters for each species. The comparative table and a key to recognise the species, corroborate the distinctive characters. The pollen grains of the tribe Mimozygantheae, represented by one species, have similar characters with the pollen grains of the Argentine representatives of tribe Adenanthereae.
23218943|The occurrence of crystals in the hairs of several species of Nassauvia (Compositae). Calcium oxalate crystals frequently prismatic, but also as rhomboedral and lenticular types, were observed in the lumen of the leaf hairs of 8 Argentine species of Nassauvia: N. fuegiana, N. axillaris, N. aculeata, N. uniflora, N. darwinii, N. chubutensis, N. glomerulosa and N. ulicina. These crystalliferous hairs, described here for the first time for the genus, are non glandular, 3-10 cells long, with 2-3 short basal cells, intermediate ones longer and a terminal pointed cell. The transverse walls, sometimes very oblique, possess conspicuous pit pairs, looking like articulations, being therefore denominated here oblique-septate articulated hairs. The crystals, isolated or in groups, are mainly located near the transverse-oblique walls. As these crystals are particularly abundant in the xerophilous species of Nassauvia, a relationship between their occurrence and the habit of the plant was suggested. A brief discussion on the existence, mentioned by other authors, of this uncommon character in the Compositae is also given, as well as a short reference on the probable function accomplished by the crystals in the plant metabolism.
23218078|Se describe el cariotipo volumen nuclear y contenido de ADN en 7 especies afines de Oxalis con 2n = 10 cromosomas y se relacionan estos datos con las distintas formas biolgicas observadas en las mismas. O. refracta St. Hil. y O. niederleinii Knuth tienen un cariotipo casi totalmente asimtrico con 2n = 10 (2m + 8t) y son anuales. O. hepatica Norlind con 2n = 10 (2m + 2sm + 4st + 2t) y O. sarmentosa Zucc. con 2n = 10 (2m + 4sm + 4t) tienen el cariotipo ms simtrico y son perennes con tallo areo estolonfero. O. eriocarpa D.C. con 2n = 10 (4m + 2smm + 2sm + 2st), O. praetexta Prog. 2n = 10 (4m + 4sm + 2st) y Oxalis sp. 2n = 10 (4m + 4sm + 2st) tienen cariotipos ms simtricos que las cuatro especies descriptas ms arriba, las tres son perennes y tienen un tallo subterraneo leoso. El contenido de ADN se incrementa con la simetra del cariotipo. Se considera que aquellas especies anuales con menos contenido de ADN y cariotipo ms asimtrico (O. refracta y O. niederleinii) son probablemente ms avanzadas que el resto de las especies perennes. Se discute tambin la correlacin encontrada entre el contenido de ADN y el volumen nuclear. The karyotype, nuclear volume and DNA content of 7 allied species of Oxalis were analyzed. In spite of having 2n = 10 large chromosomes they were classified, according to their variation of the vegetative morphology, in different sections of the genus. However, the cytological data and the morphology of the inflorescence and fruit suggest that the 7 entities are probably taxonomically related. On the other hand, a probable relationship between the vegetative characteristics and the variation of karyotype symmetry in these species was found. O. refracta St. Hil. and O. niederleinii Knuth possess an asymmetrical karyotype with 2n = 10 (2m + 8t); they are both annuals. O. hepatica Norlind with 2n = 10 (2m + 2sm + 4st + 2t) and O. sarmentosa Zucc, with 2n = 10 (2m + 4sm + 4t) are perennials. O. eriocarpa D.C. 2n = 0 (4m + 2smm + 2sm + 2st) O. praetexta Prog. 2n = 10 (4m + 4sm + 2st) and O. sp. 2n = 10 (4m + 4sm + 2st) have the most symmetrical karyotypes of the 7 species studied, because they have only one pair of subtelocentrics. The 3 entities are parennials. The variation in the symmetry of the karyotype is probably related to the variation found in DNA content. The latter ranged from 9.25 pg in O. refracta to 15.99 pg in O. eriocarpa and the differences in DNA amount between species are significant. Moreover the correlation between DNA content and the mean of the centromeric index, as a relative value of the karyotype symmetry, is positive and highly significant. This shows that the increase in DNA amount is probably related to the symmetry of the karyotypes. The relationships between the cytological data and the life cycle in these species suggests that the two annual species with less DNA content and asymmetrical karyotypes (O. refracta and O. niederleinii) are probably more advanced than the other 5 perennial species. Also the positive and significant correlation found between the DNA content and nuclear volume is discussed.
23612317|The biosiliceous microfossil record has a high preservation degree in different natural and cultural contexts. For that reason, the study of phytoliths and other siliceous microremains may contribute both to infer environmental conditions of local plant communities that surrounded an archaeological site, and to identify plant species with anthropic use. We analized phytoliths and other siliceous microremains from a profile of Tres Cerros 1 archaeological site (LTC1, Las Moras Island, Victoria Department, Entre Ros, Argentina) and other collected samples from particular features observed during excavation of the site. The bio-siliceous microfossil analysis revealed elements related to both wild plant resources from the present phytogeographic unit, and cultural plant management of species related to Arecaceae, Cucurbitaceae, and Poaceae (subfamilies Maideae and Oryzoideae). The bio-siliceous microfossil record of the LTC1 profile has a clear change between baseline and the top of the anthropic depositional unit, which can be correlated with different activities during the construction process of the mound, which took place between ca. 1000 - 500 years 14C BP. El registro de microfsiles biosilceos posee un alto grado de preservacin en distintos contextos naturales y culturales. Por esta razn, el estudio de los fitolitos y otros microrrestos biosilceos puede contribuir a determinar las condiciones ambientales de las communidades vegetales que rodearon un sitio arqueolgico, as como tambin identificar especies vegetales domesticadas. En esta contribucin se realiz el anlisis de fitolitos en el marco de otros bioindicadores de los depsitos superiores de la secuencia sedimentaria antrpica del sitio Los Tres Cerros 1 (LTC1, isla Las Moras, Departamento Victoria, Entre Ros, Argentina). Los anlisis desarrollados permitieron identificar morfotipos silceos relacionados con la presencia de vegetales silvestres que caracterizan a la unidad fitogeogrfica actual del rea de emplazamiento, y morfotipos silceos asignables a recursos vegetales de inters cultural, pertenecientes a las familias Arecaceae, Cucurbitaceae, y Poaceae (subfamilias Maideae y Oryzoideae). El registro de microfsiles biosilceos del perfil del sitio LTC1 tiene un cambio neto que puede ser correlacionado con diferentes actividades culturales desempeadas durante el proceso de construccin del montculo, que tuvo lugar durante ca.1000 - 500 aos 14C AP.
23213828|En la presente revisin del gnero de orqudeas sudamericano, Chloraea, se consideran vlidas 46 especies y 1 variedad. Dos de las especies, C. elegans y C. septentrionalis, se describen por primera vez y se hace la nueva combinacin. C. disoides var. picta, Se da una clave para identificar las especies basada en caracteres florales, especialmente los de los ptalos y el labelo. Han sido dibujadas todas las especies y su distribucin est indicada en una serie de mapas. Estos sealan que, con excepcin de 2 especies Chloraea bella y Chloraea memebranacea de la regin oriental, la distribucin del gnero es casi endmica de los Andes, encontrndose las especies desde el norte del Per hasta la Tierra del Fuego. In the present revision of the Southamerican genus Chloraea (Orchidaceae) 46 species and 1 variety are considered valid. Two species, C. elegans and C. septentrionalis, are described as new and the new combination C. disoides var. picta, is proposed. A key based on floral features, specially those of the petals and the labellum, is given for their identification. All the species have been drawn and their distribution indicated on a series of maps. These show that, with the exception of 2 species Chloraea bella and Chloraea membranacea of the oriental zone the distribution of the genus is wholy Andean, ranging from northern Per to Tierra del Fuego.
23211703|Se observa que la estructura anatmica de las especies filas del gnero Cassia converge con la de otras plantas filas, adaptadas a climas secos, diferencindose de las dems especies de Cassia. Es caracterstica la presencia de una epidermis gruesa, cutinizada, de una hipodermis desarrollada, parnquima cortical dividido en dos zonas (la exterior en palizada) separadas por fascculos de fibras esclerenquimticas, unidos o no entre s por escleritos; en varias especies se observa la presencia de pigmento rojo en la hipodermis y en el mesfilo; la presencia y distribucin de drusas y maclas de oxalato de calcio vara. En base a todos estos caracteres es posible dar una clave para la identificacin de las diferentes especies y variedades.
23215560|In the present paper the karyotypes of four diploids and one tetraploid species of Hippeastrum (Amaryllidaceae) are described. The nomenclature used for chromosome morphology, is that proposed by Levan et al. (1964): m chromosome (Centromeric index Ci = short arm  100/total chromosome length = 50-37.5), sm chromosome (Ci = 37.5-25) and st chromosome (Ci = 25-12.5). The nomenclature proposed by Battaglia (1955), for the description of chromosomes with satellite was used. The results obtained are: H. argentinum (Pax) Hunz.: 2n = 22, 8 m + 8 sm + 6 st; H. rutilum (Lam.) Herb.: 2n = 22, 8 m + 8 sm + 6 st; H. agliae (Cast.) Hunz. et Coc.: 2n = 22, 8 m + 8 sm + 6 st, in these three karyotypes the pair st n 10 has a terminal microsatellite in the short arm (Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4). H. vittatum (L'Herit.) Herb.: 2n = 22, 8 m + 6 m + 8 st, the pair st n 11 has a terminal microsatellite in the short arm (Figs. 2, 4). H. petiolatum Pax: 2n = 44, 16 m + 16 sm + 12 st. All the karyotypes are bimodal because m chromosomes are shorter than sm and st chromosomes (Figs. 1, 2). In general, the species studied here had the same basic karyotype (4 m + 4sm + 3 st), only H. vittatum possesses a derived karyotype involving small changes. This basic karyotype is common to the eight species in which the karyotype has been studied. Because of this, we can consider this karyotype as fundamental in Hippeastrum. In a single individual of H. argentinum a heteromorphic pair of chromosomes was found. So far 25 species of the genus have been studied cytologically, 21 of these have only diploid level. The scarcity of polyploidy in the genus (16 %) might be a consequence of the absence of chromosome repatterning in a primary speciation (Cuadros 1, 2). Results of other authors concerning cytological data are also discussed.
23213855|This paper deals with taxonomic studies on the species of Tripogandra in Argentina, which are: T. radiata (Clarke) Bacig., T. elongata (G. F. W. Meyer) Woodson f. elongata and f. diuretica (Mart.) Standl. et Steyerm., T. disgrega (Kunth) Woodson and T. multiflora f. parviflora (R. et P.) nov. comb., based on Tradescantia parviflora R. et P. The last two species and T. elongata f. diuretica are new records for the Argentinian flora. They grow in the north and the centre of our country arriving to the shores of the Ro de la Plata. Each species is described and illustrated.
23217316|Chromosome studies in Phytolacca dioica, P. tetramera and P. bogotensis (Phytolaccaceae). Chromosome studies and observations were made on Phytolacca dioica, P. tetramera and P. bogotensis. The chromosome number of the first species is confirmed, the last two are reported for the first time. P. dioica is a tetraploid (2n = 36) with very small somatic chromosomes (0.5 - 1.4 m). P. bogotensis is also a tetraploid (2n = 36) with normal meiosis behaviour forming 18 bivalents. The size of its somatic chromosomes varies between 1 to 1.8 m. The karyotype is composed by 14 m - sm and 4 st - t chromosomes. There is a terminal satellite in the short arm of a st - t chromosome. P. tetramera is an octoploid (n= 36) and its meiosis shows the formation of up to 5 quadrivalents. It has larger chromosomes than P. dioica, which belongs also to the same subgenus and section.
23213790|The author describes two new species of Achlya (Phycomycetes-Saprolegniales), A. bonariensis sp. n. and A. echinulata sp. n. These fungi were isolated in July 1966 from two artificial lakes in the Palermo-park of the city of Buenos Aires, Argentina, and cultivated in the laboratory on Cannabis sativa seed. A. bonariensis has affinity with A. mucronata Ziegl. from Florida, U.S.A., and A. echinulata with A. pseudoradiosa Rog. et Benke, from Brazil. Latin diagnosis and descriptions are given; the differences with the related species, in the Spanish text.
23223255|Glyceria saltensis Sulekic & Rgolo sp. nov. from Argentina is described and illustrated. A dichotomic key and some remarks about closely related species of South America are included.
23222991|Chromosome numbers and observations on meiotic chromosome behavior of 26 taxa of South American Paniceae are given. Of these 18 are new counts including the monotypic genera Plagiantha and Tatianyx. The taxa that were studied are: Axonopus anceps (n = 30), A. pressus (n = ca. 20), A. siccus (n = 10), Digitaria sacchariflora (n = 18), Panicum assurgens (n = 9), P. cabrerae (n = 9), P. cipoense (n = 20), P. cyanescens (n = 18), P. euprepes (n = 20), P. aff. heliophilum (n = ca. 30), P. molinoides (n = 20), P. penicillatum (n = ca. 27), P. poliophyllum (n = 20), P. stenophyllum (n = 10), P. wettsteinii (n = 9), Paspalum coryphaeum (n = 10), P. ligulare (n = ca. 20), P. millegrana (n = 20), P. minarum (n = 20), P. pumilum (n = 10), P. scutatum (n = 10), Plagiantha tenella (n = 10), Streptostachys asperifolia (n = 10), Tatianyx arnacites (n = ca. 30), Urochloa sp. (n = ca. 14), and Urochloa acuminata (n = 13). The count given for Panicum cyanescens is different from the previously reported. Morphological as well as taxonomic considerations are given about the relationships of some of these taxa.
23215700|Se realiz un estudio de los caracteres epidrmicos e histologa de los fololos de tres especies de Adesmia, que habitan regiones ridas de: Patagonia austral y Tierra del Fuego, en Argentina y zona central de Chile. Desde el punto de vista ecolgico, A. salicornioides es la que presenta mayor nmero de caracteres xeromrficos. A. balsamica y A. resinosa poseen caractersticas epidrmicas y foliolares semejantes entre s y ambas presentan solamente algunos de los caracteres considerados como ndices de xeromorfismo. La presencia de una capa de cutina discontinua entre la epidermis y el mesfilo, encontrada en estas especies, puede considerarse como carcter relacionado con hbitats ridos. A study of the epidermal characters and histology of the leaflets of 3 species of Adesmia (Leguminosae) was carried out. These species belong to the arid regions of Southern Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego in Argentina and to the central zone of Chile. From an ecological point of view, A. salicornioides presents more xeromorphic characters than the other two species. A. balsamica and A. resinosa are very similar to each other in their epidermic and leaflets characters, and only present some of the features which are considered xeromorphic. The presence of a discontinuous cutine layer between the epidermis and mesophyll founded in this species of Adesmia is probably related to arid habitats.
23223208|In this note, Phytolacca rivinoides Kunth et Bouch (Phytolaccaceae) is described and illustrated, showing the characters useful for its identification. The genus is represented in Argentina for 5 species, one of them introduced.
23212953|Se hace una revisin taxonmica de las especies argentinas de Frankeniaceae, las que quedan agrupadas en dos gneros: Frankenia con 6 especies y Anthobryum con dos especies. El gnero Niederleinia es sinonimizado con Frankenia. Se han confeccionado claves para la diferenciacin de los gneros y las especies. Todas las especies descritas han sido ilustradas y se ha agregado un mapa de distribucin geogrfica de las mismas. A taxonomic revisin of the Argentine Frankeniaceae has been made; the species belong to two genera: Frankenia with six species and Anthobryum with two species. The genus Niederleinia has been sinonimized with Frankenia. Keys for the identification of genera and species are given. All species have been illustrated and a distribution map for the sames is given. Eine Revision der argentinischen Frankeniaceae hat ergeben, dass die lokalen Arten zwei Gattungen angehren: Frankenia mit sechs und Anthobryum mit zwei Arten. Die Gattung Niederleinia ist in Frankenia eingeschloseen worden. Alle Arten sind illustriert worden, es wird eine Verbreitungs Karte derselben gegeben, sowie ein Bestimmungsschlssel fr Gattungen und Arten ausgearbeitet.
23215548|Se ha realizado un estudio morfolgico y anatmico de P. tomentella Wedd. que constituye un tpico representante de la vegetacin de la Puna de Jujuy (NW de la Argentina) y que vive entre los 3600 y 4700 m s.m., como nica forma arbrea a esta altitud. La estructura interna de los rganos de P. tomentella presenta una serie de caracteres xeromorfos. Los tallos y las races se hallan recubiertos por una polidermis. El floema presenta elementos de tubo criboso con las placas compuestas. El xilema tiene elementos de conduccin de dimetro grande y tiende a ser difuso. La comparacin efectuada entre P. tomentella y P. australis de la Prov. de Crdoba, especie ms austral, muestra que existen muchas similitudes entre ambas especies. The present paper is a morphological and anatomical study of P. tomentella a representative of the vegetation of the Puna (highlands of NWestern Argentina). P. tomentella presents some xeromorphic structures in the leaves, a polyderme in stems and root, xylem with large elements tending to be diffuse. The brief comparative study made among the main structures of the mentioned species and P. australis from Crdoba mountains, showed many similarities between them.
23222545|A new species of Helianthus (Compositae) for the Argentine flora. Helianthus laetiflorus Pers., a new species for Argentine, is cited. The morphology, chromosome number, seed set and pollen viability of natural populations of this species are described.
23218128|A revision of the genus Chuquiraga (Compositae-Mutisieae). The genus Chuquiraga as here treated comprises 19 species of xerophyllous bushes of South America; the history and systematic relationships within the genus and with other genera,and the morphology, geographical distribution and economic importance of the species are discussed. The taxonomic treatment includes a description of the genus, keys to the sections, series and species, and a list of excluded names. All the taxa are described and illustrated and distribution maps are given. In many cases, nomenclatural problems, intraspecific variability and affinities between the species are also analyzed. In this revision a new infrageneric classification is proposed, the genus being divided into two sections: Acanthophylla nov. sect., and Sect. Chuquiraga with two series-Parviflorae nov. ser. and Ser. Chuquiraga. Other taxonomical novelties are: Two new subspecies are described (Ch. spinosa Less. subsp. australis and subsp. huamanpinta) and three changes of status are proposed (Ch. spinosa subsp. rotundifolia (Weddell) nov. stat., Ch. ulicina subsp. acicularis (Don) nov. stat. and Ch. erinacea subsp. hystrix (Don) nov. stat.). The name Ch. parviflora (Gris.) Hieron., which had been reduced to synonymy of Ch. oppositifolia Don, is rehabilitated, and the morphological and geographical differences between both species are discussed. A new epithet is proposed (Ch. morenonis (O. Ktze) nov. stat.) for Ch. argentea (Speg.) Speg., name invalidated by an earlier homonym. The name Ch. spinosa (Ruiz et Pav.) Don, erroneously used to designate the taxon here described as Ch. spinosa Less. subsp. huamanpinta, is excluded form the genus. The following names are reduced to synonymy for the first time: Ch. erinacea f. pulvinata Cabrera; Ch. incana Phil.; Ch. insignis var. armata Weddell; Ch. johnstonii Tovar; Ch. jussieui var. lancifolia (H. et B.) Koster; Ch. kingii Ball; Ch. oppositifolia var. macrantha Gay; Ch. oppositifolia var. macrocephala Weddell; Ch. pseudoruscifolia Muschler; Ch. revoluta Field et Gardn; Ch. ulicina var. incana (Phil.) Johnston.
23216494|A revisin of Argentine species of Hoffmannseggia has been made. A key for the identification, descriptions, observations and illustrations of the species are given. Two new taxa are communicated: H. yaviensis nov. sp. and H. doelli Phil. subsp. argentina nov. subsp. Often there are difficulties in the delimitation of H. erecta and H. trifoliata. H. prostrata (=H. gracilis) is excluded from Argentina. H. nana is considered as a possible synonym of H. erecta.
23230194|The first record of Zanthoxylum armatum var. armatum as a naturalized species for the argentinian flora is reported for Crdoba province. We include a description, illustration, distribution map, ecological data and differences with similar taxa. Se cita por primera vez a Zanthoxylum armatum var. armatum como especie asilvestrada para la flora argentina, en la provincia de Crdoba. Se presenta una descripcin sobre la base de los ejemplares examinados, ilustraciones, mapa de distribucin y observaciones ecolgicas, como as tambin las diferencias con taxones similares.
23226850|Ten members of the tribe Cariceae (Cyperaceae) occur on the Juan Fernndez Archipelago: four species of Carex and six of Uncinia. Eight of the ten species occur on Alejandro Selkirk Island (= Masafuera; 50 km2) while four are known from Robinson Crusoe Island (= Masatierra; 48 km2). Carex fernandezensis, C. stuessyi, Uncinia aspericaulis, and U. macloviformis are newly described from the archipelago and all are endemic to the islands. Only two species, Carex berteroniana and Uncinia douglasii, both endemics, are of frequent occurrence and each occurs on both islands. Another endemic, Uncinia costata, is known only from the type locality on Alejandro Selkirk. The three remaining species, Uncinia phleoides, U. tenuis, and Carex phalaroides, the last here reported for the first time from the archipelago, also occur on the South American mainland. Lectotypes are chosen for the names Uncinia costata and U. tenuis f. firmula. Additionally, a new section of Carex, sect. Pellucidae, is circumscribed in this paper for the sectional placement of C. stuessyi and cognate species. En el Archipilago Juan Fernndez se encuentran diez miembros de la tribu Cariceae (Cyperaceae): cuatro especies de Carex y seis de Uncinia. Ocho de las especies se hallan en la Isla Alejandro Selkirk (= Masafuera; 50 km2), y cuatro en la Isla Robinson Crusoe (= Masatierra; 48 km2). Se describen cuatro nuevos taxones endmicos para el Archipilago: Carex fernandezensis, C. stuessyi, Uncinia aspericaulis, y U. macloviformis. Slo dos especies endmicas, Carex berteroniana y Uncinia douglasii, son frecuentes en ambas islas. Otro endemismo, Uncinia costata, es conocido slo en la localidad de coleccin del tipo en Alejandro Selkirk. Las tres especies restantes, Uncinia phleoides, U. tenuis, y Carex phalaroides, se encuentran tambin en el continente Sudamericano, y se cita aqu por primera vez C. phalaroides para el archipilago. Se lectotipifican los nombres Uncinia costata y U. tenuis f. firmula, y se describe una nueva seccin de Carex, sect. Pellucidae, para ubicar a C. stuessyi y taxones afines.
23223200|This is the first contribution to the knowledge of the lignicolous marine fungi from Mar del Plata, Argentina. Ten species were collected from submerged wood panels, intertidal wood and driftwood. Seven species of Ascomycotina are described: Ceriosporopsis caduca E.B.G. Jones & Zainal, C. halima Linder, Halosphaeria appendiculata Linder, Lulworthia medusa (Ellis & Everh.) Cribb & Cribb. f. halima Hughes, Marinospora calyptrata (Kohlm.) A. R. Caval., Remispora quadriremis (Hhnk) Kohlm. and R. stellata Kohlm. and three species of Deuteromycotina: Cirrenalia macrocephala (Kohlm.) Meyers & R.T. Moore, Zalerion maritimum (Linder) Anastasiou and Z. varium Anastasiou. Six are new records for Argentina and three of them are new records for South America.
23223904|Structural anatomy of seedlings of Cupressus lusitanica Mill., C. macrocarpa Hartw. and C. sempervirens L. (Cypress) cultivated in Argentina was studied. Seedlings of these species were fixed at eight different stages of the germination process. Anatomical features of root, hypocotyl, cotyledonary node, cotyledons and epicotyl were described. The root-hypocotyl-cotyledon vascular transition was analized. In the root and in most of the hypocotyl length, the protoxylem exhibits exarch position. At the cotyledonary node the metaxylem differentiates gradual- and laterally divergent from the protoxylem. In sections of the upper zone of the hypocotyl, close to the cotyledonary node, the protoxylem shows an endarch position. In the epicotyl, the undifferentiated procambium alternates with the cotyledonary vascular bundles. The number of xylematic poles is equal to the number of cotyledons in thr three species. Se estudi la estructura anatmica de las plntulas de Cupressus lusitanica Mill., C. macrocarpa Hartw. y C. sempervirens L. (Ciprs) cultivados en la Argentina. Plntulas de las mencionadas especies fueron fijadas en ocho etapas diferentes de la germinacin. Se describieron los caracteres anatmicos de la raz, el hipoctilo, el nudo cotiledonar, los cotiledones y el epictilo y se analiz la transicin vascular raz-hipoctilo-cotiledn. En la raz y en la mayor parte del hipoctilo, el protoxilema presenta posicin exarca. En el nudo cotiledonar, el metaxilema se diferencia progresiva y lateralmente divergente desde el protoxilema. En secciones de la zona superior del hipoctilo, muy cerca del nudo cotiledonar, el protoxilema muestra una posicin endarca. En el epictilo, el procmbium no diferenciado alterna con los haces vasculares cotiledonares. El nmero de polos xilemticos es igual al nmero de cotiledones, en todas las especies estudiadas.
23215553|Se ha realizado un estudio taxonmico de las especies argentinas y chilenas del gnero Hierochlo (Gramineae, nom. conserv.). Este gnero se halla representado en Amrica austral por nueve especies y sus variedades, siete de las primeras son comunes a las floras de Argentina y Chile; hasta el momento, las 2 restantes slo se han encontrado en Chile. Se establece que el tipo de Holcus redolens Vahl., hoy Hierochlo redolens (Vahl.) Roem. et Schult., sin lugar a dudas es de origen sudamericano. Las especies se describen e ilustran, se seala su rea de difusin, y se da una breve descripcin de su anatoma foliar. A taxonomic revision of the argentine and chilean species of Hierochlo (Gramineae, nom. conserv.) has been made. In Austroamerica, the genus is represented by 9 species, seven of which are common to the floras of Argentina and Chile; up to now, the remaining two have only been found in Chile. The southamerican origin of the type specimen of Holcus redolens Vahl., now Hierochlo redolens (Vahl) Roem. et Schult., is being established. The different species are described, illustrated, their distribution indicated, as well as a brief description of their leaf-anatomy given.
23217342|Exomorphological Numerical Taxonomy of four South American species of Elytrigia (Gramineae). The exomorphic characters of the following four South American species of Elytrigia were studied: E. attenuata (Kunth) Covas, E. breviaristata (A. Hitchc.) Covas, E. scabrifolia (Doell) Covas, E. tilcarensis (J. H. Hunz.) Covas. Numerical methods were applied to estimate the degree of similarity. Clusted analysis was performed on 14 morphological characters of 100 individuals and ordination by principal components analysis was done on the same characters of the four species, based on basic matrix data MBD-2 (Table 2). Both numerical methods indicate a strong similarity between E. attenuata and E. breviaristata. E. scabrifolia and E. tilcarensis show a low degree of similarity with all other species studied. These results are in close agreement with cytogenetic data from interspecific hybrids and with the ecological characteristics of the species but are not congruent with protein electrophoretic data, which have been published elsewhere (Hunziker and Ferrari, 1986).
23215057|In the mountains of Crdoba in central Argentina, a curious peach tree has become established in the wild, called  duraznero de palo  because the drupe has only little greenish, non edible flesh. This is described as Prunus persica var. aposarca nov. var. and interpreted as a filogenetic regression. Economically this variety is of interest for grafting because of its strong root system, but germination of the stones is very low, unless a cold treatment is applied. In connection with this variety a general subspecific system for P. persica is proposed, with subspec. floriplena nov. ssp. for the double-flowered sorts. The origin, genetic constitution of the species and an experiment on leaf evaporation are discussed.
23216461|En el presente estudio se ha realizado una revisin de las especies argentinas del gnero Ichnanthus Palisot de Beauvois, analizando material de la Argentina y de pases limtrofes; en ella se incluyen ocho especies y una variedad, que se ilustran y describen. De las mismas se hallaban citadas I. minarum, I. pallens e I. procurrens (bajo Panicum procurrens). El resto de las especies e I. pallens var. majus constituyen nuevas citas para la Repblica Argentina (I. venturii, sinnimo de I. nemorosus, fue descripto sobre la base de material de nuestro pas). Se diferenci a Ichnanthus de sus gneros afines, a fin de resolver la ubicacin taxonmica de I. procurrens, I. minarum y P. excavatum.
23228253|The name Mollinedia maxima is proposed to replace Mollinedia macrophylla, an illegitimate homonym. Se propone el nombre Mollinedia maxima para reemplazar Mollinedia macrophylla, un homnimo ilegtimo.
23213801|La autora ha realizado un estudio crtico de las especies argentinas (excluidas las patagnicas) de Festuca, establecindose como vlidas: F. nardifolia Griseb., F. magellanica Lam., F. rubra L., F. ventanicola Spegazz., F. pampeana Spegazz., F. pallescens (St. Yves) Parodi, F. kurtziana St. Yves, F. weberbaueri Pilg., F. stuckertii St. Yves, F. chrysophylla Philippi, F. lilloi Hackel, F. parodii St. Yves, F. hieronymi Hackel, F. fiebrigii Pilg., F. uninodis Hackel, F. humilior Nees-Meyen, F. scripifolia Kunth, F. buchtienii Hackel, F. distichovaginata Pilg., F. orthophylla Pilg., F. eriostoma Hackel, F. argentina (Spegazz.) Parodi, F. desvauxii Philippi, F. hypsophila Philippi, F. argentinensis (St. Yves) Trpe, F. dissitiflora Griseb., F. circinata Griseb., F. superba Parodi in herb., F. nemoralis Trpe, F. subulata Trin., F. ampliflora Doell. y F. ulochaeta Steud. Se describen dos especies y una variedad nuevas: F. superba Parodi in herb., F. nemoralis nov. sp. y F. lilloi Hackel var. breviaristata nov. var., una variedad se eleva a la categora de especie: F. argentinensis (St. Yves) nov. comb. y una subvariedad a la categora de variedad: F. hieronymi Hackel var. expansa (St. Yves) nov. comb. F. fiebrigii Pilg., F. humilior Nees-Meyen, F. buchtienii Hackel, F. desvauxii Philippi, F. ulochaeta Steud. y F. ampliflora Doell, descritas para otros pases, se dan a conocer por primera vez como integrantes de la flora argentina. F. rubra L., F. magellanica Lam., F. pallescens (St. Yves) Parodi, F. argentina (Spegazz.) Parodi y F. weberbaueri Pilg. son comunes al territorio patagnico y al aqu considerado. De acuerdo con el ancho de sus lminas foliares, las especies de Festuca pueden dividirse en dos grandes grupos: uno constituido por aquellas con hojas de lminas planas de ms de 3 mm de ancho, que miden ms de 1 m de altura y presentan innovaciones generalmente extravaginales, y otro grupo con lminas conduplicadas de menos de 3 mm de ancho, integrado por plantas de pocos cm hasta 1 m de altura, con innovaciones intra-, rara vez, extravaginales. El trabajo incluye una clave para determinar las especies, la descripcin de las mismas, su distribucin, otras observaciones y la cita de material estudiado, ilustrndose la mayora de las especies con dibujos originales. The author has completed a critical study of the Argentine Festuca species (excepting those of Patagonia, which were already monographed by Parodi in 1953). The following species are accepted as valid ones: F. nardifolia Griseb., F. magellanica Lam., F. rubra L., F. ventanicola Spegazz., F. pasnpeana Spegazz., F. pallescens (St. Yves) Parodi, F. kurtziana St. Yves, F. weberbaueri Pilg., F. stuckertii St. Yves, F. chrysophylla Philippi, F. lilloi Hackel, F. parodii St. Yves, F. hieronymi Hackel, F. fiebrigii Pilg., F. uninodis Hackel, F. humilior Nees et Meyen, F. scirpifolia Kunth, F. buchtienii Hackel, F. distichovaginata Pilg., F. orthophylla Pilg., F. eriostoma Hackel, F. argentina (Spegazz.) Parodi, F. desvauxii Philippi, F. hypsophila Phillippi, F. argentinensis (St. Yves) Trpe, F. dissitiflora Griseb., F. circinata Griseb., F. superba Parodi in herb., F. nemoralis Trpe, F. subulata Trin., F. ampliflora Doell and F. ulochaeta Steud. Two new species and one variety are described: F. superba Parodi in herb., F. nemoralis nov. sp. and F. lilloi Hackel var. breviaristata nov. var., one variety is ascended to the category of species: F. argentinensis (St. Yves) nov. comb., and one subvariety is given the category of variety: F. hieronymi Hackel var. expansa (St. Yves) nov. comb. F. fiebrigii Pilg., F. humilior Nees et Meyen, F. buchtienii Hackel, F. desvauxii Philippi, F. ulochaeta Steud. and F. ampliflora Doell, described as existing in other countries, are presented here as integrants of the Argentine flora for the first time. F. rubra L., F. magellanica Lam., F. pallescens (St. Yves) Parodi, F. argentina (Spegazz.) Parodi and F. weberbaueri Pilg. are common to the regions studied in this work and to Patagonia (Parodi, 1953). According to the width of their blades, the Festuca species of Argentina can be divided into two big groups: one of those with flat blades, of more than 1 m high, which usually have extravaginal innovations, and the other with conduplicate blades of less than 3 mm wide, composed of plants of few cm high, up to 1 m, with intra-, seldom, extravaginal innovations. The work includes a key to determine the species, their description, their distribution, other observations, and the references of the studied material, being most of the species originally illustrated.
23222957|The morphology, distributional patterns of phenolic compounds and meiotic behaviour of several individuals of G. incisa (Hook.) Tronc., G. pulchella (Sweet) Tronc. and six natural putative hybrids from the province of Corrientes (Argentina) were analyzed. Both species belong to welldifferentiated morphological groups and possess taxon-specific chromatographic compounds. Putative hybrids are morphologically intermediate and their chromatograms show almost total addition of the compounds of the parental species. Two numerical techniques (principal component analysis and distance diagram) are congruent, and both show the intermediacy of the putative hybrids. Despite the morphological and chromatographical similarities of the hybrids, their meiotic behaviour presents highly significant differences in chain bivalents, circle bivalents, univalents and chiasma frequency. The results obtained suggest that some genic combinations of parental species are more disharmonious than others. According to Jackson's (1984) model, the parental species would be polymorphic and/or polytypic for mutations that cause changes in the site of attachment of genome to the nuclear membrane. The ability of the chromosomes to pair in the F1 hybrids will depend on the distance of the nuclear site attachment of its two parental genomes, and pairing at the diploid level would be controlled by a relatively simple gene system.
23218067|This paper deals with the leaf and stem anatomical characters (including the epidermical ones) of the genus Munroa Torrey. The main conclusions derived from this study are: Munroa is a C4 genus, K-PS-NAD-me. It has all the characteristics assigned to this category: double bundle sheath and the chloroplasts in the Kranz sheath cells are centripetally placed. The anatomical studies support the subdivision of this genus in three sections following Anton and Hunziker (1978): Sect. Munroa, Sect. Hemimunroa and Sect. Apelytron. Munroa squarrosa, the only species of Sect. Munroa, is characterized by several features, some of them peculiar to this section and others shared with sections Hemimunroa and Apelytron (table 1). According to the anatomical characters it is not possible to recognize M. andina as belonging to a different genus: Hemimunroa, sensu Parodi 1937. The genera Munroa, Blepharidachne, Dasyochloa and Erioneuron can be separated by the anatomical features of the stem.
23215615|This paper describes a study of the foliar fiber sclereids of Byttneria coriacea. Their size ranges between 55-380 . Their shape is very variable: they can be twisted in different ways or they may have 1, 2 or more branches. The walls are quite thick, but not very lignified; pits are very scarce. The sclereids are restricted to the mesophyll which they cross in all directions, also forming a netlike subepidermal layer specially on the adaxial face of the leaf. The range of density of sclereids is very wide, going from a few branches crossing the areoles to a remarkable network through the blade.
23222962|The spores of six species and one variety of Asplenium from Buenos Aires Province are described and illustrated with the aid of the SEM. These are: Asplenium dareoides Desv., A. gilliesii Hook., A. monanthes L., A. resiliens Kze., A. sellowianum Presl, A. ulbrichtii Rosenst. var. ulbrichtii and A. ulbrichtii var. serrato-dentata Rosenst. A basic pattern of perispore is proposed: costate-alate, with three groups based in type and density of the folds. A key to difference species is given.
darwiniana.2.1.174|Plant species that coexist and share pollinators may experience inter-specific competition for pollinator service or interference of improper pollen. To avoid the latter, plant species may use different areas of the pollinators body to deposit their pollen, either by different floral architectures or by different floral lengths. We evaluate here the existence of this pattern of differential use of body areas of pollinators in 33 sphingophilous communities of subtropical Argentina. We use null models to evaluate if the plants deposit the pollen overdispersed relative to what would be expected by chance either in different body parts or at different heights in the proboscis of hawkmoth pollinators. We found that 42 native plants species are pollinated by hawkmoths in subtropical Argentina. We observed a significant and positive correlation between the operative length i.e. the distance between anthers and stigma from nectar of the flowers and the mean length of the proboscis of hawkmoth pollinators. However, both the average diversity of pollen deposition sites and the average difference of operative length between sphingophilous plant species present in the same community were not significantly different than expected under a null model. When analyzing the results in individual communities, nine communities showed a diversity of pollen deposition sites significantly higher than expected by chance and two communities showed a difference in the operative length greater than expected by chance. These results suggest that other factors such as the degree of generalization in pollination, phenology and / or the use of distinctive floral signals may be avoiding competition for pollinators between coexisting plants species.
23227137|Two new species of Mandevilla (Apocynoideae, Mesechiteae) subgenus Exothostemon, endemic to Brasil, are described. Mandevilla abortiva is somewhat related with M. huberi, M. obtusifolia and M. pachyphylla, and their relationships are discussed. Mandevilla clandestina has been confused with M. scabra, but differs by its smaller flowers. Full descriptions, illustrations and specimens examined are given for both taxa. Se describen dos nuevas especies de Mandevilla (Apocynoideae, Mesechiteae) subgnero Exothostemon, endmicas de Brasil. Mandevilla abortiva se encuentra relacionada con un grupo de especies conformado por M. huberi. M. obtusifolia y M. pachyphylla, discutindose sus afinidades con esos taxones. Mandevilla clandestina ha sido confundida por largo tiempo con M. scabra, diferencindose por sus flores ms pequeas. Se incluyen descripciones completas, ilustraciones y el listado de especmenes examinados para ambos taxones.
darwiniana.2.2.237|The first finding of
23211596|La relacin  Longitud del pistilo: Volumen del grano de polen  (R. P. P.), se obtiene dividiendo el nmero que representa la longitud mxima que debe recorrer el tubo polnico, expresada en micrones, por el nmero que representa el volumen del grano de polen, expresado en micrones cbicos. Dicha relacin es, dentro de ciertos lmites, fija para cada especie y es sensiblemente semejante en entidades afines sistemticamente (p. ej. especies de un gnero homogneo). El valor de la R. P. P. es elevado en grupos muy evolucionados, en tanto que es comparativamente bajo en entidades primitivas. Dicho valor puede ser un auxiliar valioso en la elaboracin de sistemas de clasificacin filogenticos. Se determina el valor de la R. P. P. en 240 especies pertenecientes a 68 familias.
23223185|The neotropical genus Trixis comprises 37 species of shrubs, subshrubs and herbs. This work is a taxonomic revision of the 21 South American species that includes a description of the genus, keys to the species, subespecies and related genera, and a list of excluded names. All taxa are described and illustrated and distribution maps are given. The systematic treatment is preceded by an analysis of morphological and anatomical characters: stems, leaves, types of trichomes, corollas, phyllaries, achenes and disposition of the capitula. The new species T. peruviana is described, and two changes of status are proposed: T. antimenorrhoea (Schrank) Kuntze subsp. discolor (D.Don) Katinas and T. verbascifolia (Gardner) Blake subsp. gigas (Wawra) Katinas. The new combination T. nobilis (Vell.) Katinas comb. nov. for T. verbasciformis Less. is proposed.
23225163|Prototheca zopfii (Trebouxiophyceae, Chlorophyta) is a coccoid, colorless algae that we isolated from Reconquista River (Argentina, Prov. de Buenos Aires, Pdo. Tigre) during september 2000. Morphological and physiological (carbon sources assimilation) studies were carried out for its correct identification. The ability of P. zopfii for "gas oil" utilization was evaluated by its growth in culture media containing "gas oil" up to 10% (v/v) as unique carbon and energy source. Prototheca zopfii es una alga cocoide, incolora que hemos aislado del ro Reconquista en septiembre del 2000 (Argentina, Prov. de Buenos Aires, Pdo. Tigre). Para la correcta identificacin de la especie se llevaron a cabo estudios morfolgicos y fisiolgicos (asimilacin de fuentes carbonadas). La capacidad de utilizar "gas oil" de P. zopfii se evalu por su capacidad de crecimiento en medios de cultivo conteniendo "gas oil" hasta el 10% (v/v) como nica fuente de carbono y energa.
23222960|This paper deals with the androsporangium development, androsporogenesis and androgametogenesis of 3 Argentine species of Cucurbitaceae, with emphasis in the mechanism of anther dehiscence and the possible physical link between the gametogenic cell and the siphonogenic nucleous within the androphyte (pollen grain). The following are the main conclusions: a) The androsporangium wall develops according to the basic type established by Davis (1966), with 2 or 3 middle layers in different areas of the same androsporangium wall. The tapetum is of the secretory type with uninucleate cells. Sporogenous cells of Cayaponia citrullifolia (Griseb.) Cogn. y C. bonariensis (Mill.) Mart. Crov. show different ability to divide mitotically before meiosis. Meiotic cytokinesis is simultaneous and produces tetrahedric tetrads. Androphytes are 2-celled when shed. b) Endothecium cells exhibit ringed or spiralled fibrous thickenings on their tangential walls, like a folding hood. During the dehiscence the endothecial cells compress along their tangential axis. In Cayaponia citrullifolia and C. bonariensis the epidermal cells also compress under endothecial pression and the androsporangium wall contracts over itself. But in Cucurbitella duriaei (Naudin) Cogn. the epidermal cells resist endothecial pressure and the androsporangium wall contracts more on its inner side than on the outer one, bending towards the loculus. Both dehiscence mechanism are in relation to the androecium structure. c) The androgametogenesis suggests some kind of physical link between the gametogenic cell and the siphonogenic nucleous, which together form the male germ unit (Owens, 1992). This linkage could be established during or immediately after the mitosis of the androspore. According to some figures published in the literature, the gametogenic cell seems to be linked to the siphonogenic nucleous in other species of Cucurbitaceae and it is also possible that the male gametes could be linked to the siphonogenic nucleous within the pollen tube.
23212180|In this paper are considered the species of Septobasidium up to the present known from Argentina. Ten species and one variety in all are described: four species (S. pseudopedicellatum, S. Saccardinum, S. prosopidicola and S. Cupressi) resulted as already known, four species and one variety (S. Carestianum, S. Carestianum var. natalense, S. natalense, S. conidiophorum and Septobasidium sp.) are mentioned for the first time for this country and two (S. guaraniticum and S. caveniae) are species new to science.
41825694|We have analyzed the ethnobotany and anatomy of five aromatic species with medicinal or edible use, highly valued in Argentine Patagonia: Valeriana clarionifolia, V. carnosa (Valerianaceae), Azorella monantha, Osmorhiza chilensis and Eryngium paniculatum (Apiaceae). We focused on the characterization of the secretory structures of the underground organs and their possible link to sensory perceptions and uses given by the people. Ethnobotanical work was conducted in two Mapuche indigenous communities of the province of Neuqun and in two communities of Chubut, with a total of 53 interviews. The anatomical work consisted of structural and ultrastructural observation of the secretory structures. Informants indicated that E. paniculatum is mainly used to treat digestive and liver disorders; O. chilensis for vision problems, and A. monantha as urinary and antitussive; also underground organs of these three species are eaten raw and/or cooked. Valeriana species are mainly used as analgesic, digestive, antitussive and in cultural syndromes. The taste and smell are the main sensory properties used to recognize and use the Valeriana and O. chilensis species. Azorella monantha and E. paniculatum are recognized by their morphological characteristics, but also are valued for its taste and smell. The microscopic observations revealed the presence of schizogenous secretory cavities in O. chilensis, E. paniculatum and A. monantha, and abundance of starch. In species of Valeriana periderm is observed with a high content of essential oils like drops. We conclude that these species have organoleptic attributes originated in specialized anatomical structures, which partly explain their food and/or medicinal uses. Se analiza la etnobotnica y anatoma de cinco especies aromticas de uso medicinal y/o comestible altamente valoradas en la Patagonia argentina: Valeriana clarionifolia, V. carnosa (Valerianaceae), Azorella monantha, Osmorhiza chilensis y Eryngium paniculatum (Apiaceae). El principal nfasis ha sido la caracterizacin de las estructuras secretoras de sus rganos subterrneos y su posible vinculacin con las percepciones sensoriales y usos dados por los pobladores. El trabajo etnobotnico se realiz en dos comunidades indgenas Mapuches de la Provincia de Neuqun y en otras dos de la Provincia de Chubut, con un total de 53 entrevistas. El trabajo anatmico consisti en la observacin estructural y ultraestructural de las estructuras secretoras. Los informantes indicaron que E. paniculatum es principalmente usada para tratar trastornos digestivos y hepticos, O. chilensis para problemas de la visin y A. monantha como urinaria y antitusiva; adems los rganos subterrneos de estas tres especies se consumen crudos y/o cocidos. Las especies de Valeriana son usadas principalmente como analgsicas, digestivas, antitusivas y en sndromes culturales. El sabor y el aroma son las principales propiedades sensoriales usadas para reconocer y usar las especies de Valeriana y O. chilensis. A. monantha y E. paniculatum son reconocidas por sus caractersticas morfolgicas, aunque tambin se valoran por su sabor y aroma. Las observaciones microscpicas revelan la presencia de cavidades secretoras esquizgenas en O. chilensis, E. paniculatum y A. monantha y abundante presencia de almidn. En las especies de Valeriana se observa la peridermis con elevado contenido de aceites esenciales como gotas. Se concluye que estas cinco especies poseen atributos organolpticos originados en estructuras anatmicas especializadas, los que en parte explicaran sus empleos alimenticios y/o medicinales.
23226693|Menonvillea filifolia subsp. marticorenae is described, and its distinguishing characters from M. filifolia subsp. filifolia are given. The genus Grammosperma is reduced to synonymy of Sarcodraba. A key to the four species of Sarcodraba is presented, and the new combination S. dusenii is proposed. Skottsbergianthus sorianoi is lectotypified and reduced to synonymy of Xerodraba colobanthoides. Se describe Menonvillea filifolia subsp. marticorenae, destacndose sus caracteres diferenciales frente a M. filifolia subsp. filifolia. El gnero Grammosperma se incluye en la sinonimia de Sarcodraba. Se presenta una clave para la identificacin de las cuatro especies de Sarcodraba, proponindose la nueva combinacin S. dusenii. Se lectotipifica Skottsbergianthus sorianoi y se la incluye como sinnimo de Xerodraba colobanthoides.
23223897|In this contribution the authors update the grammitoid ferns growing in Argentina and Chile recognizing 3 genera (Grammitis Sw., Lellingeria A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran and Melpomene A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran), 5 species and one new record for Argentina, Lellingeria tungurahuae (Rosenst.) A.R. Sm & R.C. Moran. The novel generic concept is discussed and geographic distribution, synonymy and illustrations are also given. En esta contribucin los autores actualizan los helechos grammitoides que crecen en Argentina y Chile, reconociendo 3 gneros (Grammitis Sw., Lellingeria A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran y Melpomene A.R. Sm & R.C. Moran) y 5 especies, una de ellas nueva para Argentina, Lellingeria tungurahuae (Rosenst.) A.R. Sm. & R.C. Moran. Se discute el nuevo concepto genrico y tambin se da la sinonimia, distribucin geogrfica e ilustraciones de los taxones presentados.
23225137|This paper comprises a synopsis of the species of Alchornea growing in Argentina. These species are Alchornea castaneifolia, A. sidifolia and A. triplinervia, and one subspecies- A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana. A key to recognize the species and the subspecies, as well as descriptions, synonymy, illustrations and comments on the taxa studied are given. Alchornea sidifolia and A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana are new records for Argentina. Este trabalho compreende uma sinopse das espcies de Alchornea presentes na Argentina. As espcies so: Alchornea castaneifolia, A. sidifolia, A. triplinervia, e a subspcie A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana. So apresentadas chave para separao das espcies e subspcies, bem como descries, sinonmias, ilustraes e comentrios sobre os txons estudados. Alchornea sidifolia e A. glandulosa subsp. iricurana so citadas pela primeira vez para a Argentina.
23215698|This paper deals with the morphological study of the seeds of some species of Prosopis from northeastern Argentina. The main purpose was to find enough qualitative and quantitative characters as to be able to identify the species by its seeds. As a result of this work a key, descriptions and illustrations are given.
23213879|This contribution is based on a revision of more than 1500 collections of Scleroderma from the world over, deposited in 43 Herbaria (ADW, B. BAFC, BPI, BR, C, COL, E, ENCB, F, FH, IARI, K, L, LE, LISU, LPS, MEXU, MICH, NCU, NY, OSC, PAD, PC, PH, PNH, PR, PRE, RAB, S, SP, TAA, TRT, UC, UPSV, WSP, Herb. BRUSIS, Herb. COOKE, Herb. DEMOULIN, Herb. HOMOLA, Herb. KREISEL, Herb. NUEVO LEON and Herb. SAN FRANCISCO). The material was studied with the aid of slides mounted in 5 % KOH solution, Melzer solution or lactophenol-cotton blue; in some cases the slides treated with lactophenol were boiled, in order to observe the spores free of any surronding gelatine. The author made some field observations on Scleroderma, principally in Michigan (U.S.A.) and in Central Mexico. While preparing this monograph a special effort was made to study all the available types of the taxa; in this way it was possible to study more than 50 types.
23222520|Studies on Solanaceae XXX. Revision of Aureliana. Taxonomic survey of Aureliana Sendtner, a small neotropical genus of 5 species: A. fasciculata (Vellozo) Sendt. [with 3 varieties: var. fasciculata, var. tomentella (Sendt.) Barboza et A. T. Hunz. nov. comb., and var. longifolia (Sendt.) A. T. Hunz. et Barboza nov. comb.], A. brasiliana (A. T. Hunz.) Barboza et A. T. Hunz. nov. comb., A. tomentosa Sendt., A. velutina Sendt. and A. wettsteiniana (Witas.) A. T. Hunz. et Barboza nov. comb. The 7 taxa grow in Brazil, but 3 of them deserve a special mention: A. fasciculata var. tomentella reaches southeastern Paraguay and Argentina (eastern Misiones); instead A. fasciculata var. longifolia and A. fasciculata var. fasciculata show a rather peculiar distribution because aside of their eastern area, both have been collected in Bolivia (Santa Cruz and Pando). After a discussion on the complicated taxonomical history of the genus, the authors point out its relationships with 6 allied genera of the Solaneae, above all with Capsicum L.; a key to identify these 7 genera is included as well. Each taxon is described together with remarks about their geographical distribution and affinities. Five plates and a map are included in the text.
23213794|In these posthumous studies on the Argentine and Uruguayan Gramineae-Paniceae, the author gives keys for the tribes of subfamily Panicoideae and for the 29 genera of the tribe Paniceae, accepted within the area in consideration. There follow short synopses of several of these genera, viz. Oplismenus Beauv., Sacciolepis Nash, Hymenachne Beauv., Urochloa Beauv., Acroceras Stapf, Brachiaria (Trin.) Gris. and Paspalidium Stapf. The most extensive of these monographs is that of Brachiaria, with 8 species, all illustrated. As novelties Panicum chacoense Parodi and Paspalum jesuiticum Parodi nov. sp., are described. A list of the new names and combinations and a bibliography is added.  A. B.
23223187|Palynological analysis of 29 samples belonging to 3 honey harvests (1990-1993) in the Paran River area shows that species of Leguminosae, Myrtaceae and Asteraceae are dominant. Pollen of hydrophylic species in Alismataceae and Polygonaceae are present in almost every sample. The pollen content allows to differentiate these honeys from others in Argentina.
23223914|The presence of endomycorrhizal fungus associated with plants in a native mountain grassland in Central Argentina is studied. Acaulospora bireticulata Rothwell & Trappe, Acaulospora excavata Ingleby & Walker, Acaulospora gerdemannii Schenk & Nicolson, Acaulospora mellea Spain & Schenck, Acaulospora scrobiculata Trappe, Acaulospora spinosa Walker & Trappe and Entrophospora infrequens (Hall) Ames & Schneider (Glomales, Acaulosporaceae) are cited, described and illustrated for the first time for Argentina (Pampa de Achala, Crdoba); they are found in the rhizosphere of Briza subaristata Lam., Deyeuxia hieronymi (Hack.) Trpe, Eragrostis lugens Nees, Poa stuckertii (Hack.) Parodi, Sorghastrum pellitum (Hack.) Parodi (Poaceae) and Alchemilla pinnata Ruiz & Pav. (Rosaceae). Se investig la presencia de hongos endomicorrcicos asociados a plantas de un pastizal autctono de altura del centro de Argentina. Acaulospora bireticulata Rothwell & Trappe, Acaulospora excavata Ingleby & Walker, Acaulospora gerdemannii Schenk & Nicolson, Acaulospora mellea Spain & Schenck, Acaulospora scrobiculata Trappe, Acaulospora spinosa Walker & Trappe y Entrophospora infrequens (Hall) Ames & Schneider (Glomales, Acaulosporaceae) son citadas, descriptas e ilustradas por primera vez para Argentina (Pampa de Achala, Crdoba) y fueron halladas en la rizosfera de Briza subaristata Lam., Deyeuxia hieronymi (Hack.) Trpe, Eragrostis lugens Nees, Poa stuckertii (Hack.) Parodi, Sorghastrum pellitum (Hack.) Parodi (Poaceae) y Alchemilla pinnata Ruiz & Pav. (Rosaceae).
23228245|This paper analyzes the Zea mays racial variability and their relationship with the greater emphasis put on agricultural practices in the Southern Argentine "Puna" during ca. 1300-700 years BP, taking in account the archaeobotanical record of the sites "Cueva Cacao 1A" and "Bajo del Coypar II" ("Antofagasta de la Sierra", Catamarca, Argentina). Eight maize races were identified: Pisincho, Morocho, Morocho amarillo, Marrn, Harinoso Amarillo, Capia, Culli and Chullpi. This high biodiversity is a clear exponent about the introduction process of multiple maize races in the region. This process would have begun between the end of Formative Period in any moment among 1300 and 1000 years BP and becoming stronger in later moments. En el presente trabajo se analiza la variabilidad racial de Zea mays y sus implicancias en relacin con el establecimiento de un mayor nfasis en las prcticas agrcolas en la Puna meridional argentina para el lapso ca. 1300-700 aos AP, a partir del registro arqueobotnico de los sitios arqueolgicos Cueva Cacao 1A y Bajo del Coypar II (Antofagasta de la Sierra, Catamarca). Se identific la presencia de ocho razas de maz: Pisincho, Morocho, Morocho amarillo, Marrn, Harinoso amarillo, Capia, Culli y Chullpi. Esta alta biodiversidad es un claro exponente del proceso de incorporacin de mltiples razas de maz en la regin, que habra comenzado hacia fines del Perodo Formativo en algn momento entre 1300 y 1000 aos AP, intensificndose en momentos posteriores.
41825710|This paper analyzes the distribution of vascular plants species endemic to the southern central Andes (south-western Bolivia and north-western Argentina). All 540 species endemic to the study regions (approx. 720600 km) have been included in the analysis. The main part of the endemic species is found in semiarid habitats between 1500-3500 m asi pointing to the topographically complex plateau, slope, and valley system of the southern central Andes as the main locations for its endemic flora. The distribution of the endemic species within arid sites is in contrast with that of vascular plant diversity in general, as the most diverse habitat of the region is the moist subtropical Tucumano-Bolivian Yungas forest of the eastern Andes slope. A total of 17 well defined and partly overlapping distribution patterns were indentified. The broadest distribution pattern defines a general area of endemism for the southern central Andes. This area extends through nearly the entire region and is defined by species that are widespread within the region in desert to sub-humid environments of the high Andes, slopes, or valleys. Nearly all other areas of endemism are nested within this broad distribution pattern as successively north-south overlapping areas along the slopes and valleys of the Andes and the Pampeanas Range. Despite the distributional bias of endemism towards the arid sites almost half of the endemic species are restricted to a few high endemic areas that lie in juxtaposition to the main rainfall zones. These areas contain the widest habitat ranges in terms of altitude and rainfall within the region with the endemic species being equally variable in altitude and moisture requirements. Previous defined phytogeographic units were not recognized among the distribution patterns. However, the northern part of the Prepuna can be defined as two partly overlapping distribution patterns. Este trabajo analiza la distribucin de especies de plantas vasculares endmicas de la porcin sur de los Andes centrales (sudoeste de Bolivia y noroeste de Argentina). En el anlisis se incluyeron 540 especies endmicas de la regin estudiada (aproximadamente 720.600 km). La mayora de las especies endmicas se halla en ambientes semiridos, entre 1500-3500 m s. m., encontrndose principalmente en valles, laderas y mesetas del topogrficamente complejo sur de los Andes centrales. Las reas de endemismos aqu halladas se presentan consecuentemente en ambientes ridos y no en ambientes hmedos subtropicales de las Yungas tucumano-bolivianas, a pesar de que en esta ltima regin la diversidad de plantas vasculares es mayor. Se identificaron un total de 17 patrones de distribucin bien definidos, y parcialmente solapados. El patrn de distribucin ms amplio define un rea general de endemismos para los Andes centrales. Esta rea se extiende a lo largo de casi toda la regin y est delimitada por especies que se distribuyen en ambientes desrticos a sub-hmedos en laderas, valles o regiones altoandinas. Casi todas las restantes reas de endemismo se encuentran anidadas dentro del patrn de distribucin amplio antes citado, superponindose en el sentido norte-sur a lo largo de pendientes y valles de los Andes y de las Sierras Pampeanas. A pesar del sesgo observado en la distribucin hacia ambientes ridos, aproximadamente la mitad de las especies endmicas estn restringidas a unas pocas reas de alto endemismo, las que se encuentran en yuxtaposicin con las zonas ms lluviosas de la regin. Estas reas de alto endemismo incluyen los rangos de habitat ms amplios de la regin en trminos de altitud y precipitacin, siendo las especies endmicas igualmente variables en sus requerimientos de humedad y elevacin. Las unidades fitogeogrfcas previamente definidas por diversos autores no fueron encontradas entre los patrones de distribucin hallados; no obstante, la parte norte de la provincia Prepunea puede ser definida con dos patrones de distribucin parcialmente superpuestos.
23222534|Ultrastructure of some freshwater Bacillariophyceae, that are new records for Argentina. Three species of freshwater Bacillarophyceae, Stephanodiscus minutulus (Ktzing) Cleve et Mller, Navicula subminuscula Manguin and Caloneis amphisbaena (Bory) Cleve are mentioned for the first time in Argentina and are studied in the light and scanning electron microscope. Each taxa is described and illustrated.
23230185|A cytogenetic analysis using surface spreading and air drying was performed to analyze the mitotic chromosomes of Karwinskia calderonii, K. parvifolia and K. subcordata. The results confirm a diploid number 2n = 24 and a basic number x = 12. All species showed a somatic complement characterized by small meta- and submetacentric chromosomes. The smallest pair of each complement carried a secondary constriction and a satellite. Morphological and numerical constancy in the chromosome complements agree with previous studies in other species of the genus. Results suggest some kind of nucleotypic differentiation related to geographic factors as latitude and altitude. Se estudian y registran por vez primera las caractersticas cromosmicas de Karwinskia calderonii, K. parvifolia y K. subcordata. Se utiliz la metodologa de extendido y secado al aire, y los resultados confirmaron a Karwinskia como un gnero diploide 2n = 24, con un nmero bsico x = 12, y cromosomas metacntricos y submetacntricos de talla pequea, donde el par cromosmico ms pequeo exhibe una constriccin secundaria y satlites en los brazos cortos. Se observan constancia numrica y similitud morfolgica en los complementos cromosmicos de las especies estudiadas del gnero. Los resultados sugieren algn tipo de diferenciacin nucleotpica asociada a factores geogrficos como la latitud y la altitud.
23225110|This paper deals with a revised taxonomy of seven neotropical species of the genus Marattia (M. alata, M. cicutifolia, M. excavata, M. interposita, M. laevis, M. laxa y M. weinmanniifolia), based on morphological characters of the sporophyte, both vegetative and reproductive. A new and detailed description of the species is provided, along with synonymy, comments on habitat, geographical distribution and a complete list of the studied specimens. A key to identify the species is also given. Este trabajo presenta una revisin taxonmica actualizada de las siete especies neotropicales del gnero Marattia (M. alata, M. cicutifolia, M. excavata, M. interposita, M. laevis, M. laxa y M. weinmanniifolia), basada en caracteres morfolgicos del esporfito tanto vegetativos como reproductivos. Se presenta una detallada descripcin de las especies juntamente con comentarios sobre su hbitat, distribucin geogrfica, y una lista representativa de ejemplares estudiados. Tambin se incluye una clave para su determinacin.
23217315|Contribution to the knowledge of the family Warnowiaceae Lindemann (Class Dinophyceae) in the Southwestern Atlantic Ocean. The presence of ocellated dinoflagellates belonging to the family Warnowiaceae is recorded in the Southwestern Atlantic Ocean for the first time. Samples collected by the R/V "Dr. E. L. Holmberg" (May 1981) off Buenos Aires Province comprise Warnowia pulchra (Schiller) Schil. and W. rubescens (Kof. et Sw.) Lindem.; both species are described and distributional data together with temperature and salinity values are given. The genera Warnowia Lindem. and Nematodinium Kof. et Sw. are mentioned for the Mar del Plata region. In this site a three month cycle of periodic collections has demonstrated a cyclic appearance of these organisms related to the decrescent quarter of the lunar cycle.
90005723|A melisopalynological study of 49 honeys samples from the northwest of Crdoba province was performed.
41825707|This work is an ethnobotanical approach to the diversity of groups and local varieties of peaches and the criteria to delimit these ethnotaxa. It also describes management practices that accompanies the maintenance of this culture in a northwestern Argentinian community. A main classification was proposed, the cultivarieties group, defined as the set of varieties together under one common name which is the result of the sum of attributes derived from various locally defined criteria. A subcategorization known as etnovarieties, defined by specific characteristics, was also established. This first approach demonstrates the transcendental value that the incorporation and ownership of a foreign resource acquires as a representative element of the landscape and cultural context of the community, which is displayed on the deep knowledge of the inhabitants to shape a classification and incorporate the agricultural practices associated to this crop. Este trabajo constituye una aproximacin etnobotnica a la diversidad de grupos y variedades locales de duraznos y los criterios para delimitar esos etnotaxones. Adems, se describen las prcticas de manejo que acompaan la conservacin de este cultivo en una comunidad del noroeste argentino. Se estableci una clasificacin principal, denominada grupos de cultivariedades, la cual se define como el conjunto de variedades reunidas bajo un nico nombre vulgar, resultado de la suma de atributos y diversos criterios definidos localmente. Asimismo, se estableci una subcategorizacin en etnovariedades definidas por caractersticas particulares. Este primer acercamiento evidencia el valor trascendental que adquiere la incorporacin y apropiacin de un recurso forneo como elemento representativo del paisaje y del contexto sociocultural de la comunidad, el cual se expresa en el profundo conocimiento que poseen los pobladores para disear una clasificacin e incorporar prcticas agrcolas asociadas a este cultivo.
23223204|Caesalpinia L. sensu lato, is a pantropical genus with approximately 150 species: 40 of them occur in South America. There is great morphological variation within Caesalpinia: it includes trees, shrubs, and perennial herbs, some scandent, armed or not; hair-covering is diverse; pedicels are jointed or not; flowers with imbricated and falling sepals; legume chartaceous to woody, unarmed or echinate, frequently with dendromorphus hairs. Its species inhabits forests and semi-deserts. Two subgenera are currently accepted in this genus: Caesalpinia, with species in the New and Old World, characterized by not winged fruits and subgenus Mezoneuron (Desf.) Vidal ex Herendeen & Zarucchi, a subgenus of Old World species with winged fruits. Caesalpinia still needs further detailed studies in order to clarify its generic delimitation at a worldwide level. Hoffmannseggia Cav. sensu stricto, includes nearly 20 species growing from southern United States, N of Mexico, Andean and semi-deserts zones of Peru, Bolivia to Chile and Argentina;13 of these species occur in South America. This genus is probably a derived evolutionary unit from primitive Caesalpinia like group and it is mainly defined by herbaceous plants, sub-stemless and with gemmiferous roots, pedicels not jointed, flowers with sepals generally valvate, persistent, and legume without dendromorphus hairs.
23222956|The present treatment, which complements that of Morrone and Zuloaga (1992) of the South American species of Brachiaria (Trin.) Griseb. and Urochloa P. Beauv., considers 17 species of Urochloa for Mexico and Central America. The presence of U. ciliatissima (Buckl.) R.D. Webster and U. platyphylla (Nash) R.D. Webster in this area is discussed. Complete descriptions, synonymy, and distribution are only given for U. arizonica (Scribn. & Merr.) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. ciliatissima, U. discifera (Fourn.) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. meziana (Hitchc.) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. ophryodes (Chase) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. texana (Buckl.) R.D. Webster, and U. venosa (Swallen) Morrone & Zuloaga. Five new combinations are proposed: U. arizonica, U. discifera, U. meziana, U. ophryodes and U. venosa.
23226694|Lippia integrifolia and L. boliviana are related species that share the presence of appendices in anthers, apparently glandular. Several authors distinguished this species by leaf shape and margin. Collections coming from northern Salta (Argentina) display intermediate characters among both species. To evaluate whether there is a morphological basis to distinguish L. integrifolia from L. boliviana, phenetic relationships among 40 specimens including both species and their varieties were studied. A matrix of 46 morphologic characters was analyzed by cluster and ordination methods. Both the dendrogram and the distribution of the specimens in the principal components (PCA) analysis suggest that a precise limit between both species does not exist, and no characters to differentiate them were found. Consequently, L. boliviana is placed under the synonymy of L. integrifolia. A description of the species, the synonym list, a figure and map of distribution are included. Lippia integrifolia y L. boliviana son especies afines que comparten la presencia de apndices en las anteras, aparentemente glandulares. Diversos autores las distinguen por la forma y el margen foliar. Colecciones procedentes del N de Salta (Argentina), presentan caracteres intermedios entre ambas especies. Se estudiaron las relaciones fenticas entre 40 ejemplares de ambas especies y sus variedades para evaluar la validez de los taxones y determinar si existen caracteres que permitan diferenciarlos. Se analiz una matriz de 46 caracteres morfolgicos con mtodos de agrupamiento y de ordenacin. Tanto el fenograma como la distribucin de los ejemplares en el anlisis de componentes principales (PCA) sugieren que no existe un lmite preciso entre ambos taxones y no se hallaron caracteres que permitan diferenciarlos. Consecuentemente, se incluye a Lippia boliviana bajo la sinonimia de L. integrifolia. Se incluyen una descripcin de la especie, la lista de sinnimos, una figura y un mapa de distribucin.
23224217|This research is focused on the study of Klebsormidium nitens vegetative and reproductive cells. The following aspects have been considered for the identification of this species, which is a new record for Argentina: morphological characters, growth habits, aperture of zoosporangial cells, zoospore germination patterns and types of reproduction. As regards its life cycle, vegetative multiplication through an easy fragmentation of the thallus into short filaments was the prevailing mode of reproduction. Under adverse conditions, false (or pseudo) branches were formed from which new filaments were born. Asexual reproduction was induced "in vitro". Biflagellate zoospores with subapically inserted flagella came out from a pore in the lateral wall of sporangial cells. After swimming for a few minutes, zoospores withdrew the flagella, and germination was strictly unipolar. The basal cell presented a rudimentary holdfast with a fine mucilaginous attaching disc. After successive mitosis and cytokinesis a filament was formed which became planctonic after an eight-celled stage. The absence of a holdfast has so far been considered a diagnostic character of the genus, and for this reason the reconsideration of this feature at the generic level has been proposed. Sexual reproduction was not observed. The chromosome number found in K. nitens was n=6. A comparison among chromosome number, nucleus size and filament width with other species of Klebsormidium suggests a basic chromosome number x=6 and polyploidy as one of the processes involved in the evolution of Klebsormidium species. Se estudiaron las clulas vegetativas y reproductivas de Klebsormidium nitens, primera cita para la Repblica Argentina. La identificacin de la especie se realiz utilizando caracteres morfolgicos, hbito de crecimiento, la forma de apertura de los zoosporangios, forma de germinacin de las zosporas y el modo de reproduccin. Con respecto a su ciclo de vida, la forma de reproduccin ms frecuente fue la vegetativa, por simple fragmentacin del talo en filamentos cortos. Bajo condiciones adversas se produjeron pseudoramificaciones, a partir de las cuales se originaron nuevos filamentos. La reproduccin asexual fue inducida ''in vitro". Zosporas biflageladas con insercin subapical de los flagelos salieron por un poro lateral. Las zosporas despus de nadar unos minutos retrajeron los flagelos y la germinacin fue estrictamente unipolar. La clula basal present un rudimentario pie de fijacin acompaado de un delicado disco de fijacin mucilaginoso; sucesivas mitosis y citocinesis originaron un filamento, el cual pas a vida planctnica al superar las ocho clulas. La ausencia de un pie de fijacin ha sido considerada hasta el momento un carcter diagnstico del gnero; la presencia de dicho pie en K. nitens sugiere que la validez de este carcter para definir el gnero debera ser revisada. No se verific reproduccin sexual. El nmero cromosmico hallado en K. nitens fue n = 6. Comparaciones entre el nmero cromosmico, el tamao del ncleo y el ancho del filamento con otras especies de Klebsormidium sugiere un nmero bsico x = 6 y a la poliploida como uno de los procesos involucrados en la evolucin de las especies del gnero.
23223191|The phytolith morphology belonging to the leaves of 8 species of Stipa (S. brachychaeta Godr., S. charruana Arechav., S. filiculmis Delile, S. hyalina Nees, S. neesiana Trin. et Rupr., S. papposa Nees, S. philippii Steud. and S. trichotoma Nees), present in the prairies of Entre Ros Province, is described. A new terminology and descriptive methodology to define the phytolith assemblage of each species is used. Cluster analysis (UPGMA) and principal component analysis (PCA) were performed on the data of 49 morphological characters from the 8 phytolith assemblages (OTUs). The results define three groups, the first group include S. filiculmis and S. trichotoma assemblages, the second one with S. hyalina and S. neesiana assemblages and the third one with (S. brachychaeta + S. charruana) + (S. papposa + S. philippii) assemblages. The 8 phytolith assemblages show Arundinoideae affinity (sensu Twiss, 1992), and differ from the typical phytolith assemblages of other Poaceae subfamilies.
23230247|This contribution introduces an inventory of the species of Poaceae from Colombia, and an analysis of the species diversity according to the natural regions of Colombia, the altitudinal gradients, annual rainfall and systematic distribution. The inventory was based on about 5800 vouchers collected throughout 96 fieldtrips along the 10 greatest natural regions of Colombia (Amazon, Andes, Caribbean, Caribbean Islands, Choc Biogeogrfico, Guayana, Orinoquia, Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Cauca valley, and Magdalena valley), on the study of vouchers of different herbaria with important collections for the flora of Colombia (CAUP, COAH, COL, CUVC, CHOCO, HFAB, HUA, HUQ, JAUM, MEDEL, MEXU, MO, NY, PSO, RSA, SI, UDBC, UIS, US, VALLE, and VEN), and on an exhaustive bibliographic research. Poaceae is represented in Colombia by 840 species and 173 genera. There are 74 species and one genus (Agrostopoa) endemic to Colombia. On the other hand, there are 83 species introduced and naturalized, and 50 introduced and cultivated. The richest genera are Paspalum (89 especies), Panicum (42), Festuca (36), Eragrostis (29), Calamagrostis (25), Chusquea (25), Digitaria (24), Axonopus (21), Setaria (20), Cenchrus (18), Poa (17), Muhlenbergia (16), Andropogon (15), Aristida (15), Agrostis (14), Lasiacis (12), Urochloa (12), Pariana (11), Sporobolus (11), Arthrostylidium (10), Cortaderia (10), Nassella (10), Neurolepis (10), and Schizachyrium (10). As partial results of this research, 10 new records were described for the colombian territory. The most diverse Colombian regions are Andes, Orinoquia, Caribbean, and Guayana, with 583, 233, 186, and 179 species, respectively. The Andean Region shows the highest endemism values (57 species). The most diverse altitudinal gradient belongs to the lowlands (below 1200 m s.m.). In Colombia, the subfamilies of Poaceae show a distribution related to the altitude above the sea level and with the rainfall patterns. Thus the Panicoideae are more diverse in the wet lowlands and wet subandean areas, the Pooideae are more diverse in the high Andes (pramos), the Chloridoideae in dry areas, the herbaceous bamboos in the Amazon Region, and the woody bamboos in the Andean Region. The grasses constitute the sixth richest family in the Colombian flora, following the Orchidaceae, Asteraceae, Rubiaceae, Fabaceae, and Melastomataceae. Se presenta un inventario de las especies de Poaceae de Colombia junto con un anlisis de la diversidad especfica de esta familia segn las regiones naturales colombianas, los gradientes de altitud y de precipitaciones, y la distribucin sistemtica. Se realizaron 96 expediciones de campo a las diez grandes regiones naturales de Colombia (Amazonia, Andes, Caribe, Choc Biogeogrfico, Guayana, islas caribeas, Orinoquia, Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, valle del ro Cauca y valle del ro Magdalena) con un muestreo total de alrededor de 5800 ejemplares. Adems, se consultaron colecciones de los herbarios CAUP, COAH, COL, CUVC, CHOCO, HFAB, HUA, HUQ, JAUM, MEDEL, MEXU, MO, NY, PSO, RSA, SI, UDBC, UIS, US, VALLE y VEN, y se realiz una investigacin bibliogrfica exhaustiva. Las Poaceae estn representadas en Colombia por 840 especies y 173 gneros. Se reconocieron 74 especies y un gnero (Agrostopoa) endmicos. Por otra parte, se documentaron 83 especies introducidas-naturalizadas y 50 introducidas-cultivadas. Los gneros ms ricos en especies son Paspalum (89 especies), Panicum (42), Festuca (36), Eragrostis (29), Calamagrostis (25), Chusquea (25), Digitaria (24), Axonopus (21), Setaria (20), Cenchrus (18), Poa (17), Muhlenbergia (16), Andropogon(15), Aristida (15), Agrostis (14), Lasiacis (12), Urochloa (12), Pariana (11), Sporobolus (11), Arthrostylidium (10), Cortaderia (10), Nassella (10), Neurolepis (10) y Schizachyrium (10). Durante el desarrollo de esta investigacin, se descubrieron 10 nuevos registros para la flora colombiana. Laregiones Andina, Orinocense, Caribe y Guayanesa son las ms ricas en especies, con 583, 233, 186 y179 especies, respectivamente. La Regin Andina presenta el mayor nmero de especies endmicas(57 especies). Los gradientes altitudinales ms diversos corresponden a los de las tierras bajas (por debajo de 1200 m s.m.). Al igual que en otras reas tropicales, en Colombia las subfamilias de Poaceae muestran una distribucin asociada con la altura sobre el nivel del mar y/o con la precipitacin; astenemos que las Panicoideae son ms diversas en las tierras bajas y hmedas y en reas abiertas de zonas subandinas, las Pooideae en las tierras alto-andinas (pramos), las Chloridoideae en las reas secas, los bambes herbceos en la Regin Amaznica y los bambes leosos en la Regin Andina. Las Poaceae constituyen la sexta familia ms rica en la flora de Colombia, despus de las Orchidaceae, las Asteraceae, las Rubiaceae, las Fabaceae y las Melastomataceae.
23224222|The section Longirostres, belonging of Rhynchospora subgen. Haplostylis (Cyperaceae), comprises 19 species, mostly extended in warm temperate and tropical regions of America, 2 species are cosmopolitan and R. hookeri grows in Malasia, India and Africa. Rhynchospora careyana, R. corniculata, R. inundata and R. macrostachya are present in North America and the Antilles. Ten species, 2 subspecies and 5 varieties from Austral America, from a total of 13 species, were considered in the present treatment: R. corymbosa, with its varieties: corymbosa, bonariensis, and chacoensis; two new combinations, and stat. nov. are proposed in R. corymbosa: var. angustirostris (Barros) Guagl. and var. legrandii (Kk. ex Barros) Guagl.; other species treated are: R. amazonica and its subsp. guianensis, R. asperula (previously included in R. corymbosa), R. gigantea, R. scutellata, R. trispicata, R. stenocarpa and the cosmopolitan R. triflora. Rhynchospora latibracteata Guagl., is a new species from Brazil and Uruguay; a new name is proposed, R. pedersenii Guagl. The taxa are described and illustrated. Maps of geographic distribution, references to the habitat and keys for identification of American taxa are also given. Rhynchospora sampaioana is excluded from section Longirostres. La seccin Longirostres del gnero Rhynchospora subgnero Haplostylis (Cyperaceae), comprende 19 especies, la mayora extendidas en Amrica tropical y templada, 2 especies cosmopolitas y otra, R. hookeri, est restringida a Malasia, India y Africa. Rhynchospora careyana, R. corniculata, R. inundata y R. macrostachya habitan en Amrica del Norte y las Antillas. De las 13 especies que se encuentran en Amrica austral, se describen en este trabajo, 10 especies, 2 subespecies y 5 variedades. Estos taxones son: R. corymbosa, cosmopolita, y sus variedades: corymbosa, bonariensis y chacoensis; se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones, y stat. nov.: R. corymbosa var. angustirostris (Barros) Guagl. y R. corymbosa var. legrandii (Kk. ex Barros) Guagl. Se tratan tambin R. amazonica y su subsp. guianensis, R. asperula (previamente subordinada a R. corymbosa); R. gigantea, R. scutellata, R. stenocarpa, R. triflora, tambin cosmopolita y R. trispicata. Se describe una nueva especie, R. latibracteata Guagl., de Brasil austral y Uruguay, y se propone un nuevo nombre: R. pedersenii Guagl. Todos los taxones son descriptos y la mayora ilustrados. Se proveen claves para su identificacin y mapas de distribucin geogrfica. R. sampaioana, se excluye de la seccin Longirostres.
23222561|Meiotic behavior of six interspecific hybrids was studied. The hybrids between species with n = 16 chromosomes showed regular meiosis with 16 bivalents; they varied considerably in pollen viability (5-60%). These results suggest the existence of cryptic structural hybridity. The structural divergence between A. quitensis (2n = 32) and the grain species A. caudatus (2n = 32) and A. hypochondriacus (2n = 32) is higher than that observed between A. quitensis (2n = 32) and the wild species A. hybridus (2n = 32). The pollen viability of the A. hybridus (2n = 32)  A. quitensis (2n = 32) hybrid is lower than that observed in its parents; these results suggest that there is some degree of reproductive isolation and consequently they are not co-specific. The A. cruentus (2n = 34)  A. quitensis (2n = 32) hybrid showed 15II + 1III in all cells. This fact supports the hypothesis that n = 17 would have its origin in a n = 16 ancestor through primary trisomy. The hybrid between A. hybridus (2n = 32) and A. spinosus (2n = 34) showed 8II + 17I as the most frequent configuration, suggesting that both species would have a  = 8 genome with high homeology; moreover this fact, together with the secondary association found in all studied species and hybrids, supports the hypothesis that present species (x = 16) of the genus Amaranthus (2n = 32) are polyploids (basic number  = 8) and that consequently n = 16 is a derived basic number. The number n = 17 (x = 17) would have appeared later by primary trisomy. The study of A. dubius (2n = 64)  A. spinosus (2n = 34) hybrid suggest that there would be autosyndetic pairing between A. dubius chromosomes and allosyndetic pairing between A. dubius and A. spinosus chromosomes. It is therefore concluded that A. dubius would be an allooctoploid that would have stabilized at 2n = 64 by an aneuploid process, being A. spinosus one of its parental species.
23225108|A novel technique, mixing surface spreading and air-drying (splash) to study plant chromosomes is used to determine the possibility of a response in the genotype-environment for three legumes. These species are typical of Mexican arid and semi-arid areas, from populations occurring in localities with different climatic conditions. The species studied are Prosopis laevigata and Acacia schaffneri, from Municipio Santiago de Anaya, State of Hidalgo (20 16 N) and P. laevigata and Acacia farnesiana from Municipio Bermejillo, State of Durango (25 49 N). Four features are evaluated: total chromosome length, karyotype, polysomatic frequency, and seed weigth. This study corroborates in Prosopis laevigata a diploid number of 2n=28 and determines statistically significant interpopulation differences (= 0,01) in chromosome total length; the karyotype formula shows no change (2m+10sm+2st); and the polysomatic frequency does not exceed 10%. In the studied species of Acacia, diploid chromosome numbers of 2n=26 are recorded, and no statistically significant interspecific differences (= 0,01) in total chromosome length are found. However, with the use of this mixed technique of spreading and air-drying, different karyotypic formulas, here reported for the first time, are obtained, namely: 9m+2sm+2st for A. farnesiana, and 9m+4sm for A. schaffneri. Both species of Acacia show a similar polysomatic frequency, not surpassing 30%. No significant differences (= 0,01) are found in seed weigth between Prosopis strains and between species of Acacia. The results indicate a kind of adaptation in close relationship with environmental requirements that modify chromosomal characters via natural selection. These environmental requirements do not necessarily affect other nucleotype-dependent characters, such as seed weight. Se emplea una tcnica de extendido en superficie y secado al aire (splash) para cromosomas vegetales a fin de analizar la posible respuesta genotipo-ambiente de tres especies de leguminosas tpicas de las zonas ridas y semiridas mexicanas, ubicadas en poblaciones con caractersticas climticas diferentes. Las especies estudiadas fueron Prosopis laevigata y Acacia schaffneri del municipio de Santiago de Anaya, estado de Hidalgo (20 16' N) y P. laevigata y Acacia farnesiana del municipio de Bermejillo, estado de Durango (2549' N). Los parmetros evaluados fueron las longitudes cromosmicas totales, el cariotipo, la frecuencia de polisomata y el peso de las semillas. En Prosopis laevigata se corrobora un 2n=28 y diferencias interpoblacionales estadsticamente significativas (=0,01) en las longitudes cromosmicas totales, sin modificacin de la frmula cariotpica (2m+10sm+2st) con frecuencia de polisomata que no rebas el 10%. En las especies del gnero Acacia se registraron nmeros cromosmicos diploides 2n=26 sin diferencias interespecficas estadsticamente significativas (= 0,01) en las longitudes cromosmicas totales; no obstante se obtuvieron frmulas cariotpicas diferentes, reportadas por primera vez empleando una tcnica de extendido y secado al aire: 9m+4sm para A. schaffneri y 9m+2sm+2st para A. farnesiana. En ambas especies la polisomata tuvo una frecuencia similar sin rebasar el 30%. Para Prosopis y Acacia no se encontraron diferencias significativas (= 0,01) en relacin al peso de la semilla. Los resultados obtenidos sealan una clase de adaptacin en estrecha relacin con exigencias ambientales que modifican caractersticas cromosmicas va seleccin natural. Estas exigencias no necesariamente afectan otras caractersticas dependientes del nucleotipo. como el peso de las semillas.
23218936|Chromosome studies on Anthericum ciliatum var. argentinense (Liliaceae). The somatic (2n = 32) and meiotic chromosomes (n = 16) of Anthericum ciliatum (Kunth in H. B. K.) Sprengel var. argentinense Hauman have been studied for the first time. The karyotype is composed of 11 m pairs + 3 sm pairs + 2 st pairs; pair 2 bears macrosatellites. Results are compared with previous chromosome reports for Liliales, mainly regarding the taxonomic status of this variety. Our findings tend to support the point of view of considering this entity as independent from A. ciliatum.
23218135|Geographic distribution and possible polytypism in Bulnesia sarmientoi. The geographical distribution of Bulnesia sarmientoi is extended to Brazil (Pantanal of Mato Grosso) on the basis of the works of Hoehne (1936) and Prance & Schaller (1982). Published and unpublished reports indicate that Bolivian populations would have bluish flowers. Since Argentine populations. have whitish flowers the possibility of polytypism for flower colour is indicated.
23218064|As a commemoration of the centennial of Charles Darwin's death a brief account of his life and works is presented. His family background, youth, studies, the voyage of the Beagle around the world and his monumental production despite his illness is considered. Doubtless his major contribution was to convince his contemporaries that evolution did occur and that natural selection was the factor responsible for evolutionary change and adaptation. His pioneering studies of ecology, psychology, ethology, floral biology, plant movements, hormonal action, inbreeding depression, etc., are briefly reviewed as well as his major geological contributions, such as the origin of atolons and coral reefs and his correct estimate of the age of Earth. His work and personality, which makes him one of the most important scientists and thinkers of all times, undoubtedly will be admired and remembered for many future generations.
23218910|Chromosome numbers and observations at meiosis are reported for six species belonging to six genera of Bambusoideae. The numbers include counts in four species that were previously unknown cytologically: Anomochloa marantoidea Brongn. (n = 18), Chusquea oxylepsis (Hackel) Ekman (n = 22), Pariana lanceolata Trin. (n = 22), and Raddia sp (n = 11).
23227135|Borreria santacruciana and Mitracarpus bicrucis from Bolivia are described and illustrated. B. santacruciana is close to B. wunschmannii, but differs for having inconspicuous pubescence of apressed hairs, leaves 7-17 mm long, glomerules with an involucre of 2-4 bracts of 7-13 mm long. Mitracarpus bicrucis is enterely glabrous, notable for its stipular sheath with only one lacina and seeds with a cross-shaped furrow on both surfaces. Dos especies nuevas de Bolivia. Borreria santacruciana y Mitracarpus bicrucis, se describen e ilustran. B. santacruciana es afn a B. wunschmanii, pero difiere por tener una pubescencia inconspicua de pelos adpresos, hojas de 7-17 mm long., y glomrulos con 2-4 brcteas de 7-13 mm long. Mitracarpus bicrucis es enteramente glabro, notable por su vaina estipular con una sola lacinia y por el surco en forma de cruz en ambas caras de la semilla.
23223184|The structure and anatomy of floral trichomes and nectaries of 4 species of Tecomeae (Bignoniaceae) are studied. All taxa exhibit pluricellular glandular trichomes of different forms and distribution in calyx, corolla and ovary wall and bear a conspicuous floral nectary except for Catalpa bignonioides Walter. In this species the floral nectary is reduced and appears to be a vestigial organ without a secretory function. The nectary of Argylia radiata (L.) D. Don, Podranea ricasoliana (Tanfani) Sprague and Pandorea jasminoides (Lindl.) K. Schum. comprises epidermis and secretory parenchyma without intercellular spaces. Secretory tissue is supplied by phloem. Raised nectarial stomata were found only in P. ricasoliana, whereas they are at the same level of the epidermis in the remainder species. Extrafloral nectaries were found in flowers of P. jasminoides and P. ricasoliana in the outer surface of the calyx. Those of P. jasminoides are cupular and vascularized while those of P. ricasoliana are patelliform and nonvascularized.
23225170|Lippia sect. Rhodolippia is characterized mainly by its coloured bracts which are dispersed with the fruit. In the so far unpublished revision of this section 34 species were recognized and 32 synonyms for 14 species at specific and intra-specific level were included. Characters taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are briefly discussed in the present contribution. Lippia sect. Rhodolippia se caracteriza por apresentar brcteas coloridas, que so dispersadas com o fruto. Na reviso desta seo foram reconhecidas 34 espcies e 32 novos sinnimos para 14 espcies incluindo txons infra-especficos. Seus caracteres, notas taxonmicas e nomenclaturais so brevemente discutidos em la presente nota.
23225104|Observations on the thallus of Chaetophora elegans are presented. Both the prostrate and the erect systems are described at optical level, being the present the first accurate electron microscopical study made in the genus on the vegetative ultrastructure. Moreover, the distribution of this species is extended in Argentina. Se describe el talo de Chaetophora elegans precisando la morfologa de los sistemas postrado y erguido, se realiza el primer estudio detallado de la ultraestructura vegetativa en el gnero y se ampla la distribucin de la especie en la Repblica Argentina.
23222514|Xeromorphic leaf characters of Nassauvia lagascae (Compositae). The xeromorphic leaf characters of Nassauvia lagascae (Don) Meigen and its varieties, N. lagascae var. lanata (Phil.) Skottsberg and N. lagascae var. globosa Skottsberg, referred to section Caloptilium of subgenus Nassauvia, are described. All are herbaceous perennial plants, forming loose hemispherical mats on stony, gravel soils of the high Andean mountains at 3300- 4000 m above sea level. The adaptative characters show a reduction in leaf surface (microphyllia) and a ribbed and furrowed lamina at the upper, more exposed adaxial part. These ribs are formed by compact adaxial caps of sclerenchyma, as girders between vascular bundles and the adaxial epidermis. The number of vascular bundles increases from the apical to the basal part of the lamina, 1 at the top, 5-9 at the ribbed zone and 10-13 at the leaf sheath. The mesophyll is composed by a palisade parenchyma of 8-9 layers of small, oval cells compactly arranged and 3-4 layers of spongy parenchyma with conspicuous arm cells. An extensive air cavity is sometimes formed very early in leaf development between the abaxial epidermis and the adjacent mesophyll. The epidermal characters include thick external periclinal walls and conspicuous pitted anticlinal walls, stomata protected in the adaxial furrows and sunken in cavities produced by a pronounced overarching and outbulging of its neighboring cells; these cavities observed in surface view are limited by peristomatal rims. In old leaves a progressive thickening of the external and internal periclinal walls of the epidermal cells including the occlusive ones occur; likewise a partial occlussion of the pores and substomatal chambers is produced by the neighboring cells of stomata and as a consequence numerous non functional stomata, some of them lignified, alternate at this stage with the functional ones. A dense indumentum is present in N. lagascae var. lanata and N. l. var. globosa, whereas in N. l. var. lagascae the pubescence is sparse. Therefore these plants possess a highly specialized leaf structure with clear xerophytic adaptations. A discussion of all the mentioned characters in comparison to other xeromorphic anatomical strategies established by several authors in different plants is also provided. Brief comparative references to N. revoluta, a species with a rather similar leaf anatomy previously described by other authors, is also given.
23212169|El autor expone las dificultades que presenta la fijacin de las fechas exactas de publicacin de los ocho tomos de la Flora de Chile, de Claudio Gay. Dada la importancia que dichas fechas tienen para cuestiones de prioridad en la nomenclatura cientfica, el autor ha tratado de reunir todos los antecedentes disponibles para establecer cundo salieron a luz las distintas entregas de la obra. Ha utilizado la biografa de Gay de Barros Arana y diversos comentarios bibliogrficos europeos de la poca, para sus deducciones, que concreta citando todas las fuentes en el caso de cada volumen y dando luego un resumen final de los resultados. Hay varias divergencias importantes con respecto a las fecbas de cartula. En consecuencia tenemos: Tomo 1, la primera entrega 1845, las tres restantes 1846; tomo 2, 1847; tomo 3, probablemente 1848-49; tomo 4, probablemente 1849; tomo 5, fines de 1849 hasta mediados de 1852; tomo 6, 1853  1854; tomo 7, terminado recin en 1854; tomo 8, principios de 1854.  A. B.
23222954|Flower phases and flower visitors of Vigna longifolia (Benth.) Verdcourt were studied in Parque Rivadavia (Concordia, Entre Ros province, Argentina). Flowers are flag-blossom in structure, although the alighting place here is the left-hand wing petal. Standard and wings (yellow) are atractive to visitors. Under UV lighting each floral part exhibits a different colour (in violet range) which changes from phase to phase. Four floral phases were recognized from anthesis to wilting (24 hs.). In the second and third phases the stigma is receptive. Pollen is presented in the tuft of hairs of the style, is abundant and reacts positively to peroxidases in all phases, and its main cytoplasmic reserve is starch. Pollenkitt, sufficiently abundant so as to maintain pollen grains pasted together, contains lipids and proteins. Pollen viability is 84%. Amongst the three flower visitors observed, Megachile sp. is the only one that triggers the pollen transfering and stigma exposing mechanism (nototribic, between head and thorax). Ants (Camponotus sp.) visited extrafloral nectaries continually, keeping flower visitors away most of the time. The development of the ovary in flowers isolated for 24 and 48 hs. and the pollen tube growth in those isolated for 48 hs., as well as the analysis of the P/O relationship suggest that this species is a facultative xenogamous-facultative autogamous. However, the seed production allows us to conclude that some incompatibility system should exist (fecundation efficiency: 51%).
23230222|Herbertia zebrina, a new species from Serra do Sudeste, Rio Grande do Sul State (Brazil) is described and illustrated, and its taxonomic affinities are discussed. Comments about geographic distribution, conservation and a key to the Brazilian species of Herbertia are also provided. Se describe e ilustra Herbertia zebrina, una nueva especie para Serra do Sudeste, Rio Grande do Sul (Brasil), y se discuten sus relaciones taxonmicas. Se incluyen comentarios sobre su distribucin geogrfica y conservacin, y se provee una clave para identificar las especies brasileas de Herbertia.
23211712|Lythraceae Argentinae. Addenda II.  New data on the distribution of certain species are given, thus increasing their known range. Cuphea hirticaulis Koehne, C. thymoides Cham. et Schlecht. var. levis St. Hil. and C. Glaziovii Koehne are added to the Argentine flora. The following species and variety are described as new: Cuphea hirticaulis. C. hirsutissima, C. correntina and C. persistens var. formosana. A new key to the Argentine Cupheae is included, brought up to date to include the species and variety herein described.
23223253|The commonly used name Tilia moltkei "Spth ex Schneider" (1909), was invalidly published, without a description and with a leaf illustration which appeared after the limitation date (1908) of Art 44.1. It was applied to hybrid specimens grown at Spth's nursery, near Berlin, Germany, ca. 1875 and is currently used with an incorrect author. The combination Tilia xmoltkei was done for hybrids of Tilia americana L.  T. petiolaris DC. The parentage accepted here accepted is Tilia americana L.  T. tomentosa Moench subsp. petiolaris (DC) So, and the correct designation for this rank is Tilia viridis (Bayer) Simonk. nothosubsp. moltkei (Dippel) Xifreda comb. nov. As no type was mentioned, a neotype is designated from materials collected at the Spth Arboretum, which is conserved in BHU.
23227133|Batrachospermum atrum var. puiggarianum was collected for the first time in Buenos Aires province. The identification of samples was based on microscopic morphology and chromosomic number analyses of each generations of the life cycle under culture conditions. The thalli were studied with optical microscopy, and karyology according to carmine acetic technique. Life cycle showed three generations: an haploid gamethophyte, a diploid carposporophyte and the last Chantransia diploid phase. Gametophytes exhibited separate whorls of densely compressed primary branches, some of those branches bearing spermatangia or carpogonium. Internodes were constituted by globose axial cells and cortical cells. The ovoidal carposporophytes were formed by gonimoblastic filaments bearing terminal carposporangia. The Chantransia stage was characterized for short filaments of few cells. The studied material showed a chromosome haploid number n = 4, and diploid number 2n = 8. Se coleccion Batrachospermum atrum var. puiggarianum por primera vez en la provincia de Buenos Aires. La identificacin de las muestras se bas en el anlisis de la morfologa microscpica y en el nmero cromosmico de cada una de las generaciones de su ciclo de vida bajo cultivo. Los talos se estudiaron con microscopio ptico, y la cariologa, por medio de la tcnica de carmn actico. El ciclo de vida present tres generaciones: una gametoftica haploide, una carposporfitica diploide que origin la ltima fase Chantransia diploide. Los talos gametfitos estuvieron formados por verticilos separados por zonas internodales, cada uno de ellos constituidos por ramas primarias densamente comprimidas. Entre stas se observaron ramas portadoras de espermatangios y de carpogonios. Las zonas internodales estuvieron constituidas por clulas corticales y axiales. Los carposporfitos ovoideos estuvieron formados por filamentos gonimoblsticos portadores de carposporangios terminales. El estado Chantransia se caracteriz por presentar filamentos cortos con pocas clulas. El material estudiado present un nmero haploide n = 4 y diploide 2n = 8.
90005704|A new species of
23612323|The presence of Anadenanthera colubrina var. colubrina for the Argentinean flora is confirmed. This variety is distinguished by three morphological characters: structure of the inflorescence, fruit characteristics and venation type of the folioles, being the latter very useful when studying vegetative material. The variety colubrina inhabits the same areas as var. cebil. A distribution map, illustrations and a key to identify the varieties are presented, and lectotypes are designated for Piptadenia macrocarpa and Niopa. Se confirma la presencia de Anadenanthera colubrina var. colubrina para la flora argentina. Esta variedad se distingue por tres caracteres morfolgicos: la estructura de la inflorescencia, caractersticas del fruto y tipo de venacin de los foliolos, siendo ste ltimo muy eficaz cuando se estudia material estril. La var. colubrina cohabita con la var. cebil. Se presenta una clave para identificar las variedades, ilustraciones y mapa de distribucin y se designan lectotipos para Piptadenia macrocarpa y Niopa.
23223249|Five species of lignicolous marine fungi from the coast of Buenos Aires province (Argentina) are described. Haligena salina Farrant & Jones, Nautosphaeria cristaminuta Jones and Ocostaspora apilongissima Jones, Johnson & Moss, were collected from driftwood and intertidal wood. Cumulospora marina I. Schmidt and Helicascus kanaloanus Kohlmeyer were found growing on Spartina densiflora Brongn. N. cristaminuta is a new record for Argentina, while the remaining ones are new records for South America.
23222965|Azorella was partially treated in several regional floristic papers in the last three decades. However, there has been no comprehensive taxonomic synthesis of the genus to date. The purpose of this paper is to repair this lack. This synopsis provides: 1) A new infrageneric classification based on the phenetic affinities among species just established in a previous paper. The genus is divided into four sections: Sect. Azorella with two series: Ser. Azorella and Ser. Squamulosae (Hauman) Martnez, Sect. Spinosae nov. sect., Sect. Ciliatae Hauman, and Sect. Cirrhosae Hauman emend. Martnez. 2) Keys for recognition of sections, series, and species. 3) A list of the species, including for each a list of synonyms, references to accessible iconography, and common names. 4) Distribution maps for the sections and individual species. 5) A list of excluded taxa.
23230240|Miconia petropolitana is reported for the first time for the Argentinean flora and a lectotipification for this species is proposed. The species is described and illustrated and a map with the geographical distribution is provided. Miconia elegans is excluded from Argentina and an identification key for the species is included. Se cita por primera vez a Miconia petropolitana para la flora argentina y se propone la lectotipificacin de esta especie. Se presenta una descripcin, una ilustracin y un mapa con la distribucin geogrfica. Se excluye a Miconia elegans de Argentina y se incluye una clave de identificacin para las especies.
23212951|"Contributions on the knowledge of the austral species of Grammitis. Anatomy of Grammitis magellanica Desv., and its form nana." In the first part of this paper, the author reports some data on the geographic distribution of the Grammitis billardieri Willd. complex. This group, as constructed here, contains six species, two of them living in the southern part of Chile and Argentina. This complex presents an austral distribution, entirely around the Antarctic, with a remarkable insular character. Also, the author considers Grammitis magellanica as a different species from the Australian plants. In the second part, the author studies the anatomy of Grammitis magellanica and its form nana, giving special emphasis on the rhizome and stipe structure. Grammitis magellanica presents a dorsiventral rhizome, with a dissected solenostele, with a large ventral perforation. In the stipe, only one vascular strand, with two terminal protoxylematic groups, is present. These anatomic patterns fortify the seggregation of the Grammitidaceae as a natural family. Observations on the venation pattern, epidermis, stomata and hairs, are also given. The systematic status of the form nana, under the light furnished by the comparative data (size of stomata, epidermal cells and spores), is discussed. According to these, the presence of polyploid series is suggested.
23223221|The floristic composition and species richness of the western (moister) and eastern (dryer) areas of the high Andean region of Nahuel Huapi National Park (Argentina) were compared. Species lists were compiled for the two sectors from collections in the alpine area of 20 mountains of the Park (10 from each sector) from 1993 to 1997. A total of 232 species, 111 genera and 48 families were recorded. Asteraceae (with 70 species), Poaceae (17), Apiaceae (12), Fabaceae (11) and Scrophulariaceae (11) are the predominant families in the area, and Senecio (with 22 species), Nassauvia (12), Acaena (7), and Perezia (7) are the best represented genera. There are six endemic species in this protected area. The most frequent life forms are perennial herbs and subshrubs, followed by shrubs, and annual species are nearly inexistent. Species richness was found to increase in relation to the precipitation decrease from west to east: 149 species were found in the moister western sector and 220 in the dryer eastern sector. Some families and genera are more represented or appear exclusively in one of the two sectors. We discuss current ecological and past historical factors that could explain this variation in species diversity and composition.
41825699|Two new species of Sapotaceae from Costa Rica are described: Chromolucuma cespedesiiformis and Pouteria spicata, and their relationships with allied species are discussed. A key for the Neotropical species of Chromolucuma and a key for the species oPouteria reported in Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama are included. Se describen dos nuevas especies de Sapotaceae para Costa Rica: Chromolucuma cespedesiiformis y Pouteria spicata, y se discuten las relaciones con las especies afines. Se incluye una clave para las especies de Chromolucuma del Neotrpico y una clave para las especies de Pouteria presentes en Nicaragua, Costa Rica y Panam.
23218124|Some Craspedomonadophycideae (Chrysophyceae) from the Limay River basin (Argentina). Seven taxa of the Craspedomonadophycideae (Monosigaceae and Salpingoecaceae) found in the Limay River basin are described. Sphaeroeca laxa uarrera y Stelexomonas dichotoma var. arroyitensis Echenique are newly described taxa.
23223196|Meiotic and/or mitotic chromosome numbers were determined and observations on meiotic behavior were made in 104 accessions belonging to 75 species and 32 genera distributed in 10 tribes of the Asteraceae. One genus (Picrosia), 21 species and 2 varietes are investigated cytologically for the first time. These are as follows, tribe Mutisieae: Chaptalia graminifolia (Dus.) Cabrera and Ch. pilloselloides (Vahl.) Baker (2n = ca. 48); tribe Cichorieae: Picrosia longifolia Don (n = 7 II); tribe Astereae: Baccharis effusa Griseb. (n = 9 II), B. flabellata Hook. et Arn. (n = 9 II), B. flabellata var. argentina (Heer.) Ariza (n = 9 II), B. rhexioides H. B. K. (n = 9 II), B. tucumanensis Hook. et Arn. (n = 9 II), Grindelia buphthalmoides DC. (2n = 12); tribe Senecioneae: Senecio flagellisectus Griseb. (n = 20 II), S. grisebachii Baker var. grisebachii Baker (n = 20 II), S. lorentzii Griseb. (n = 20 II); tribe Heliantheae: Calea clematidea Baker (n = 19 II), Cosmos marginatus Klatt (n = 24 II), Spilanthes alpestris Griseb. (n = ca. 14 II), Tridax paraguayensis Kuntze (n = 18 II); tribe Eupatorieae: Eupatorium buniifolium Hook. et Arn. (2n = 20 + 2B), E. lorentzii Hieron. (n = ca. 17 II), E. grosidentatum Hieron. (n = 10 II), Ophryosporus macrodon Griseb. (n = 10 II), Pterocaulon lanatum O. K. (n = 11 II), Stevia aff. effusa Hieron. (n = 11 II) and S. maimarensis (Hieron.) Cabrera (n = 11 II). Different chromosome numbers to those reported previously in the literature were found for Aspilia montevidensis (Spreng.) Kuntze var. setosa (Griseb.) Cabrera (n = 11 II), Liabum polymnoides R.E. Fries (n = 15 II) and Eupatorium saltense Hieron. (n = ca. 26 II) The karyotypes of Hieracium tandilense Sleumer, Baccharis effusa Griseb., B. spicata (Lam.) Baillon, Eupatorium buniifolium Hook. et Arn. and Stevia satureaiefolia (Lam.) Schultz-Bip. are described for the first time. The significance of some of the results in relation to taxonomical and evolutionary problems is discussed.
23223860|Morphological observations on pollen grains of Alvaradoa subovata Cronquist (Simaroubaceae) and Roupala brasiliensis Klotzch (Proteaceae) obtained from TEM complement previous studies of Xifreda & Sanso (1998). With the aim of giving details of the morphology and accuracy to the descriptive terminology, exine stratification is described and new observations on pollen grains obtained from SEM are added. Se dan a conocer observaciones con microscopio electrnico de transmisin (MET), que complementan los estudios previos realizados con microscopio electrnico de barrido (MEB) sobre la morfologa polnica de Alvaradoa subovata Cronquist (Simaroubaceae) y Roupala brasiliensis Klotzch (Proteaceae) (Xifreda & Sanso, 1998). Se describe la estratificacin de la exina y se comunican nuevas observaciones con MEB sobre el polen de estas dos especies arbreas, con la finalidad de aclarar su morfologa y dar precisin a la terminologa descriptiva utilizada en Xifreda & Sanso (1998).
23222577|Alstroemeria isabellana Herbert (1837) is the correct epithet for the taxon described as Bomarea stricta Pax (1890), which is a synonym. The range of dispersion of this native beautiful species has increased from the southern Brazil, Rio Grande do Sul province, to Paraguay, NW Uruguay and northern Argentina.
23222539|Revision of the Argentine species of Cerastium L. (Caryophyllaceae). I. Ten species of the genus Cerastium were analyzed, using mainly material from the Argentinian herbaria. Seven species are native and found in the following places: Cerastium junceum Moeschl, in sandy and saline soils, C. humifusum Cambess., in non-saline wet places of Buenos Aires, Entre Ros, Crdoba and San Juan provinces; C. rivulariastrum Moeschl & Pedersen, north of Rio Colorado; C. rivulare Cambess. in Misiones and Corrientes provinces; C. commersonianum Sr., eastern part of Corrientes, Entre Ros and Misiones provinces; C. mollissimum Poiret, perennial on the sierras of Buenos Aires and Crdoba; and C. tucumanense Pax, from the NW provinces. Three species are naturalised: C. fontanum Baumg. subsp. vulgare (Hartman) Greuter & Burdet, in the South Andes, in cold and wet places; C. arvense L., in the Andes between Salta and Tierra del Fuego and Malvinas Islands and C. glomeratum Thuill. in modified soils, in the whole country. Cerastium tucumanense is here lectotypified. All the species are described, mapped (excluding C. glomeratum) and a key is included for their identification.
darwiniana.3.2.201|A new subspecies from Jujuy (Argentina),
23215043|The present paper is an anatomical study of the leaf nectaries of 65 species of Byttneria (Sterculiaceae) which comprise the whole area of the genus and its morphological variations. The first bibliographic account on this topic is that of Nieuwenhuis (1907) who describes the nectaries of B. pilosa; later Zimmermann (1937) mentions the nectaries of B. pilosa and B. cordata. Finally Hall illustrates the external aspect of these glands in B. dahomensis, B. ivorensis and B. guinensis. This paper includes an analysis of the bibliography on nectaries taking special account of the nectaries of Malvaceae, which are very similar to those of Byttneria. For the anatomical study herbarium material was used and for the ontogenetical one, fresh material of cultivated plants. A list of the samples studied is given at the end of every species description. In Byttneria, there is generally one nectary per leaf, situated on the underside of it, on the central vein. In certain species, there are 3 or 5 nectaries per leaf, which are distributed on the principal veins. In excepcional cases, there are also nectaries on the petioles. This genus presents 2 fundamental types of nectaries, which are named respectively, uniapertured and multiapertured. The former present, when examined superficially, a single aperture bordered by lip-shaped prominences.
90005717|Congener species with incomplete reproductive barriers that coexist along environmental gradients may be prone to ecological divergence, in spite of the potential for hybridization in sympatry. We analyzed distribution patterns of isozymes, plastid, and nuclear DNA sequences at regional and local scales in three timber
23225124|Information about fungi of the orders Cyttariales, Helotiales, Ostropales, Pezizales, Rhytismatales and Thelebolales (Discomycetes) collected in Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego and adjacent antarctic areas (Patagonia), and information about their associated organisms was located, abstracted, keyboarded, edited and validated. The largest single information sources were dried reference collections in Argentina and elsewhere, and published information as listed in this work's bibliography. Other records were derived from fresh collections, other reference collections and field observations. Information is stored in a computerized system of relational databases for taxonomic, nomenclatural, bibliographic and biological observations data. This system allows storage of parallel data in different languages, and distinguishes original information from current opinion about what that information may mean. In the Biological Records Database, 5029 separate records were created for observations on the spatial and temporal occurrence of living organisms in the region. Of these 2613 were Discomycetes, with records derived as follows: Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego (Argentina, 1854; Chile, 687); adjacent antarctic areas (72). Excluding synonyms, these Discomycetes represented 361 species and subspecific taxa (160 genera, 22 families and 7 orders) the remaining records were organisms associated with these Discomycetes as follows: 163 of animals (8 species, 8 genera, 6 families and 5 orders); 2 of chromistans; 223 of fungi (52 species, 54 genera, 26 families and 13 orders); 2028 of plants (159 species, 122 genera, 59 families and 39 orders). Each of these different taxa (and each known synonym) is represented by a separate record in the Taxonomic & Nomenclatural Database. Information about relevant bibliographic sources is stored in more than 120 records in the Bibliographic Database. The databases were used to produce the present checklist of names given to Discomycetes observed in Patagonia. A typical entry comprises the fungus name, author(s), and information on the original place of publication of the name, together with any known synonyms (classification at generic level and above largely follows the 9th edition of Ainsworth & Bisby's Dictionary of the Fungi, Kirk et al., 2001). This is followed by basic information derived from the databases: the number of times the fungus has been recorded from the region, the date of the earliest record from the region, months in which the fungus has been observed in the region, geographical distribution by country (and within countries by an appropriate subnational division), associated organism and substrata, a list of reference collection numbers identifying preserved specimens and sometimes living isolates of each fungus, and bibliographic citations identifying any published sources of the information. The status of each name is indicated and, where appropriate, synonyms are provided and cross-indexed. The list is accompanied by an explanatory introduction, a taxonomic index, indexes by countries and subnational divisions of the region, by taxonomy of associated organisms and by substrata, and a bibliography. No new taxa are described. Apart from four new nomenclatural combinations, no new scientific names of any sort are knowingly introduced. La informacin brindada en este catlogo consiste en registrar las especies de hongos pertenecientes a los rdenes Cyttariales, Helotiales, Ostropales, Pezizales, Rhytismatales y Thelebolales (Discomycetes) coleccionadas en Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego y reas adyacentes antrticas (Patagonia). Adems datos sobre sus organismos asociados fueron localizados, resumidos, validados y editados. Las fuentes de informacin fueron las exsiccatae depositadas en colecciones de Argentina y otros pases y de las publicaciones listadas en la bibliografa. Otros registros derivaron de observaciones de campo sobre material fresco y colecciones de referencia. La informacin fue acumulada en un sistema computarizado relacional de datos taxonmicos, nomenclaturales, bibliogrficos, de distribucin geogrfica y de observaciones biolgicas. Este sistema permite la acumulacin de datos paralelos en diferentes idiomas, y distingue la informacin original de la opinin corriente de lo que puede significar esa informacin. En la Biological Records Database, 5029 registros fueron creados para observaciones sobre la ocurrencia temporal y espacial de los organismos vivos de la regin. De stos, 2613 corresponden a registros de colecciones de Discomycetes de la Patagonia y Tierra del Fuego, con la siguiente distribucin: 1854 para a la Argentina, 687 para Chile y 72 para reas adyacentes antrticas. Excluyendo los sinnimos, los Discomycetes estn representados por 361 especies y taxones subespecficos (160 gneros, 22 familias y 7 rdenes). Los registros remanentes fueron de organismos asociados con los Discomycetes: 163 animales (8 especies, 8 gneros, 6 familias y 5 rdenes); 2 Chromista; 223 hongos (52 especies, 54 gneros, 26 familias y 13 denes); 2028 plantas (159 especies, 122 gneros, 59 familias y 39 rdenes). Cada uno de estos taxones (y cada sinnimo conocido) est representado por un registro separado en la Base de Datos Taxonmica y Nomenclatural. La informacin sobre fuentes relevantes de bibliografa fue acumulada en ms de 120 registros en la Base de Datos de Bibliografa. Un registro tpico consiste en: nombre del hongo; autor(es); lugar original de la publicacin del nombre; sinnimos conocidos. La clasificacin a nivel genrico y superior sigue la 9th edicin de Ainsworth & Bisby's Dictionary of Fungi (Kirk et al., 2001). A estos datos sigue la informacin bsica derivada de la base de datos: nmero de veces que la especie ha sido coleccionada en el rea; fecha del primer registro para el rea; meses en los cuales el hongo ha sido observado en el rea; distribucin geogrfica por pas, y dentro del pas por subdivisiones apropiadas (Regin, Provincia, Departamento); organismos asociados y sustrato, una lista de referencia de los nmeros de coleccin de los especmenes preservados y citas bibliogrficas de las fuentes de informacin y del identificador de cada coleccin. Se indica el status de cada nombre y, cuando es posible, los sinnimos y un ndice cruzado. Esta lista se acompaa de una introduccin, ndice taxonmico, ndice por pas (y subdivisiones polticas), ndice taxonmico de los organismos asociados, ndice de sustratos y bibliografa. No se describen taxones nuevos, aunque s cuatro nuevas combinaciones.
23226695|This is the first complete, floristic analysis of the Asteraceae family from an extense, endangered, subtropical area of Argentina, covered by the Misiones Province. This study reports 88 genera, 345 species and 16 infraspecific taxa of Asteraceae from the two phytogeographic units of Misiones Province: "Selvas Mixtas" District, and "de los Campos" District. Nine species are recorded for first time, and 23 are included as probable records for this area. This paper includes keys for tribes, genera, species and infraspecific taxa, as well as a short discussion about distribution of tribes, genera and habits in relation to political departments or phytogeographic districts. Habit, status, distribution, habitat, vernacular names, uses, and vouchers are given for every taxon. Thirty two taxa are illustrated for the first time. Este es el primer anlisis florstico completo de la familia Asteraceae para un rea subtropical de Argentina, extensa y en peligro de conservacin, delimitada por la provincia de Misiones. Este estudio registra 88 gneros, 345 especies y 16 taxones infraespecficos de la familia Asteraceae para las dos unidades fitogeogrficas de esta provincia: los distritos de las Selvas Mixtas y el de Los Campos. Nueve especies son mencionadas por primera vez para el rea y 23 son consideradas como probables. Se incluyen claves para la identificacin de las tribus, los gneros, las especies y los taxones infraespecficos, como as tambin una discusin breve sobre la distribucin de las tribus, los gneros y los hbitos en relacin a los departamentos polticos o los distritos fitogeogrficos. Para cada taxn se cita el hbito, el status, la distribucin, el hbitat, los nombres vernculos, usos y un ejemplar de referencia. Se ilustran por primera vez 32 taxones.
23218134|On the correct scientific name of the scented camomile (Matricaria recutita L., Asteraceae). The correct scientific name for the "manzanilla" or scented camomile, cultivated in Argentina is validated (Matricaria recutita L., Asteraceae). A brief account regarding the controversies on its nomenclature is given.
23226840|Gracilaria chilensis (Gracilariales) is an agarophyte red alga belonging to class Florideophyceae. The purpose of this study was to describe the hair formation mechanism. Thalli were maintained in culture with enriched seawater under controlled conditions of light and temperature. Hair formation was induced on portions of thalli growing in a nitrogen-free culture medium. Light (bright field) microscopy, transmission and scanning electron microscopy techniques were used. Hairs develop from large ovoid hair-producing cortical cells (HPCs). These cells are multinucleate, contain small plastids, and abundant endoplasmic reticulum apically positioned. Each hair begins as a protuberance initially covered by a multilaminar wall, this is, in turn, ruptured along with the thallus wall as the protuberance elongates. Hairs are formed when cytokinesis occurs at the base of the protuberance. An asymmetric pit plug is formed between the hair's base and the HPC. Hairs are unicellular, with a vacuole and numerous nuclei. They have an active growth, and leave a concentric scar on the wall after detachment. Hair formation mechanism in G. chilensis is also compared with that observed in other species of the same class. In nitrogen-free culture media, the thallus of G. chilensis grows less, but the number of hairs increases. Gracilaria chilensis es un alga roja agarfita perteneciente a la clase Florideophyceae. En este estudio se describe la formacin de pelos en talos mantenidos en cultivo en agua de mar enriquecida, bajo condiciones controladas de luz y temperatura. La induccin de los pelos fue realizada colocando porciones de talos en un medio de cultivo carente de compuestos nitrogenados. Se emplearon tcnicas de microscopa ptica y electnica de transmisin y barrido. Los pelos se desarrollan a partir de clulas corticales ovoides grandes. Estas clulas formadoras de pelos (CFPs) son multinucleadas, poseen pequeos plstidos y una abundante red de retculo endoplasmtico de disposicin apical. La formacin de los pelos comienza con el desarrollo de una protuberancia, inicialmente cubierta por una pared multilaminar, la cual se rompe junto con la pared del talo, con la consecuente elongacin de la protuberancia. El pelo queda establecido cuando se produce una citocinesis en la base de la protuberancia, formndose una conexin citoplasmtica obliterada o "pit plug" asimtrica entre la base del pelo y la CFP. Los pelos son unicelulares, poseen una vacuola y numerosos ncleos. Tienen un crecimiento activo dejando, al caerse, una cicatriz de forma concntrica en la pared. Se compara este proceso con el descrito en otras especies de la clase. En medios de cultivo carentes de nitrgeno, el crecimiento del talo de G. chilensis fue menor, aumentando el nmero de pelos.
23222527|A comparative study of diploid and tetraploid populations of Grindelia chiloensis (Asteraceae). Two cytotipes have been found in G. chiloensis, a resinous perennial herb from Argentina. A comparative morphological, cytological and phenological study was made. Both ploidy levels can be distinguished by morphological and phenological characters.
23222544|Notes on Adesmia IV. (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae). In this note Adesmia fabrisii Burkart is considered a synonym of A. stenocaulon Hauman and A. jilesiana Burkart is reported for the first time for the Argentinian flora.
23223206|The presence of Gloxinia gymnostoma Griseb. and Gloxinia nematanthodes (Kuntze) Wiehler for NW Argentina is reviewed. The first, has been previously cited with mixed materials and in consequence, with incorrect delimitation. Geographical distribution, morphological differences and pollen grain characters between both Argentinian entities of Gloxinia, are briefly pointed out. G. gymnostoma is here lectotypified.
23218079|The diversity found in the foliar architecture of the species of the genus Prosopis could be adequately expressed through six models with four variants. These models have been established according to the form and symmetry of the leaflets, the number of venous traces in the secondary pulvinules, and the venation characters determined by the behaviour of the primary and secondary veins. The characters of the venation of the major order have proved to of little taxonomic importance due to their strong intraspecific variations. The occurrence of the different models among the species of Prosopis lead us to conclude that the sections and series in which the genus is divided constitute natural groups of species with regard to the foliar architecture.
23230232|A hybrid, named tricepiro, was obtained in 1972, by crossing a hexaploid triticale (2n=6x=42) and an octoploid trigopiro (2n=8x=56). The lines achieved include the tricepiro Don Ren INTA, which has shriveled kernels, and FA-L2, which has smooth ones. The relationship between the heterochromatin content of the rye chromosomes, the seed weight, the presence of meiotic abnormalities and the kernel shriveling has been documented previously in other intergeneric hybrids. The purpose of this study was to determine the average percentage of heterochromatin content in the rye chromosomes of the two tricepiro lines mentioned above and to relate this feature to some characteristics of the meiosis and seeds. We confirmed that the two lines have the same total chromosome number (2n=42) and the same number of rye chromosomes (14). We found that both lines have a complete chromosome mating until late diakinesis, but differ in the percentage of cells with univalents outside the equatorial plate in Metaphase I (Don Ren 42.85% and FA-L2 14.00%). In addition, the two lines differed in their meiotic index (Don Ren 66.47% and FA-L2 87.90%) and seed weight (Don Ren 0.029  0.000 g and FA-L2 0.038  0.001 g). The C-banding in rye chromosomes in mitotic metaphase indicated that the average percentage of heterochromatin content did not differ significantly between the two lines. In contrast to our expectations, the meiotic behavior and seed characteristics were not related to the heterochromatin percentage of the rye chromosomes of the tricepiro lines studied. Al cruzar un triticale hexaploide (2n=6x=42) y un trigopiro octoploide (2n=8x=56) se obtuvo, en 1972, un hbrido denominado tricepiro. Entre las lneas que se lograron estn tricepiro Don Ren INTA que posee semillas arrugadas y FA-L2 con semillas lisas. El contenido de heterocromatina de los cromosomas de centeno en otros hbridos intergenricos ha sido relacionado con la rugosidad y peso de las semillas, as como con la presencia de anormalidades meiticas. El objetivo del presente trabajo fue determinar, en ambas lneas mencionadas anteriormente, el porcentaje promedio de heterocromatina presente en los cromosomas de centeno y relacionar este valor con caractersticas de la meiosis y de las semillas. Confirmamos que las dos lneas tienen el mismo nmero cromosmico (2n=42) y el mismo nmero de cromosomas de centeno (14). Encontramos que ambas presentan un apareamiento completo de los cromosomas hasta diacinesis tarda, pero difieren en el porcentaje de clulas con univalentes fuera de la placa ecuatorial en Metafase I (Don Ren 42,.85 % y FA-L2 14,00 %). Adems, ambas lneas difieren en el ndice Meitico (Don Ren 66,47 % y FA-L2 87,90 %) y en el peso de las semillas (Don Ren 0,029  0,000 g y FA-L2 0,038  0,001 g). El anlisis de las bandas C, hecho en metafases mitticas, ndic que el porcentaje promedio del contenido de heterocromatina presente en los cromosomas de centeno, no difiere significativamente entre las dos lneas. Contrariamente a nuestras expectativas, el comportamiento meitico y las caractersticas de las semillas no mostraron relacin con el porcentaje de heterocromatina presente en los cromosomas de centeno de las lneas hbridas estudiadas.
23218951|Revision of the Argentine Thelypteridaceae (Pteridophyta). They comprise two genera, Thelypteris, divided in six subgenera with 33 species, and an introduced genus Macrothelypteris, with only one species. Among these subgenera, Amauropelta seems to be a monophyletic group and it presents several characters that could justify its segregation as a genus. The taxon Cyclosorus sensu A. R. Smith (1971) is divided into Cyclosorus s. str., with only one species, and Cyclosoriopsis, with 7 species in Argentina. Three new taxa are proposed and 5 species are cited for the first time for our country. Synonymies are clarified, one change of status is proposed and legitimate names are applied to species previously cited with erroneous names. The diagnostic characters are analyzed and floristic relations, geographic distribution and some ecological characteristics of the entities are also given.
23230245|We analyzed pollen morphology of Tropaeolum argentinum, T. atrocapillare, T. capillare, T. incisum, T. meyeri, T. patagonicum, T. pentaphyllum, T. polyphyllum, T. porifolium, T. trialata, T. tuberosum subsp. silvestre, T. warmingianum subesp. warmingianum and T. willinkii to provide supplementary data for the delimitation of these species. Observations, counting and measuring of pollen grains were carried out under optical and scanning electron microscopes. This study points out that Tropaeolum is a stenopalynous genus. Grains are isopolar or isopolar bilateral, radiosymmetric or bisymmetric, small to medium-sized, triangular to subcircular, anguloaperturate, dicolporate, tricolporate or tetracolporate. The exine is tectate, perforate with reticulum supratectate, heterobrochate, angustimurate. Differences among the taxa are discussed, and a palynological key for the Argentinean species of Tropaeolum is presented. En este trabajo se analizan las caractersticas polnicas de Tropaeolum argentinum, T. atrocapillare, T. capillare, T. incisum, T. meyeri, T. patagonicum, T. pentaphyllum, T. polyphyllum, T. porifolium, T. trialata, T. tuberosum subsp. silvestre, T. warmingianum subesp. warmingianum y T. willinkii con la finalidad de aportar datos para la delimitacin de estas especies. Las observaciones, conteos y mediciones de los granos de polen se realizaron con microscopio ptico y microscopio electrnico de barrido. El estudio de los taxones pone de manifiesto que se trata de un gnero estenopalnico. Los granos son isopolares, bilaterales, radiosimtricos o bisimtricos, pequeos a medianos, con mbito triangular a subcircular, nguloaperturados, dicolporados, tricolporados o tetracolporados. La exina es tectada, perforada, con un retculo supratectal heterobrocado, angustimurado. Se discuten diferencias palinolgicas entre los taxones y se brinda una clave palinolgica para su diferenciacin.
23226708|In this study we aimed at testing two hypothesis about the biogeography of South America: (1) the existence of a marked discontinuity in the Andes of central Peru that separates the floras of northern and southern South America and (2) the occurrence of a more or less continuous semi-deciduous forest in South America during the Pleistocene. We conducted a search for different sources of published information on the flora (inventories) of 19 dry regions in South America as well as one region in Central America and another in North America. In order to analyze the data, we employed ordination and classification techniques, which give a more objective picture of the phytogeographical relationships. Additionally, we evaluated similarity scores between the regions. We found 1,421 woody and herbaceous genera for the 21 regions. These regions form two groups: one mostly in northern South America and the other one restricted to the southern half of the hemisphere. Within the latter, further subdivisions are discernible. Almost all the northern group is made up of tall, deciduous and semi-deciduous forest types. The southern group regions mainly range from very dry forests to desert scrub. Our results support the existence of a floristic discontinuity in relation to the drier flora of the Andes. The southern flora (from southern Peru to northern Argentina and Chile) constitutes a floristic group quite different from that of northern South America. The Chaco region, although more floristically related to the southern group, seems to constitute the connecting link between these northern and southern floras. Within the flora of southern South America, the coastal desert seems to be the connection between hot and cold semi-deserts. Our data also support the hypothesis of the existence of pleistocenic lowland forests in most parts of South America which, however, probably extended up to Mexico. En este estudio nos trazamos el objetivo de poner a prueba dos hiptesis sobre la biogeografa sudamericana: (1) la existencia de una marcada discontinuidad en los Andes del centro de Per que separa las floras del norte y sur de Sudamrica y (2) la existencia de un bosque semideciduo ms o menos continuo en Sudamrica durante el Pleistoceno. De esta manera, intentamos profundizar nuestra comprensin de las relaciones de la flora sudamericana. Realizamos una bsqueda de diferentes fuentes de informacin publicada sobre las floras (inventarios) de 19 regiones secas de Sudamrica as como una de Centroamrica y otra de Norteamrica. A fin de analizar los datos, empleamos tcnicas de ordenacin y clasificacin, las cuales brindan informacin ms objetiva sobre las relaciones fitogeogrficas. Adems, evaluamos ndices de similitud entre las regiones. Encontramos 1.421 gneros leosos y herbceos en las 21 regiones. stas forman dos grupos: uno mayormente en el norte de Sudamrica y el otro restringido a la mitad austral del continente. Dentro del ltimo se pueden distinguir ulteriores subdivisiones. Casi todo el grupo norteo est compuesto por bosques altos, semideciduos. Las regiones del grupo sureo van de bosques muy secos a matorral desrtico. Nuestros resultados apoyan la existencia de una discontinuidad florstica en relacin con la flora seca andina. La flora surea (del sur de Per al norte de Argentina y Chile) constituye un grupo florstico bastante diferente del presente en el norte de Sudamrica. El Chaco, aunque florsticamente ms afn al grupo del sur, parece constituir el nexo de conexin entre las floras nortea y surea. Dentro de la flora de Sudamrica, el desierto costero parece conectar a los semidesiertos calientes y fros. Nuestros datos tambin respaldan la hiptesis de la existencia de bosques pleistocnicos de tierras bajas en la mayor parte de Sudamrica. Posiblemente estos se extendieron incluso hasta Mxico.
23225139|Glechon (Lamiaceae, Mentheae tribe) is a South American genus with nearly 9 species distributed in southern Brasil (Minas Gerais State), northeastern Argentina in the province of Corrientes (Departments Santo Tom and Ituzaing), the southern portion of Paraguay, and Uruguay. Glechon is represented in Argentina by four species from Corrientes and Misiones. The presence of Glechon ciliata and G. thymoides is discussed, and G. marifolia and G. spathulata are new records for the argentinian flora. Morphological and anatomical characters were studied by light and scanning electron microscopy. Geographical distribution, pollen and mericarp micromorphology, synonymy, neotypification, botanical descriptions, key to species and illustrations were also provided. Glechon es un gnero sudamericano de Lamiaceae tribu Mentheae, con alrededor de 9 especies que se distribuyen desde el sur de Brasil, en el Estado de Minas Gerais (25S, 47O) hasta el noreste de Argentina (30S, 62O) en la provincia de Corrientes (Dptos. Santo Tom e Ituzaing). Ocupa tambin el sur de Paraguay y Uruguay. En Argentina se halla representado por cuatro entidades cuya rea de distribucin comprende el noreste de las provincias de Corrientes y Misiones. En el presente trabajo se realiza una revisin sistemtica de las cuatro especies argentinas. La presencia de Glechon ciliata y G. thymoides es discutida; G. marifolia y G. spathulata constituyen nuevas citas para el pas. Los caracteres anatmicos y morfolgicos fueron estudiados mediante el uso de microscopia fotnica y electrnica de barrido. Se realiza la descripcin de las especies y se neotipifican sus nombres. Se presenta un mapa de distribucin, dibujos y fotomicrografas de granos de polen y mericarpos, y una clave para la identificacin de las entidades taxonmicas.
darwiniana.2.1.144|The family Sapindaceae is one of the most important groups of neotropical climbers and it has several cambial variants, some of which are exclusive. In this contribution, we described the wood development of
23226841|Sporophyte morphology of Asplenium dareoides was reviewed, and development and morphology of its gamethophytes were studied for the first time from spore culture on mineral agar. Spores germinated 10 days after sown, and cultures reached a low percentage of germination (1 to 5%). Filamentous phase was initiated at 15 days. Gametophytes followed the Aspidium type of development, which leads to a hairy adult state, with cylindrical, marginal and superficial hairs. The morphological study of the sporophyte was based on foliar architecture, indument, epidermal patterns of pinnulae and indusium, spore size (mean values between 28.9 and 39.7 m) and spore morphology. Gametic chromosome number found was n = 72. Morphological and palynological characters of A. dareoides do not support the close relationship with A. flabellifolium, recently suggested from molecular data. Se revis la morfologa del esporfito y se estudi por primera vez el desarrollo y la morfologa del gametfito de Asplenium dareoides, a partir de esporas cultivadas en un medio nutritivo solidificado con agar. Las esporas germinaron a partir de los 10 das en un porcentaje muy bajo (1 al 5%). La fase filamentosa se inici a los 15 das. Los gametfitos siguieron un modelo de desarrollo de tipo Aspidium, y en la madurez presentaron pelos marginales y superficiales, cilndricos y algo ensanchados en el pice. El estudio morfolgico del esporfito se bas en la arquitectura foliar, el indumento, el modelo epidrmico de las pnnulas y de los indusios, y en la morfologa y el tamao de las esporas (longitud media de 28,9 a 39,7 m). El estudio de la meiosis arroj un nmero cromosmico gamtico n = 72. Los caracteres morfolgicos externos y palinolgicos de A. dareoides no reflejan su parentesco con A. flabellifolium, recientemente sugerido sobre la base de caracteres moleculares.
23211598|El autor estudia la anatoma foliar de Neurolepis Pittieri y N. aristata, y en base a la misma llega a la conclusin que el gnero Neurolepis, diferente a las otras Bambseas por sus caracteres vegetativos, posee la misma estructura anatmica que ellas. The author studies the leaf anatomy of Neurolepis Pittieri and N. aristata, and concludes on this base that although the vegetative characters of this genus differ from the rest of the Bambuseae, it has the same anatomical structure.
23226692|Based on extensive molecular and morphological data, all of the native South American species previously assigned to Sisymbrium (tribe Sisymbrieae) are assigned to the genera Chilocardamum, Mostacillastrum, Neuontobotrys, and Polypsecadium of the tribe Schizopetaleae (Brassicaceae). A key distinguishing these four genera is presented. For each genus, a revised synopsis, an expanded generic description, a key to species, and an enumeration of all taxa is given. Polypsecadium zoellneri is described as a new species from northern Chile, and its distinguishing characters from its nearest relative P. gilliesii are discussed. The following 36 new combinations are proposed: Chilocardamum castellanosii, C. longistylum, C. onuridifolium, Mostacillastrum andinum, M. carolinense, M. commune, M. dianthoides, M. ferreyrae, M. gracile, M. leptocarpum, M. morrisonii, M. oleraceum, M. orbignyanum, M. pectinifolium, M. sagittatum, M. subscandens, M. ventanense, M. weberbaueri, Neuontobotrys choiquense, N. frutescens, N. grayana, N. lanata, N. mendocina, N. polyphylla, N. tarapacana, Polypsecadium adscendens, P. arnottianum, P. brasiliense, P. effusum, P. gilliesii, P. litorale, P. llatasii, P. magellanicum, P. rusbyi, P. solidagineum, and P. tucumanense. Sobre una amplia base de datos moleculares y morfolgicos, todas las especies nativas de Sudamrica previamente incluidas en Sisymbrium (tribu Sisymbrieae), se reasignan a los gneros Chilocardamum, Mostacillastrum, Neuontobotrys y Polypsecadium, de la tribu Schizopetaleae (Brassicaceae). Se presenta una clave para diferenciar estos cuatro gneros, y para cada uno de ellos se incluye una sinopsis actualizada, una descripcin ampliada, una clave para las especies y una enumeracin de todos sus taxones. Se describe Polypsecadium zoellneri, una nueva especie del norte de Chile, y se discuten sus caracteres distintivos frente a P. gilliesii, la especie ms prxima. Se proponen 36 nuevas combinaciones: Chilocardamum castellanosii, C. longistylum, C. onuridifolium, Mostacillastrum andinum, M. carolinense, M. commune, M. dianthoides, M. ferreyrae, M. gracile, M. leptocarpum, M. morrisonii, M. oleraceum, M. orbignyanum, M. pectinifolium, M. sagittatum, M. subscandens, M. ventanense, M. weberbaueri, Neuontobotrys choiquense, N. frutescens, N. grayana, N. lanata, N. mendocina, N. polyphylla, N. tarapacana, Polypsecadium adscendens, P. arnottianum, P. brasiliense, P. effusum, P. gilliesii, P. litorale, P. llatasii, P. magellanicum, P. rusbyi, P. solidagineum y P. tarapacanum.
23217338|Freshwater Algae from Argentina VIII. Cyanophyceae from Misiones I. From samples collected in Misiones (Argentina) 23 taxa of Cyanophyta were identified. All of them are new records for this province and the following 10 are also new records for Argentina: Chamaesiphon incrustans var. elongatus, Xenococcus minimus, Stigonema ocellatum f. acuatica, Calothrix braunii, Plectonema wollei, Scytonema caldarium, Oscillatoria janus, Lyngbya ceylanica var. ceylanica, L. ceylanica var. major y L. maharastrensis.
23215054|This paper deals with the morphological study of the genus Strychnos in Argentina, represented by the single species S. brasiliensis (Spreng.) Mart., distributed in the northeastern part of the country. A complete description and ilustrations are given.
23213061|The following taxonomical and nomenclatural changes have been made : Pestalotiopsis virgatula (Kleb.) Stey. = Pestalozzia acaciicola Speg.; P. leprogena (Speg.) comb. nov.; P. coperniciae (Speg.) comb. nov.; P. glandicola (Cast.) Stey. = Pestalozzia versicolor Speg. var. americana Speg. = Pestalozzia versicolor Speg. var. vagans Speg. (non typus); Pestalotiopsis neglecta (Thuem.) Stey. = Pestalozzia microspora Speg. = Pestalotiopsis foedans (Sacc. et Ellis) Stey. = Pestalozzia bromeliicola Speg. = Pestalotia lawsoniae Mundk. et Keshw.; Pestalotiopsis pallidicolor (Speg.) comb. nov.; Pestalotiopsis oxyanthi (Thuem.) Stey. = Pestalozzia funerea Desm. var. discolor Speg.; Pestalotiopsis decolorata (Speg.) comb. nov.; Pestalotiopsis lindquistii spec. nov.; Truncatella gen. emend., Truncatella pampeana (Speg.) comb. nov.; Doliomyces gen. nov., Doliomyces senegalensis (Speg.) comb. nov.; Chrysalidopsis gen. nov., Chrysalidopsis trevoae (Speg.) comb. nov.; Bleptosporium gen. nov., Bleptosporium montteae (Speg.) comb. nov.; Pestalozzia funerea Desm. var. macrochaeta Speg. = Pestalotia macrochaeta (Speg.) Guba, should fall in the  Taxia dubia . Type specimens of the following epithets are no more amenable to study: Pestalozzia conceptionis Speg., P. longiseta Speg., P. melicoccae Speg., P. paraguayensis Speg., P. subsessilis Speg., P. thumenii Speg., P. uvicola Speg., P. valdiviana Speg., P. versicolor Speg. var. guaranitica Speg., P. versicolor Speg. var. vagans Speg. El autor, luego de estudiar el material de Pestalotiopsis y gneros afincs existentes en el herbario micolgico del Instituto de Botnica Spegazzini, de la Universidad de La Plata, realiza los siguientes cambios taxonmicos y de nomenclatura : Pestalotiopsis virgatula (Kleb.) Stey. = Pestalozzia acaciicola; Speg. P. leprogena (Speg.) comb. nov.; P. coperniciae (Speg.) comb. nov.; P. glandicola (Cast.) Stey. = Pestalozzia versicolor Speg. = P. v. var. americana Speg. = Pestalozzia versicolor Speg. var. vagans Speg. (non typus); Pestalotiopsis neglecta (Thuem.) Stey. = Pestalozzia microspora Speg. = Pestalotiopsis foedans (Sacc. et Ell.) Stey. = Pestalozzia bromeliicola Speg. = Pestalotia lawsoniae Mundk. et Keshw.; Pestalotiopsis pallidicolor (Speg.) comb. nov.; Pestalotiopsis oxyanthi (Thuem.) Stey. = Pestalozzia funerea Desm. var. discolor Speg.; Pestalotiopsis decolorata (Speg.) comb. nov.; Pestalotiopsis lindquistii, spec. nov.; Truncatella gen. emed., Truncatella pampeana (Speg.) comb. nov.; Doliomyces, gen. nov., Doliomyces senegalensis (Speg.) comb. nov.; Chrysalidopsis, gen. nov., Chrysalidopsis trevoae (Speg.) comb. nov.; Bleptosporium, gen. nov., Bleptosporium montteae (Speg.) comb. nov.; Pestalozzia funerea Desm. var. macrochaeta Speg. = Pestalotia machrochaeta (Speg.) Guba, debera ubicarse entre los  taxones dudosos . Los ejemplares tipos de las siguientes especies, no estn ya en condiciones de ser estudiados : Pestalozzia conceptionis Speg., P. longiseta Speg., P. melicoccae Speg., P. paraguayensis Speg., P. subsessilis Speg., P. thumenii Speg., P. uvicola Speg., P. valdiviana Speg., P. versicolor Speg. var. guaranitica Speg., P. versicolor var. vagans Speg.
23222963|This is the second paper of a chemotaxonomic serial study of the subtribe Phaseolinae Benth. in Argentina, which comprises the generic complex Phaseolus-Vigna-Macroptilium. Chromatographic patterns of 8 species of the genus Vigna Savi were determined. Cluster analysis and ordination by principal coordinates analysis were applied to 34 chemical characters (flavonoids). Chemical evidence seems to support the taxonomic treatment proposed by Marchal, Mascherpa & Stainier (1978b) for the American Vigna. Argentinian species of the large subgenus Sigmoidotropis can be grouped according to the sections proposed by these authors. Taxonomic distance between V. peduncularis and V. luteola, the only pantropical representative of the typically African subgenus Vigna, suggested that the section Pedunculares of the subgenus Sigmoidotropis is the nexus between these two groups. Closely related to Sigmoidotropis, the subgenus Lasiospron shows a different affinity with the section Caracallae: V. longifolia is neared to V. hookeri (Caracallae-Sigmoidotropis) than V. lasiocarpa, the other species of Lasiospron. These results are in agreement with the morphological differences observed between both species, and suggest the possibility of introducing two sections in this group.
23226701|Solanum delicatulum, a species only known to southern Brazil, is reported for the first time for Argentina and Paraguay. The species is described and illustrated, and a discussion about its synonymy is also provided. Se documenta por primera vez la presencia de Solanum delicatulum para Argentina y Paraguay, hasta ahora conocida slo para el sur de Brasil. Se describe e ilustra esta especie y se aclara su sinonimia.
23218077|This is the second contribution to the micromycetes growing on Nothofagus pumilio and Nothofagus obliqua. A new species of Ascomycetes is proposed: Discosphaerina nothofaginea sp.nov. Others species of Ascomycetes recorded for the first time in Argentina are described and illustrated. A new combination is proposed. Mycosphaerella antarctica (Speg.) Gam. & Arambarri.
23228241|The taxonomic identification of "Yvyraro", an ichtyotoxic tree used by the "Guaran" community from Misiones Province, is presented. Information about fishing with bark of this species is given. The species and its utilization are illustrated with photographies. Se da a conocer la identificacin taxonmica del "Yvyraro", un rbol ictiotxico utilizado por los Guaranes de Misiones. Se brinda informacin acerca del procedimiento de pesca con la corteza de este rbol. La especie y su utilizacin son ilustradas mediante fotografas.
41825698|The presence of Oenanthe crocata in Buenos Aires province adds a new species to the adventive flora of Argentina and America. This is a toxic plant native from Europe; its toxicity is due to the presence, particularly in roots, of oenanthotoxin, a polyacetylenic alcohol. In its countries of origin, cases of poisoning and death of cattle and humans have been reported by the ingestion of the radical tubercles. The identification of the species was corroborated by comparing the nrDNA ITS region of the argentine material to all the nucleotide sequences available at GenBank, and by performing a maximum likelihood phylogenetic analysis o Oenanthe species. Moreover, Oenanthe divaricata is referred to the synonymy of O. crocata for the first time. This contribution describes and illustrates this new record, provides a distribution map and points the differential characters with other apioids that grow in Argentina. Con el hallazgo de Oenanthe crocata en la provincia de Buenos Aires, una nueva especie se suma a la flora adventicia de la Argentina y de Amrica. Se trata de una planta txica, originaria de Europa; la toxicidad se debe a la presencia, particularmente en las races, de enantotoxina, un alcohol poliacetilnico. En los pases de origen se han reportado casos de envenenamiento y muerte en ganado y seres humanos debido a la ingestin de tubrculos radicales. La identificacin de la especie se corrobor con la comparacin de la regin ITS de ADN nuclear ribosomal del material argentino con las secuencias nucleotdicas disponibles en GenBank y con un anlisis filogentico de mxima verosimilitud de las especies de Oenanthe. Adems se remite, por primera vez, Oenanthe divaricata a la sinonimia de O. crocata. En este aporte se describe e ilustra la nueva cita, se provee un mapa de distribucin y se sealan los caracteres diferenciales con otras apio ideas que crecen en Argentina.
23215597|This paper deals with the monographic study of the species of Series Aphyllae from the genus Cassia. This group has a very wide distribution in the arid and semiarid regions of Argentina and neighbouring countries. The systematic treatment is preceded by an analysis of morphological characters as well as some considerations on anatomy, phytogeography and economic importance. The 11 species, 2 subspecies and 4 varieties now comprehended in this Series are all described and illustrated. C. rigidicaulis, C. fabrisii, C. pachyrrhiza, C. aphylla subsp. aphylla and C. rigida var. inermis are new to science. Three changes of status and one new name are proposed.
23213856|In this paper there are discussed the four species of Typha found in Argentina. A new one T. subulata is described. The others, T. latifolia, T. domingensis and T. angustifolia were already cited for Argentina. The last one, T. angustifolia, in spite of several citations for this country, its existence has been confirmed only to the N. of Patagonia. There is a key and illustrations for all the species.
23230197|The genus Diastatea (Campanulaceae, Lobelioideae) is recorded for the first time for Argentina in antropic enviroments of the Yungas phytogeographic province (Jujuy), between 1,100 and 2,000 m. We describe and illustrate D. micrantha, the only species collected up to now, including a key to discern it from Lobelia xalapensis, its closest taxon. El gnero Diastatea (Campanulaceae, Lobeliodeae) se registra por primera vez para la flora argentina en ambientes antropizados de la Provincia Fitogeogrfica de las Yungas (Jujuy) entre los 1.100 y 2.000 m s.m. Se describe e ilustra D. micrantha, nica especie coleccionada hasta el momento, y se presenta una clave para distinguirla de Lobelia xalapensis, su taxn ms afn.
23228366|A first collection of Agrimonia villosa (Rosaceae) for the Argentinian flora is reported for Misiones Province. A description, illustration, and distribution map of the specimens are given. A key to distinguish A. villosa from A. parviflora is provided. Sobre la base de ejemplares coleccionados en la provincia de Misiones, se menciona por primera vez para la flora argentina a Agrimonia villosa (Rosaceae). Se presenta una descripcin de la especie, se la ilustra mediante fotografas, se agrega un mapa de su distribucin en la Argentina y se provee una clave para distinguir Agrimonia villosa de Agrimonia parviflora.
41825702|Aloe maculata, a petaloid monocot native from South Africa, is recorded as a member of the spontaneous flora of Argentina. This species occurs in different habitats from Crdoba province, Argentina. The aim of this work is to determine its residential status and propose novel diagnostic characters to identify this species, together with ecological observations. The species is illustrated and a distribution map is provided. Aloe maculata, una monocotilednea petaloidea originaria de Sudfrica, se cita por primera vez como miembro de la flora espontnea de Argentina. Esta especie crece en diferentes ambientes de la provincia de Crdoba, Argentina. Los objetivos del trabajo son determinar su estatus de residencia y proponer caracteres diagnsticos novedosos para su identificacin, junto con observaciones ecolgicas. Se ilustra la especie y se provee un mapa de distribucin.
23223885|Paspalum L. has a large number of species with a wide morphological variability and extensive geographical distribution. Species of the genus grow in very diverse habitats, from humid or aquatic environments to dry places with clay or sandy soils, frequently saline. Given the diversity of habitats where the species of Paspalum occur, foliar anatomical characters were studied in order to explain different adaptative strategies. A description of the foliar anatomy of the genus is given, and several characters are discussed in relationship to the habitat. El gnero Paspalum L. presenta un elevado nmero de especies, con una amplia variabilidad morfolgica y una extensa distribucin geogrfica. Sus especies crecen en hbitats sumamente diversos, desde ambientes muy hmedos o acuticos, a lugares secos de suelos arcillosos o arenosos, muchas veces salinos. Dada la diversidad de ambientes en los que puede hallarse Paspalum, se estudiaron las caractersticas anatmico-foliares presentes en el gnero con la finalidad de interpretar diferentes estrategias adaptativas en distintas especies. Se presenta una descripcin general de la anatoma foliar del gnero y se discuten ciertos caracteres anatmicos, interpretando su posible relacin con las condiciones del hbitat.
23227141|The study of the literature and herbarium specimens of Zuccagnia punctata supported the endemic status of this species for Argentina. Along the description, ilustration, and notes, an enriched panorama about this interesting species is offered. El estudio bibliogrfico y de colecciones botnicas pertenecientes a Zuccagnia punctata demostraron el caracter endmico de esta especie para la Argentina. Con la descripcin, ilustracin y otros datos complementarios, se brinda un panorama que enriquece el concepto sobre esta interesante especie.
23223858|Foliar phytolith morphology of 8 species of Paspalum: P. dilatatum Poir., P. lividum Trin. ex Schltdl., P. nicorae Parodi, P. notatum Flgg, P. plicatulum Michx., P. saurae Parodi, P. unispicatum Nash and P. urvillei Steud., present in the prairie of Entre Ros Province, was described. Cluster analysis (UPGMA) and ordination by principal component analysis (PCA) were performed on 49 morphological characters from the 8 phytolith assemblages (OTUs). Three groups were found, the first one with P. unispicatum, the second one with P. lividum and the third group with [P. dilatatum + (P. notatum + P. saurae)] and [P. nicorae + (P. plicatulum + P. urvillei)] assemblage subgroups. The 8 phytolith assemblages show Panicoid affinity (sensu Twiss, 1992). This analyses supported the infrageneric classification, with an exception in the Dilatata group assemblages (P. dilatatum and P. urvillei). Se analiza la morfologa de fitolitos foliares de 8 especies del gnero Paspalum de la provincia de Entre Ros: P. dilatatum Poir., P. lividum Trin. ex Schltdl., P. nicorae Parodi, P. notatum Flugg, P. plicatulum Michx., P. saurae Parodi, P. unispicatum Nash y P. urvillei Steud. Cluster analysis (UPGMA) y anlisis de componentes principales fueron realizados sobre la base de 49 caracteres morfolgicos de 8 asociaciones fitolticas (OTUs). Se hallaron tres grupos, uno integrado por P. unispicatum, el segundo con P. lividum y el tercer grupo formado por [P. dilatatum + (P. notatum + P. saurae)] y [P. nicorae + (P. plicatulum + P. urvillei)]. Las 8 asociaciones de fitolitos se encuadran dentro del tipo Panicoideae (Twiss, 1992). Este estudio coincide con la clasificacin infragenrica, con excepcin de los resultados hallados en el grupo Dilatata (P. dilatatum y P. urvillei).
darwiniana.3.1.5|We analyzed distributional data of vascular plants of the Patagonian province, in order to contribute to its biogeographic regionalization. We constructed maps with the localities of 112 specific and subspecific taxa endemic to the Patagonian steppe, obtained their individual tracks, and undertook a parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE), in order to identify generalized tracks and test a recent biogeographic classification. The Payunia, Subandean and Central subprovinces were not supported by the plant taxa analyzed, as their respective districts were not recovered as generalized tracks. It would be important to analyze other plant and animal taxa in order to explain the inconsistencies found.
23213063|La presencia de las Fumariaceae en la flora advena mendocina era conocida por Fumaria officinalis L., especie tipo del gnero, nica mencionada hasta hoy para la misma. Habiendo el autor documentado la existencia de tres especies ms del mismo gnero: Fumaria capreolata L., Fumaria parviflora Lam., Fumaria densiflora DC. y una forma nueva de la primera, las hace conocer en este trabajo como invasoras de viedos, montes frutales, huertos, jardines y, a veces, bordes de acequias y caminos, lugares donde su introduccin es relativamente reciente, no estimando la fecha ms all del ao 1930. Una de las entidades reconocidas, Fumaria densiflora DC., sera nueva para la flora advena argentina, as como la nueva forma de Fumaria capreolata L. propuesta por el mismo. Las especies son descriptas en base a materiales mendocinos vivos y cultivados a propsito, dndose dibujos de cada una, discriminadas en dos claves dicotmicas, una de las cuales considera exclusivamente las caractersticas de las glndulas nectarferas del espoln de las flores para su diferenciacin. Asimismo se dibujan y describen semillas y su proceso de germinacin, dndose los materiales de herbario que documentan el rea de dispersin de las especies citadas, en la provincia de Mendoza. Estmase que, por su aparicin peridica espontnea, densidad y masa de vegetacin dentro de algunos viedos y montes frutales, as como por sus notables caractersticas fitoqumicas, pueden desempear una funcin til dentro de los mismos como cubierta protectora viva y abono verde, digna de ser tenida en cuenta para no considerar a estas plantas como malezas sino ms bien como plantas tiles. Das Vorhandensein der Fumariaceae innerhalb der Adventivflora Mendozas, war nur durch Fumaria officinalis L., Leitart der Gattung und einzige bis heute erwhnte Art, bekannt. Der Verfasser stellt die Anwesenheit drei weiterer Arten der gleichen Gattung in Mendoza fest und zwar: Fumaria capreolata L., F. parviflora Lam. und Fumaria densiflora DC. Er beschreibt eine neue Form der ersteren. Smtliche Arten sind Eindringlinge in Weinbergen, Obstpflanzungen, Gemsegrten und manchmal auch an Wassergrben und Wegen. An allen diesen Standorten sind sie erst seit relativ kurzer Zeit aufgetreten, schtzungsweise nicht vor 1930. Eine der bestimmten Einheiten, nmlich F. densiflora DC. drfte neu fr die Adventivflora Argentiniens sein. Die Arten werden auf Grund von lebenden und besonders zu diesem Zweck gezogenem mendociner Material beschrieben, und gezeichnet. Von den zwei Bestimmungs-Schlsseln bercksichtigt einer ausschliesslich die charakteristichen Merkmale der Nektarien im Bltensporns. Weiterhin werden die Samen und deren Keimvorgang gezeichnet und beschrieben, und das Herbarmaterial, welches das Verbreitungsareal der erwhnten Spezien in der Provinz Mendoza beurkundet, angegeben. Verfasser ist der Meinung, dass diese Arten wegen ihres spontanen Auftretens, ihres winterlichen wachstums, ihrer Dichte und Vegetationsmasse in gewissen Weinbergen und Obstgrten, sowie auch wegen ihrer auffallenden chemischen Eigenschaften und mglischem Futterwert, ntzliche Pflanzen sind. Sie wirken als Bodenschutz und als billige Grndngung, sodass man sie nicht als Unkruter sondern wvielmehr als Nutzpflanzen betrachten sollte. The only members of Fumariaceae already known in the adventious flora of Mendoza was Fumaria officinalis L. type species of the genus. The author reports the existence of three more species of the same genus: Fumaria capreolata L, F. parviflora Lam., F. densiflora DC. and describes a new form of the first. All are invader of vineyards, orchards, gardens, road sides, and furrow borders. Their introduction must be new, its date being estimated about 1930. One of the recognized entities, F. densiflora DC., to be new for the adventitious flora of Argentina. The descriptions and keys are based upon living material from Mendoza, which was grown for this purpose. One of the keys is based on the important characteristics of the nectariferous glands in the spurs of the flowers. Seeds and germination are described. Herbarium specimens documenting the dispersal of species within the area of the Province of Mendoza, are cited. The author considers that due to their spontaneous development density and mass of vegetation in some vineyards and orchards, and perhaps due to their chemical properties, these species are useful as a living soil cover, as green manure and possibly as forage. They have to be considered not as weeds, but as useful plants.
23222959|This paper deals with the anatomical leaf characters of Prosopis nigra (Grisebach) Hieronymus. The adaptive features of leaflets from plants growing under extreme conditions were studied. It was found that every individual analysed exhibits the same syndrome: xerophytism. Many characters are common to all specimens (reduction of leaf size, isolateral mesophyll, increase of pallisade chlorenchyma, high stomata density, presence of unicellular trichomes and tetrahedric cristals) and several others characters show a response to special environmental conditions (frequency of hairs and stomata in the upper and lower surface, cuticular thickness and leaflets breadth and length).
23218950|Chromosome studies in Argentine species of Stevia (Compositae). Meiotic chromosome counts and observations were made in 11 Argentine diploid species of the genus Stevia Cav. The gametic numbers for eight species are reported for the first time, as follows: S. achalensis Hieron. (n = 11), S. breviaristata Hook. et Arn. (n = 11), S. camachensis Hieron. (n = 11), S. centinelae Cabrera (n = 11), S. jujuyensis Cabrera (n = 11, n = 12), S. lilloi Rob. (n = 11), S. sanguinea Hieron. (n = 11), and S. yaconensis Hieron. (n = 11, n = 11 + B). Equal numbers to those reported previously in the literature were found for S. grisebachiana Hieron. and for S. potrerensis Hieron.
23218929|Karyological studies in Compositae IV. Vernonieae and Eupatorieae. Meiotic or mitotic chromosome numbers were determined and observations on the meiotic behavior were made in 19 taxa belonging to four different genera of Vernonieae and Eupatorieae. Eight species are investigated cytologically for the first time. These are as follows: V. lorentzii Hieron. (n = 17), Eupatorium subhastatum Hook. et Arn. (n = 20), Stevia gilliesii Hook. et Arn. (n = 11), S. grisebachiana Hieron. (n = 11 y n = 11 + 1B), S. multiaristata Sprengel (n = 11), S. potrerensis Hieron. (n = 11), S. schickendantzii Hieron. (2n = 22), S. yalae Cabrera (n = 11). In Vernonia platensis (Sprengel) Less. two cytotipes with n = 10 and n = 20 were found; therefore, the presence of a primitve x = 10 in the New World species of Vernonia is confirmed. Equal or different numbers to those reported previously in the literature were found for other eleven taxa of the two tribes.
23228244|Artifact, ecofact and vegetal evidences recuperated from domestic and ceremonial deposits on village establishments of Early Formative (1500 - 400 b. C.), corresponding to the Tilocalar and Tarajne Phase, indicates that in gorges of the western slope of the Puna de Atacama (2500 - 3500 m) hunting practices were maintained in tandem with the consolidation of pastoralism practices. In this scenery the exploitation of domestic and wild plant resources was complementary and not decisive for the earliest Formative subsistence, therefore the agrarian expansion will eclosion during the next formative events (400 b. C- 500 b. C.) emphasizing the control of the piedmont oases. Evidencias de artefactos, ecofactos y vegetales provenientes de depsitos habitacionales y ceremoniales de asentamientos aldeanos del Formativo Temprano (1500  400 a. C.), correspondientes a la fase Tarajne y Tilocalar, indican que en las quebradas de la vertiente occidental de la Puna de Atacama (2500  3500 m s. m.) se mantuvieron las prcticas de caza mientras se consolidaba el pastoralismo. En este escenario la explotacin de recursos vegetales cultivados y silvestres fue complementaria y no decisiva para la ms temprana subsistencia durante el Formativo, de modo que la expansin agraria eclosion durante los siguientes eventos (400 a. C - 500 d. C.) enfatizndose el control de los oasis piemontanos.
23223195|Reproductive biology of Panicum spathellosum Dll was studied in two natural populations from Buenos Aires province, Argentina. In this species the inflorescences are composed of biflowered spikelets. The opening of the flowers is basipetal both in the principal and primary axis. Each spikelet has a lower staminate flower and an upper pistillate, chasmogamous and protogynous flower. The latter has also 3 staminodia. The stigmatic branches of the upper flower were exposed and 1 day later the staminodia arose. All the stigmas were exposed in approximately 8 days. Afterwards the stamens of each lower flower appeared and the entire exposition was completed in 3 days. It took nearly 13 days between the presentation of the stigmatic branches to the whole emergence of the androecium. Pollen grains had an 85.5 % of viability and contained starch, proteins and lipids as reserve substances. Some experiences were made to analyze the reproductive system of this species. It was proved that it is cross-pollinated and there was neither geitonogamy nor apomixis. A 60-81 % of caryopsis formation was obtained by cross-pollination. Caryopsis showed a 75 % of germination after sowing. A new type of "sexuality" within the spikelet of Panicum is here described. In P. spathellosum the lower flower is staminate and the upper one pistillate. The present study suggests that P. spathellosum has improved cross-pollination throughout diclinous monoecy and temporal separation of floral anthesis.
23217352|Critical notes on Elytrigia (Gramineae). The following new combinations are validated: Elytrigia araucana (L. Parodi) Covas; E. attenuata (Kunth) Covas; E. breviaristata (A. Hitchc.) Covas; E. fuegiana (Speg.) Covas; E. mendocina (L. Parodi) Covas; E. patagonica (Speg.) Covas; E. scabrifolia (Doell) Covas; E. scabriglumis (Hackel) Covas and E. tilcarensis (J. H. Hunz.) Covas. The binomials E. magellanica (Desv.) Covas and E. antarctica (L. Parodi) Covas are not validated; both them could be considered as synonyms of the taxon whose correct epithet would be E. pubiflora (Steudel) Tzvelev.
23225121|Prosopis ferox (Mimosaceae) is a spiny bush or tree, distributed in southern Bolivia and northwestern Argentina. Populations of P. ferox from Jujuy grow at high elevations (2400 to 3700 m). There is in this species a great morphological variability, especially in fruit dimensions and the number of seeds per fruit. These characteristics are important because of its use as forage. With the aim of analyzing the genetic variability among and within populations, a seed protein electrophoretic study of different accessions from the province of Jujuy was performed. The polipeptidic patterns obtained by SDS-PAGE showed a total of 26 bands. The analyzed populations could be distinguished by their protein profiles, and intrapopulation variability (polymorphism) was found in some of them, while others were monomorphic. The polymorphism indexes found in P. ferox were comparable to those previously found in P. ruscifolia. The genetic variability found among populations of P. ferox, using seed proteins analysis, suggests the existence of ecotypes. Prosopis ferox (Mimosaceae) es una especie arbustiva o arbrea espinosa que se distribuye desde el Sur de Bolivia hasta el noroeste de la Argentina. En la provincia de Jujuy se encuentra a grandes alturas (entre los 2400 y los 3700 m s.m.). Existe una gran variabilidad morfolgica, especialmente en cuanto a las dimensiones del fruto y la cantidad de semillas por fruto, ambas caractersticas importantes debido al uso de esta planta como forraje. Con el objeto de verificar si existe adems variabilidad gentica, se realiz un estudio electrofortico de protenas seminales de rboles procedentes de distintas localidades de la provincia de Jujuy. Los patrones polipeptdicos obtenidos por SDS-PAGE presentaron en total 26 bandas. Cada poblacin se caracteriz por sus patrones de presencia-ausencia de bandas, habindose encontrado variabilidad intrapoblacional (polimorfismo) en algunas de ellas, siendo otras genticamente homogneas. Los ndices polimrficos en poblaciones de P. ferox son comparables a los obtenidos previamente en P. ruscifolia. La variabilidad gentica interpoblacional hallada por medio del estudio electrofortico de las protenas seminales hace suponer la existencia de ecotipos.
23211924|The famous descriptive botanical work, Hortus Elthamensis of J. J. Dillenius, published in 1732, is one of the classicals of the last prelinnean period and an important sourcebook for Linnaeus' Species Plantarum. Notwithstanding this fact, the Hortus is up to the present practically unknown to Southamerican botanists. Studying the copy purchased for the library of the Instituto de Botnica Darwinion (San Isidro), the commentarist was struck by the large number of Southamerican, and especialy Argentine, species first described by Dillenius in his Hortus; species which, with few exceptions, Linnaeus renamed and published afterwards in his Species Plantarum (1753). The present commentary is an attempt to explain the importance of Dillenius and his notable botanical achievements, especially the Hortus Elthamensis, to modern Southamerican botanists, and to give them a guide for a thorough interpretation of his species and the accurate and beautiful plates of his work; The matters especially considered are: A rsum of the life of J. J. Dillenius (1684-1747) and his importance in botanical history; A brief characterization of the Hortus Elthamensis; An investigation of the collector who sent botanical specimens from Buenos Aires to Sherard and Dillenius in 1726-1727; this collector, a Dr. Mylam. was probably the first to accomplish such a task in Argentina. Thanks to Mylam and Dillenius no less than 13 Argentine species were described by Linnaeus, several of them as "bonariensis". In the whole, 40 species of the Argentine flora are described and excellently figured by Dillenius in his Hortus Elthamensis, and many others are of importance as type species of accepted genera; In a note (pages 377-378) the commentarist exposes his ideas about the four principal periods into which southamerican botanical history may be divided; There follows a commented list of the Argentine species of plants described by Dillenius, as well as other species and such cultivated ones as deserve more interest; Finally a complete interpretation of the 325 dillenian plates is presented, based on the important work of this kind by Druce and Vines (1907, pag. 157-184), but with many corrections now necessary in order to put the names in accordance with modern botanical nomenclature (International Code of 1952). This interpretation follows the order of Dillenius' plate numbers; An alphabetical index to all binomials cited and a bibliography about the subject complete the commentary. Reproductions of 16 dillenian plates include all the Argentine species of the Hortus Elthamensis and a few others, all of which are of botanical and artistical merits; the frontispiece is a pencil copy by the Argentine artist Nelly de Troncoso of the portrait published by Druce and Vines, 1907.
23218082|A taxonomic revision of the genus Verbena sect. Junellia in NW of Argentine is presented. A key to recognize the 8 species present in this area is given. Each taxa is described and illustrated, and the respectiva data of geographycal distribution and a list of the examined herbarium material is given.
23213796|1. El corte transversal de la corteza se subdivide habitualmente en corteza interna que corresponde al floema en funcin, en corteza central y corteza externa. 2) Los criterios ms importantes para la identificacin de la corteza son: a) Sobre todo la agrupacin del liber duro; b) La formacin de los radios medulares; c) La presencia de clulas y canales secretores; d) La formacin secundaria de clulas ptreas en la corteza central y externa; e) El crecimiento de dilatacin en la corteza externa; f) Formacin y decurso de la peridermis; g) Caractersticas especiales del suber (anchura, tipo de clulas, estratificacin); h) Caractersticas especiales de la felodermis (anchura, tipo de clulas, estratificacin). 3. Para la caracterizacin del liber duro se hizo una clave de los disprentes tipos del floema. 2. Se discute las relaciones entre el aspecto externo de la corteza y su estructura anatmica (formacin del ritidoma, tipo de suber y felodermis, disposicin de las lenticelas). 5. Se discute los caracteres comunes de las familias estudiadas. Hay familias que se caracterizan muy bien, como por ejemplo, las Lecythidaceae, Bignoniaceae, Sapotaceae, etc., pero se encuentran otras familias que son muy heterogneas y que no presentan caracteres en comn. 6. Se discuten caracteres especiales de ciertas especies.
23223183|This paper deals with the interpretation, description and typological characterization of the inflorescences of the genera belonging to the tribe Verbeneae. These genera are: Glandularia Gmelin, Hierobotana Briquet, Junellia Moldenke, Tamonea Aublet, Verbena Linn and Urbania R. A. Philippi, all of them represented in South America. All the cases belong to the polytelic type of synflorescences. Florescences of almost all genera are dense spikes with decussate bracts. Only Tamonea has loose, spiciform racemes with disperse bracts. Floral prophylls are always absent. The heterothetic pleiobotryum is the most frequent branching form, present in Verbena, Glandularia and Hierobotana. Urbania and Junellia have monobotrya. Homothetic pleiobotrya characterize all species of Tamonea. Heteroblastic development of the branches can be observed in several species of Junellia. In these cases flowering can be restricted to the brachyblasts, a frequent specialization in woody plants. The heterothetic paniculiform pleiobotryum has been mentioned for several families of the Angiospermae as a primitive or central form, from which other forms derived through processes such as condensation, reduction and truncation. In Verbeneae this non specialized "paniculodium" is present in Verbena and Glandularia. Condensation of the florescences, to compose more or less functionally discrete subunits, appears in Verbena ser. Pachystachyae and Glandularia subgen. Paraglandularia. Reduction of the enriching zone occurs in Urbania and most Junellia species. Such reduction and decrease of flower number in the florescences could be related to the xerophyllous nature of these species. Truncation of the main florescence, such as the homogenization and racemization of the distal paracladia, have been produced in Tamonea giving rise to an homothetic pleioraceme. Tamonea shows few affinities with the remaining genera of Verbeneae. It differs from them in several inflorescence characters and gynoecial features previously studied by other authors. Because of all these characters, the place of this genus within the Verbenoideae should be reconsidered.
23215596|An analysis is made of the brown algae Chordaria linearis, endemic of the Fuegia region. A description is made about the morphology, structure and sporangia. Besides an experimental study about life history is made. Cultures "in vitro" have been obtained from the swarmers of the unilocular sporangia of the collected plants in nature. The growing of them gave place to the postrated protonema that directly origined the erect plants with the particularity that these, in its young erect thalli have a polistichous structure. In no cases plurilocular sporangia have been seen.
23223193|Calix glands were studied in the Atacama endemic Dinemandra ericoides Adr.Juss.(Malpighiaceae). Their anatomy and development are described for the first time. These oil-secreting glands (elaiophores) are anatomically different to other calix elaiophores known in the family and to other flower glands in the same species. The calix glands lack a preformed pores for oil release. The oil has to be exposed actively by the pollinator by the breakage of the cuticle. Form and position of the elaiophores are correlated to the mode of oil collection by species of Centris. The elaiophore of Dinemandra is compared in its anatomy to floral and extrafloral glands known in other members of the family.
23226848|Commelina fasciculata subsp. chacoensis, from the Tucumn and Salta provinces (Argentina), is described and illustrated. It differs from the type subspecies by its habitat, tuberose roots, and the color of petals, filaments, staminodia and style. Se describe e ilustra Commelina fasciculata subsp. chacoensis, coleccionada en las provincias de Tucumn y Salta (Argentina). Este nuevo taxn difiere de la subespecie tipo por el hbitat, sus races tuberosas y el color de los ptalos, los filamentos estaminales, los estaminodios y el estilo.
23223862|Poa ligularis var. stricta Parodi ex Nicora & F.A. Roig, described from southern Mendoza through northern Chubut, is raised to the rank of species based on phenetic and nomenclatural studies, and a new name, Poa durifolia Giussani, Nicora & F.A. Roig, is proposed for this taxon. This species was identified as an independent taxon within the morphological range of variation of Poa section Dioicopoa E. Desv. of Argentina (Giussani, 1997, 2000). Multivariate analysis of specimens of P. ligularis var. stricta, unidentified specimens, and the whole data matrix with specimens of Poa section Dioicopoa, helped identify the taxon and clarify its taxonomy. In order to characterize P. ligularis Nees ex Steud. and P. durifolia (= P. ligularis var. stricta), numerical analyses, including statistical tests were performed. Recognition of the taxa as separate species is supported by the results of principal component analysis and significant differences in reproductive and vegetative characters. A key to identify Poa durifolia, and a map of its geographical distribution are given. Poa ligularis var. stricta Parodi ex Nicora & F.A. Roig, descripta para el sur de Mendoza hasta el norte de Chubut, es elevada al rango de especie sobre la base de estudios fenticos y nomenclaturales, y se propone un nuevo nombre para dicho taxon: Poa durifolia Giussani, Nicora & F.A. Roig. Esta especie fue identificada como una entidad independiente dentro del rango de variacin morfolgico de las especies de Poa seccin Dioicopoa E. Desv. de la Argentina (Giussani, 1997, 2000). El anlsis multivariado con los ejemplares de P. ligularis var. stricta, otros ejemplares no identificados, y los datos provenientes de la matriz del conjunto de especies de Poa seccin Dioicopoa, ayud a identificar el taxn y clarificar su taxonoma. Con el objeto de diferenciar a P. ligularis Nees ex Steud. y P. durifolia (= P. ligularis var. stricta), se utilizaron anlisis numricos y pruebas estadsticas. Los resultados del anlisis de componentes principales y las diferencias significativas encontradas en caracteres reproductivos y vegetativos, confirman la independencia entre ambos taxones. Se presenta una clave para la identificacin de Poa durifolia, y un mapa representando su rea de distribucin geogrfica.
23218297|The author reports the presence of Lycopodium magellanicum var. magellanicum in the Province of Buenos Aires (Sierra de la Ventana). Habitat conditions and distribution of the taxon (Southern Argentina and Chile, Ventania range in Buenos Aires) in the framework of already poposed patterns of distribution and migration routes for Pteridophytes of Buenos Aires is discussed.
darwiniana.2.2.260|The genus
23224214|The pollination biology of Habenaria parviflora (Orchidaceae: Habenariinae) was studied in Picinguaba, So Paulo State, southeastern Brazil in order to broaden our knowledge on the pollination biology and functional morphology of this terrestrial orchid genus. Plants are self-compatible but pollinator-dependent. The recorded pollinators were crane-fly (Diptera: Tipulidae) females and pyralid moths (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae). The pollination mechanism is the same regardless of the kind of pollinator: the pollinaria are fixed on the insect proboscis through the glove-like viscidium and removed when the insects leave the flowers. A pollinarium-carrying insect visiting another flower will brush the stigmatic surfaces and leave clumps of massulae, thus effecting pollination. This mode of pollinarium fixation is, as far as we know, reported for the first time for the genus Habenaria and is a clear consequence of viscidium's morphology. The involute, glove-like viscidium is a unique flower feature among neotropical Habenaria species. Flower features promoting cross-pollination are briefly discussed. This is also the first report of orchid pollination by crane-flies (Tipulidae) in the neotropics. Se estudi la biologia floral de Habenaria parviflora (Orchidaceae: Habenariinae) en Picinguaba, Estado de So Paulo, sudeste del Brasil, con la finalidad de incrementar el conocimiento sobre la biologa de la polinizacin y morfologa funcional de este gnero de Orqudeas terrestres. Estas plantas son autocompatibles, pero polinizador-dependientes. Los polinizadores registrados fueron hembras de Tiplidos (Diptera: Tipulidae) y polillas Pyralidae (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae). El mecanismo de polinizacin es el mismo, independientemente del tipo de polinizador: los polinarios se fijan a la probscide de los polinizadores a travs de su viscidio en forma de guante, y son removidos cuando los insectos dejan las flores. Cuando visita otra flor, un insecto que lleva polinrios los rozar contra las superfcies estigmticas, dejando acmulos de msulas, efectuando as la polinizacin. Hasta donde se sabe, este tipo de fijacin de polinarios es informado por primera vez para el gnero Habenaria y es una clara consecuencia de la morfologa del viscidio. El viscidio involuto, en forma de guante, es una caracterstica nica entre las especies neotropicales del gnero Habenaria. Los caracteres florales que favorecen la polinizacin cruzada son discutidos brevemente. ste es tambin hasta donde sabemos, el primer registro de polinizacin de orqudeas por Tiplidos (Tipulidae) en los neotrpicos.
23223892|In order to know the plants used by honeybees in the Senguerr river plains, a palynological analysis of 19 samples of honey was made. Most samples had less than 2000 grains/g. Fifty-seven types of pollen were identified. Main sources of nectar belong to the following families: Fabaceae, Rosaceae, Brassicaceae and Asteraceae. Honeys were classified as monofloral Melilotus sp. (8 samples), monofloral Rosaceae (wild and cultivated, 2 samples) or of mixed floral origin (9 samples). The analized honeys may be distinguished by a pollen association of Trifolieae, Brassicaceae, Rosaceae, Acaena sp., Glycyrrhiza astragalina Gillies ex Hook. & Arn. and Cyperaceae. Con el fin de conocer las plantas melferas de la llanura del ro Senguerr, se realiz el anlisis palinolgico de 19 muestras de miel. El estudio permiti identificar 57 tipos morfolgicos y demostrar que las principales fuentes de nctar pertenecen a las familias Fabaceae, Rosaceae, Brassicaceae y Asteraceae. Del total de muestras analizadas 9 resultaron mixtas y 10 monoflorales, de estas ltimas, 8 fueron de Melilotus sp. y 2 de Rosaceae. Las mieles estudiadas pueden ser caracterizadas por una asociacin polnica de Trifolieae, Brassicaceae, Rosaceae, Acaena sp., Glycyrrhiza astragalina Gillies ex Hook. & Arn. and Cyperaceae. En la mayora de las muestras el contenido polnico fue inferior a 2000 granos/gramo.
23218937|Chromosomal studies in species of Zephyranthes (Amaryllidaceae). The karyotypes of 13 taxa of the genera Zephyranthes are described. Several basic chromosome numbers have been recorded in this genus, of which x = 6 and 7 are the most frequent. The majority of the species are polyploid and show aneuploidy and great variation in chromosome morphology. For this reason the study of the diploid species was deemed important. The nomenclature used is that suggested by Levan et al. (1964). The karyotypes of the following diploid species are described for the first time: Z. bakeriana Morong 2n = 12 (4m + 2sm + 6st); Z. kurtzii A. T. Hunz. et Coc. 2n = 12 (4m + 2sm + 6st); Z. mesochloa (Herb.) Baker 2n = 12 (2m + 10sm); Z. aff. mesochloa 2n = 12 + 1B (4m + 2sm + 6st + 1m (B)) and Z. stellaris Ravenna 2n = 20 (8m + 12sm). The other eight taxa studied are polyploid and for them previous records exist; some of our results are new numbers for these taxa. Comparing the karyotypes among each other and with those which belong to closely related species, the relationship among them according to the intra- and interchromosomic variations (Fig. 7) was studied and the possible mechanisms responsible for the great chromosome variation in the genus are discussed.
23218130|Native and naturalized Moraceae from Argentina (Excluding Ficus). The author presents a taxonomic revision of the family Moraceae (except Ficus, genus which was treated in a previous work) as represented in the flora of Argentina. The genera Dorstenia, Sorocea, Morus, Maclura and Broussonetia are treated, includying a total of 10 species. The genera and species are keyed, described and illustrated. The following names are new for the Argentine flora: Maclura tinctoria (L.) Don ex Steudel ssp. tinctoria; Maclura tinctoria (L.) Don ex Steudel ssp. mora (Grisebach) Vzquez Avila; Morus insignis Bureau; Sorocea sprucei (Baillon) Macbride.
23612308|A review of the Hymenasplenium species from Argentina is presented and their morphology and palynology are analyzed. Two species are recognized: H. laetum growing in Misiones, Salta and Tucumn, of terrestrial habit, and H. triquetrum which grows as saxicolous in Misiones. For both species, iconographies, descriptions, and distribution maps, are given. The diagnostic value of characteristics of the root inner cortex to differentiate both genera of Aspleniaceae, and the presence of two types of spores ornamentation in Hymenasplenium, are corroborated. Illustrations of the morphological features of the roots, petioles, and spores are presented. Se presenta una revisin de las especies del gnero Hymenasplenium de Argentina y se analizan aspectos morfolgicos y palinolgicos. Se identificaron dos especies: H. laetum que crece en Misiones, Salta y Tucumn, de hbito terrestre, e H. triquetrum que crece como saxcola en Misiones. Para cada especie se incluye iconografa, descripciones y mapa de distribucin. Se corrobora el valor diagnstico de las caractersticas de la corteza interna de la raz para diferenciar los dos gneros de Aspleniaceae y la presencia en el gnero Hymenasplenium de dos tipos de ornamentacin de esporas. Se presentan ilustraciones de races y pecolos, y de las esporas analizadas.
90005722|The family Diatrypaceae (Xylariales) includes mainly saprotrophic and some pathogenic species on wood of angiosperms. The aim of this study is to update the taxonomy and distribution of 30 species and species complexes of Diatrypaceae recorded in Argentina.
23223220|Interspecific crossing was conducted between diploid cytotypes of two Paspalum species of the subgenus Anachyris in order to investigate their genomic relationship and to evaluate the possibilities of gene exchange between these species as a tool for their genetic improvement. Paspalum simplex was the female parent. The F hybrids showed stoloniferous growth habit which is characteristic of the male parent, P. procurrens. Regular meiotic behavior in the F hybrids demonstrated that both species have significant homology in their genomes. Embryological studies and seed production analysis under self-and cross-pollinated conditions demonstrated that the hybrids, like their parents, are sexual and self-sterile but cross-compatible. Both, the high level of crossabitity of the parents and the degree of fertility observed in F hybrids and in backcross progenies, indicated the feasibility of gene exchange between these species. Morphologically, P. simplex and P. procurrens are easily recognized as different species. Notwithstanding, the high crossability and the high level of fertility observed in hybrids and backcrossed progenies contrast with the lack of intermediate forms observed in herbaria and during field trips. Diploid cytotypes of both species seem to be restricted to western areas of the phytogeographic Chaco province, from Bolivia to Argentina. However, divergent evolution likely occurred in correlation with latitude and specific soil requirements. Diploid P. simplex was found in the southwestern Chaco province on clayey soil while P. procurrens was collected in the northwest of the province, growing on sandy soil.
23228362|Two species of the genus Handroanthus with pink (eventually white) flowers are recognized in Argentina: Handroanthus heptaphyllus and H. impetiginosus. Those two species, treated as synonyms by some authors, are closely related by their morphology, and often mis-identified, particularly at juvenile stages. We studied adult and juvenile morphology of both entities to establish both their taxonomic boundaries and status. One hundred herbarium specimens were analyzed, new collections of native and cultivated individuals were made, and some of these were cultivated from seeds, so that young seedlings could also be studied. We found clear morphological differences that support the recognition of two different species. Descriptions, keys and illustrations are provided for both species as adult and seedlings. We also present a table summarizing differences between both species at different developmental stages and a map with their distribution in Argentina. Dos especies del gnero Handroanthus con flores rosadas (eventualmente blancas) se reconocen para Argentina: Handroanthus heptaphyllus y H. impetiginosus. Ambas especies, tratadas como sinnimos por algunos autores, estn estrechamente relacionadas por su morfologa, y su identificacin suele confundirse, especialmente en las etapas juveniles. Este estudio analiz la morfologa adulta y juvenil de ambas entidades para decidir su delimitacin y estatus taxonmico. Para ello, se estudi un centenar de ejemplares herborizados, se realizaron nuevas colecciones de individuos nativos y cultivados, y se reprodujeron algunos de ellos para el estudio de las etapas juveniles. Se encontraron diferencias morfolgicas consistentes que apoyan la delimitacin de dos especes distintas. Se incluyen descripciones, ilustraciones y una clave para la identificacin de estas especies en estado adulto y de plntula. Asimismo, se presenta una tabla que resume las diferencias entre ambas especies en diferentes etapas de su desarrollo, y un mapa con la distribucin en Argentina.
23222560|In 11 species of Nicotiana representing 4 floral biotypes it is intended to determine if structural parameters of the nectaries (nectary volume, number and diameter of its stomata, nuclei diameter of the secretory cells, and nectary size relative to the whole ovary) show any reciprocal relationships or if they respond to the syndrome's physiological requirements. Though the chiropterophilous species exhibit, as can be expected, the largest nectaries, other syndromes do not have significantly different mean nectary volumes. Considering parameters other than nectary volume, species cannot be asigned to any particular syndrome based on nectary character. A correlation between nectary volume and size relative to the whole ovary does exist, probably pointing out a correspondence between the development of glandular and non-glandular parts of the ovary. On the other hand, nectary volume appears to be correlated with the size of the secretory cell nuclei and, among the sphingophilous species, also with the stomata diameter.
23230184|The present investigation describes and identifies wood remains founded in a structure in Campo de Carrizal (Beln, Catamarca). These remains include a complete wooden shovel without carbonized marks or signs and two post fragments used to support the roof. The analyses were compared with results reported in previous studies regarding another post founded in a near enclosure of the same archaeological site. Finding conditions of these remains have allowed us to infer fire events and postdepositional processes. En el presente trabajo se describen e identifican restos de madera hallados en el sitio Campo de Carrizal (Departamento de Beln, Catamarca) utilizados para la fabricacin de objetos (palas) y la construccin de techumbres (postes) de habitaciones. Se comparan los resultados obtenidos con aquellos provenientes de estudios realizados por otros autores sobre materiales semejantes en el sitio contiguo denominado Loma de Los Antiguos. A partir de su anlisis y de las condiciones de hallazgo, se ha podido hacer interpretaciones acerca de eventos de incendio y de los procesos de formacin del sitio.
23215580|En esta revisin del gnero Cryptantha se estudian las 13 especies que habitan en la Repblica Argentina. Se describen dos nuevos taxones: C. papillosa y C. latefissa y adems se ampla el rea de C. maritima que no haba sido citada para nuestro pas. El trabajo comprende descripciones e ilustraciones de todas las especies, una clave para su identificacin y un mapa con la distribucin. In this revision of the genus Cryptantha are studied the 13 species that occur in Argentina. Two new taxa are described: C. papillosa and C. latefissa and also is included C. maritima wich was not quoted for Argentina before. This work includes descriptions and drawings of all species, a key for their identification and a map with their distribution.
23230249|This is the first record of Mycena holoporphyra for the Argentinean mycobiota. We describe and illustrate this especies, and discuss differences with its closest taxa. A key to the species of Mycena sect. Calodontes subsect. Purae from Argentina is also included. Este es el primer registro de Mycena holoporphyra para la micobiota Argentina. Se describe e ilustra esta especie, se analizan las diferencias con las especies cercanas, y se incluye una clave para identificar las especies de Mycena sect. Calodontes subsect. Purae de la Argentina.
23215661|A second species of the verbenaceous genus Parodianthus Troncoso, 1941, is described from central Argentina (northermost Sierras de Crdoba): P. capillaris nov. spec. It differs from the type species, P. ilicifolius, by its low, creeping habit and the linear or filiform leaves. A special type of "exocristalliferous hairs" is described, common to both species and therefore adding to the generic diagnosis, in which a small linear crystal is present on the tip of the hair.
23216501|A taxonomic revision of the american Rhynchospora rugosa (Vahl) Gale sensu stricto and some close related species was made. The afro-asiatic-australian R. chinensis Nees et Meyen ex Nees, R. lavarum Gaudich. and R. brownii Roem. et Sch. were segregated from R. rugosa under which, different authors, considered them like subspecies or synonyms. R. brownii is a widespread pan-tropical species with a disjunct area. It is represented in a New World by its new subsp. americana. The majority of material mentioned as R. rugosa, from Africa, Asia and Australia is R. brownii subsp. brownii. The other american species which have been studied here are: Rhynchospora marisculus Nees, R. brasiliensis Bck., R. pungens Liebm. and R. barrosiana nov. spec. They all belong to sections Glaucae Clarke and Marisculae Kkenthal. Although R. jubata Liebm. and R. globularis (Chapm.) Small ex Gale are not related to R. rugosa, have also been described in this paper in order to make clear their identities. All the above mentioned species have been described and illustrated; the distribution of R. rugosa, R. brownii, R. barrosiana, R. marisculus and R. pungens is given on maps. Some observations about the achenes' epidermis are given too. Several critical and type specimens have been studied and arranged in a list of collectors. A key for this set of species is given.
23222563|The flowering periods, breeding systems and the isolation barriers in four species of Bromus (B. catharticus Vahl, B. brevis Ness., B. parodii Covas et Itria, and B. bonariensis Parodi et Cmara Hernndez) and five of its artificial interspecific hybrids were studied. The crossability (the feasibility of a determined interspecific cross) was calculated in each of the made breeding crosses. Furthermore, the importance of the breeding systems (Chasmogamy vs. cleistogamy) and the existence of pre or postcygotic isolation barriers in the speciation process are discussed. It is concluded that: B. catharticus would be the most advanced species with greater reproductive isolation and that it would possess derivative characteristics such as a short life cycle (annual or biannual), high percentage of cleistogamy and a very wide geographic distribution. Quite the contrary, B. bonariensis would be the most primitive one, being perennial, strictly chasmogamous and with a restricted geographical and ecological distribution. B. parodii (perennial) and B. brevis (shortly perennial or annual) would occupy an intermediate position. The biosystematic data presented here support the species rank for the studied entities.
23226711|Several species of alkalophilic and alkali-tolerant soil Ascomycota were isolated and reported here, namely: Emericellopsis minima; Melanospora zamiae; Neosartorya stramenia; Neurospora tetrasperma; Talaromyces flavus var. flavus; Talaromyces trachyspermus; Talaromyces stipitatus and Westerdykella dispersa. Neosartorya stramenia, Neurospora tetrasperma and Westerdykella dispersa were recorded for the first time for Argentina. Se informa sobre 8 especies de Ascomycota alcaloflicos y alcalino-tolerantes de suelo: Emericellopsis minima; Melanospora zamiae; Neosartorya stramenia; Neurospora tetrasperma; Talaromyces flavus var. flavus; Talaromyces trachyspermus; Talaromyces stipitatus y Westerdykella dispersa. Neosartorya stramenia, Neurospora tetrasperma y Westerdykella dispersa son nuevos registros para Argentina.
23228353|Se estudiaron las modalidades de aprovechamiento de las plantas entre los Selknam de Tierra del Fuego (Argentina) y se presentan aqu los resultados obtenidos a partir del anlisis de los restos de madera carbonizada y sin carbonizar del sitito Ewan, ocupado a principios del siglo XX para la realizacin de un ritual de iniciacin. Los resultados permitieron una mejor comprensin de las estrategias de aprovechamiento de las plantas entre las sociedades cazadoras-recolectoras. La identificacin de las especies empleadas y el registro de las principales caractersticas morfomtricas permiti documentar el aprovechamiento del "ire" (Nothofagus antarctica). Esta especie, dominante en el entorno, fue utilizada para la construccin de la vivienda y como combustible. En ambos casos se seleccionaron troncos de forma y tamao adecuados. Los resultados del trabajo arqueobotnico y su confrontacin con los datos etnogrficos evidenciaron la importancia de los recursos vegetales dentro de la dinmica socioeconmica de este grupo humano. Los recursos vegetales, ms all de su rol alimentario, fueron relevantes en otros aspectos tales como la tecnologa, la construccin, el combustible y debieron constituir una ventaja considerable en el mbito de los bosques de la zona central de Tierra del Fuego. We studied the different ways of plant use among the Selknam from Tierra del Fuego (Argentina). In this paper we present the results obtained from the study of carbonized and non carbonized wood remains recovered at Ewan site, which was occupied at the beginning of the XXth century to celebrate an initiation ceremony. Results allowed a better understanding of the strategies of plant use in hunter-gatherer societies. The identification of the species used, and the analysis of their principal morphometric characteristics characterize the use of the "ire" (Nothofagus antarctica). This species, dominant in the surroundings, was used to build the dwelling as well as for fuel. For both uses, stems with suitable form and size were selected. Archaeobotanical results and their confrontation with the ethnographic data support the importance of vegetable resources within the socio-economic dynamics of the selknam society. Vegetable resources, beyond their use as food, were important in other aspects, such as technology, hut construction, fuel, and they certainly represented a considerable advantage in the area of the forests of the central zone of Tierra del Fuego.
23223010|A taxonomic revision of the genus Bomarea Mirb. in Argentina is presented. Four species under three subgenera are considered: Bomarea edulis (Tussac) Herb., subgenus Bomarea; B. macrocephala Pax, subgenus Wichuraea (M. Roemer) Baker and B. boliviensis Baker and B. stans Krnzl., subgenus Sphaerine (Herb.) Baker. B. ovata (Cav.) Mirb., an Andean species from Peru and Bolivia, is here chosen as lectotype for Bomarea. Also, lectotypes for the subgenera are designed: Sphaerine lectotype = S. distichifolia (distichophylla) Ruiz et Pav.; Wichuraea lectotype = W. involucrosa (Herb.) M. Roemer. Two taxa, B. boliviensis ( = Alstroemeria parviflora Ravenna, new synonym) and B. stans, are cited for the first time for Argentina. The distribution of B. edulis, until now only known for the NE, is amplified to NW provinces. B. macrocephala (Alstroemeria macrocephala (Pax) Hunz.) is rehabilited for the genus and lectotypified. The species are described and illustrated. A brief description of vegetative anatomy, pollen grains and, fruit and seed morphology is added. These anatomical and morphological characters contribute to differenciate the genus Bomarea from Alstroemeria.
23215667|A series of critical observations on Grasses from Patagonia with several new names, new species or varieties. The genus Rytidosperma Steud. is recognized and Notodanthonia Zotov synonymised with it. A new species: Rytidosperma sorianoi is described.
23222994|Nineteen taxa of Cyanophyta, Hormogonophycideae new for Argentina, found in freshwater of Tierra del Fuego, are described and illustrated. These are: Hapalosiphon aureus West et G. S. West, H. hibernicus West et G. S. West, H. welwitschii West et G. S. West var. vaginatus S. L. Ghose, Scytonema bohneri Schmidle, S. multiramosum N. L. Gardner, Microchaete catenata Lemmerm., Calothryx africana Schmidle, Anabaena augstumalis Schmidle var. incrassata (Nyggard) Geitler, A. catenula Bornet et Flahault var. intermedia B. M. Griffiths, A. circinalis Rabenh. var. macrospora (Wittr.) Forti, A. fuellebornii Schmidle forma, A. iyengarii, Bharadwaja, A. jonssoni J. B. Petersen, A. macrospora Kleb. var. gracilis Lemmerm. forma, Oscillatoria amphigranulata Goor, O. griseoviolaceae Skuja forma, O. meslini Frmy forma, Pseudanabaena articulata Skuja forma and Spirulina massartii (Kuff.) Geitler.
23217317|Chromosome size, nuclear volume and DNA content in Bulnesia (Zygophyllaceae). Bulnesia comprises eight species, seven of them are diploid (2n = 26) and one (B. bonariensis) is polyploid (2n = 104) with regular meiotic chromosome behavior (52 bivalents). The diploids have significant differences in karyotype symmetry, total chromosome length (TCL), nuclear volume (NV) and DNA content. Those with highest (B. retama, B. chilensis) and lowest DNA content (B. sarmientoi) possess the most asymmetrical karyotypes and several morphological and physiological specializations. Apparently and, contrary to other groups, in Bulnesia both modifications of DNA content (increase, decrease) would occur together and would have been accompanied with drastic alterations of the karyotype. Disjunct populations of B. retama from Ica (Per) and La Rioja (Argentina) were compared and no differences were found in their total chromosome length (TCL) and other karyotype parameters despite small but significant differences in DNA content, seed size and seed proteins patterns found by previous authors. Both populations have a small metacentric pair of chromosomes, devoid of heterochromatin, and this suggests that heterochromatin is not distributed at random. The ratio DNA content/NV is lower in the octoploid B. bonariensis than in the diploids; this could indicate a relatively high nuclear volume in the octoploid. NV is positively correlated with TCL (r = 0.96) and with DNA content (r = 0.86). DNA content and TCL also show positive correlation (r = 0.72), although B. retama and B. chilensis show a higher DNA content than expected, on the basis of their respective TCL values. This could be due to the fact that both species have the highest percentage of heterochromatin (demostrated by C-banding). The tighter heterochromatin coiling may explain the higher DNA content per unit of chromosome length of these two species. High DNA content could produce rapid growth because fewer cells are required to make up a given volume of tissue. This could be highly adaptive in xeric environments where B. retama and B. chilensis are found. Bulnesia comprende ocho especies, siete diploides (2n = 26) y una poliploide (B. bonariensis, 2n = 104) con comportamiento meitico regular (52 bivalentes). Los diploides poseen diferencias significativas en simetra del cariotipo, longitud cromosmica total (TCL), volumen nuclear (NV) y contenido de ADN. Las especies con mayor (B. retama, B. chilensis) y menor contenido de ADN (B. sarmientoi) poseen diversas especializaciones morfolgicas y fisiolgicas y muestran los cariotipos ms asimtricos del gnero. A diferencia de otros grupos, en Bulnesia se habran producido disminucin y aumento en el contenido de ADN, acompaadas de drsticas alteraciones del cariotipo. Se compararon dos poblaciones disyuntas de B. retama de Ica (Per) y La Rioja (Argentina), que no presentaron diferencias en la longitud del cariotipo y otros parmetros cariotpicos a pesar de que en estudios anteriores de otros autores se han encontrado pequeas pero significativas diferencias en el contenido de ADN, tamao de la semilla y protenas seminales. Ambas poblaciones poseen un par de cromosomas pequeos metacntricos desprovistos de heterocromatina, lo cual indicara que la heterocromatina no estara distribuida al azar. La relacin contenido de ADN/volumen nuclear es menor en el octoploide B. bonariensis que en los diploides; esto podra indicar un volumen relativamente mayor en el octoploide. El volumen nuclear est positivamente correlacionado con la longitud total de los cromosomas (r = 0,96) y con el contenido de ADN (r = 0,86). El contenido de ADN y la longitud total de los cromosomas muestran una correlacin positiva (r = 0,72), aunque B. retama y B. chilensis poseen mayor contenido de ADN que el esperado sobre la base de sus respectivas longitudes cromosmicas. Esto se debera a que ambas especies tienen el mayor porcentaje de heterocromatina, lo cual fue demostrado por tcnicas de bandeo C. El mayor contenido de ADN por unidad de longitud cromosmica se explicara por la mayor espiralizacin que posee la heterocromatina. Un alto contenido de ADN podra producir crecimiento rpido debido a que un volumen dado de tejido se alcanza con un menor nmero de clulas. Esto podra ser altamente adaptativo en ambientes xricos donde se encuentran B. retama y B. chilensis.
23213050|Contribution to the knowledge of the neotropical "Salviniaceae".  I. Salvinia oblongifolia Martius. This is the first from a series of papers dealing with the comparative study of all neotropical species of Salvinia. In the first part, the author comments the systematic position of all the species mentioned so far for tropical America. In the second part, the morphology and structure of the sporophyte and its reproductive organs of Salvinia oblongifolia are studied. This species lives in the center-north and NE of Brazil.
23223224|The pollen of Paspalum unispicatum (Scribn. et Mer.) Nash shows some anomalous types, such as: dyads and tetrads with partially divided monads, inaperturates, anomalous monoaperturates, biaperturates and triaperturates grains. In this paper the morphometric features of "normal" and anomalous pollen grains were compared, and their potential viability tested with aceto-carmine coloration. A comparative analysis of the pollen of upper and lower flowers showed that the abnormalities are independent of the position of the flowers. These anomalous types were also found in Paspalum decumbens Rottb., and Paspalum urvillei Steud. The anomalous pollen grains probably result from meiotic chromosome abnormalities in these tetraploid species.
23225101|The Lower Delta of Paran river in Buenos Aires is a wide costal freshwater wetland of 2,071 km2. In this study, native, herbaceous plant communities of the Lower Delta islands were identified and described in order to propose a conceptual model for the interpretation of the spatial distribution of plant communities. The main hypothesis was that the hydrological regime and the landscape pattern are key factors determining the regional heterogeneity and conditioning the presence and abundance of species and plant communities. Values of cover-abundance for each species were estimated in 177 plots placed in 21 sites in the region. Soil samples were also taken. A total of 62 species and 19 plant communities were identified. Plant communities form a heterogeneous mosaic and they are characterized by a low species richness and the dominance of few graminoid type plants and even less representation of broadleaf plants. The presence and distribution of plant communities in the area are determined by two main factors: (1) the water permanence related to the position along the topographic gradient, and (2) the origin and dynamical action of the water supply, both affected mainly by the connection with the main water channels and the location of plots in relation to the regional gradient of the fluvial estuary. El sector bonaerense del Bajo Delta del Ro Paran conforma un extenso humedal costero de agua dulce sometido a mareas (2.700 km2). El presente trabajo se propuso identificar y describir las comunidades de herbceas nativas de las islas y proponer un modelo conceptual que permita interpretar la expresin espacial de las mismas. Se parti de la hiptesis de que el rgimen hidrolgico y el patrn de paisaje son los factores principales que determinan la heterogeneidad de la regin y condicionan la presencia y abundancia de las especies y comunidades vegetales. En 21 sitios de muestreo se realizaron un total de 177 censos en los que se identificaron 62 especies, se estim la abundancia-cobertura por especie y se tomaron muestras de suelo. Se delimitaron 19 comunidades vegetales que conforman un mosaico heterogneo, se caracterizan por su baja riqueza especfica y la dominancia de unas pocas especies de tipo graminoide y en menor medida de latifoliadas. La presencia diferencial de las comunidades en la regin y su composicin especfica se relacion con dos factores principales de variacin. El primero fue la permanencia del agua relacionado con la posicin topogrfica de los censos, el segundo correspondi al grado de conexin de las comunidades con los cursos de agua principales y por su localizacin con relacin al macrogradiente de influencia fluvial-esturica regional.
23230217|Although Grewioideae is known as the only stenopalynous subfamily of Malvaceae, previous published pollen analyses suggest morphological variation. To test if that structural variation could have taxonomic value, pollen morphology of 16 species of the genera Corchorus, Heliocarpus, Luehea, Mollia and Triumfetta (Malvaceae, Grewioideae) distributed in southern South America was analysed by light and scanning electron microscopy. Pollen grains are 3-zonocolporate, isopolar, radially symmetrical, subspheroidal to prolate, and medium to large in size. Exine sculpture varies from a bireticulate reticulum with perforated lumina to densely tectate-rugulate or tectate-microreticulate. Pollen morphological characteristics from light microscopy were used in a multivariate analysis to assess variation within and among the genera. Principal components analyses (PCA) clearly separate five groups based on pollen shape and size, colpus length, endoaperture height and width, and exine thickness. The species here studied share the Grewia pollen type, like most species of Grewioideae and Byttnerioideae, but the palynological characters analyzed have little taxonomic value at genus or species level. Aunque Grewioideae es conocida como la nica subfamilia estenopalnica de Malvaceae, los anlisis de polen publicados sugieren una variacin morfolgica. Para comprobar si la variacin estructural podra tener valor taxonmico, la morfologa del polen de 16 especies de los gneros Corchorus, Heliocarpus, Luehea, Mollia y Triumfetta (Malvaceae, Grewioideae) distribuidas en la regin austral de Amrica del Sur fue analizada con microscopa ptica y electrnica de barrido. Los granos de polen son 3-zonocolporados, isopolares, radiosimtricos, subesferoidales a prolatos y de tamao mediano a grande. La escultura de la exina vara desde un birretculo con perforaciones en el lumen a un tectum densamente rugulado o microrreticulado. Los caracteres morfolgicos de polen obtenidos con microscopio ptico fueron utilizados en un anlisis multivariado para evaluar la variabilidad dentro y entre los gneros. El anlisis de componentes principales (PCA) permiti diferenciar cinco grupos sobre la base de forma y tamao del grano, largo del colpo, ancho y alto de la endoabertura y espesor de la exina. Las especies estudiadas comparten el polen tipo Grewia caracterstico de la mayora de las especies de Grewioideae y Byttnerioideae, pero los caracteres polnicos analizados son de reducido valor diagnstico a nivel genrico y/o especfico.
23230241|A new record for the Argentinean flora, Samanea tubulosa, is described and illustrated. The specimens were collected in Oran, Salta Province, Argentina, in the "Selvas Pedemontanas" district of the "Yungas" phytogeographic province. Comments on the systematic position of the species and related genera are given. Se describe e ilustra Samanea tubulosa, una nueva cita genrica y especfica para la flora argentina. Las colecciones fueron realizadas en Orn, provincia de Salta, Argentina, en el Distrito de las Selvas Pedemontanas de la Provincia Fitogeogrfica de las Yungas. Se realizan comentarios sobre la posicin sistemtica de la especie y su relacin con los gneros afines.
darwiniana.2.2.222|
               
23216545|The author presents a taxonomic revision of the genus Ficus (Moraceae), as represented in the flora of Argentina. The eight recognized species are keyed, described and illustrated. In all instances a complete synonymy and a list of all the herbarium material examined has been given.
23212167|El autor describe una nueva especie de Kochia (K. Parodii Aell.) de la Argentina, que tambin se halla entre adventicias exticas en Alsacia. Describe la especie, dando las diferencias con K. scoparia (L.) Schrad., que es vecina, y distingue 4 variedades nuevas de K. Parodii, todas procedentes de Buenos Aires, este de La Pampa y sur de Santa Fe. Notas crticas sobre Kochia scoparia terminan el artculo.  A. B.
23223875|The genus Baccharis is represented in Argentina by 96 species, the infrageneric classification of which is presented in this paper. A succinct summary of the history of Baccharis infrageneric taxonomy is provided. The 96 Argentine species are placed into 15 sections: Angustifoliae, Aristidentes, Baccharis, Caulopterae, Cuneifoliae, Cylindricae, Discolores, Molinae, Nitidae, Oblongifoliae, Paniculatae, Pedicellatae, Pseudobaccharis, Subliguliflorae -sect. nov.- and Trinervatae. These sections are briefly described, and a key to differentiate them is given. Twelve out of the 96 species are positioned into the infrageneric classification system for the first time, whereas 42 species which had been previously classified are here relocated to other sections. Twenty-two generic, subgeneric, sectional and subsectional names are considered as new synonyms. The relationships among the sections are discussed. El gnero Baccharis se halla representado en la Argentina por 96 especies, cuya clasificacin infragenrica se estudia en este artculo. Se realiza una breve revisin de la historia de la taxonoma infragenrica de Baccharis. Las especies argentinas son ubicadas en 15 secciones: Angustifoliae, Aristidentes, Baccharis, Caulopterae, Cuneifoliae, Cylindricae, Discolores, Molinae, Nitidae, Oblongifoliae, Paniculatae, Pedicellatae, Pseudobaccharis, Subliguliflorae -sect. nov.- y Trinervatae. Se describe brevemente cada una de estas secciones, y se provee una clave que permite diferenciarlas. Doce de las 96 especies son colocadas por primera vez dentro del sistema de clasificacin infragenrica; en tanto otras 42, que ya haban sido clasificadas previamente, son reubicadas en otras secciones. Son considerados como nuevos sinnimos 22 nombres de gneros, subgneros, secciones y subsecciones. Se discuten las relaciones entre las secciones.
23215602|Studies on in-vitro germination of pollen grains and pollen tube growth in Arachis aff. villosa, A. pintoi, A. glabrata, A. aff. benthamii and A. lignosa have been made. The "hanging drop" method was used. The effect of sucrose, maltose, glucose and boric acid was studied in various concentrations. The best germinative substratum was composed of sucrose (15-20 %) + boric acid (100 ppm + agar 0,5 %). In order to obtain maximum results, pollen grains should remain between 6 to 12 hours in the germinator. Longevity on the grains in natural condition durings the complete day in which the dehiscence of the anthers is produced, was also studied.
23215732|The ovule and seed of Victoria cruziana D'Orb. are described, particularly in relation to the aril and opercular region. A description of the seedling up to the stage of nomophyll emergence is also given. The growth and duration of adult leaves are discussed and date of stomatode density are presented and the functions of these structures explained.
23215727|In this paper we communicate the discovery of Cyperus iria L., a new adventicious specie for our Flora.
23228254|The new name Keratochlaena replaces the illegitimate name Sclerochlamys, an endemic genus from Brazil. El nuevo nombre Keratochlaena es establecido para reemplazar el nombre ilegtimo Sclerochlamys, gnero endmico de Brasil.
23612310|The genus Pohlia is reported as a new record for Uruguay, where it is represented by two species: P. wahlenbergii and P. humilis (=P. tenuifolia). Pohlia humilis is also recorded as new for Colombia. We propose P. loriformis, a poorly known species described from Bolivia, as new synonym of P. humilis. We select lectotypes for P. loriformis and Mielichhoferia brachycarpa. We also include a key to the Pohlia species from Uruguay, and the South American synonyms, brief comments, distribution, and illustrations for P. humilis. El gnero Pohlia se presenta como un nuevo registro para Uruguay, donde est representado por dos especies: P. wahlenbergii y P. humilis (=P. tenuifolia). Pohlia humilis tambin se registra por primera vez para Colombia. Se propone a P. loriformis, una especie poco conocida descrita para Bolivia, como un nuevo sinnimo de P. humilis. Se designan lectotipos para P. loriformis y Mielichhoferia brachycarpa. Se presenta una clave para las especies de Pohlia de Uruguay y se indican, para P. humilis, los sinnimos de Amrica del Sur, comentarios breves, su distribucin e ilustraciones.
23215546|Four new species of Orchidaceae for the flora of Argentina, belonging to four genera, known up to now only from Brasil, are described and illustrated. These species: Corymborchis flava (Sw.) O. Kuntze, Lankesterella ceracifolia (Barb. Rodr.) O. Ames, Pleurobotryum atropurpureum Barb. Rodr. and Isabelia virginalis Barb. Rodr., grow in the subtropical rain forest of Misiones, the most eastern province bordering Brasil.
23218921|Taxonomic novelties from the flora of Jujuy, II: A new species of Dicliptera (Acanthaceae). Dicliptera cabrerae, a new species from the region of Volcn, Jujuy, is described and illustrated. The differences with D. tweediana Nees, D. jujuyensis Lindau and D. scutellata Griseb., the three other species of Dicliptera present in northwestern Argentina, are discussed.
23226716|The first record of Sessea regnellii for the argentinian flora is presented. A description, illustration, and ecological observations for this species are given. Se cita por primera vez a Sessea regnelli para la flora argentina. Se presenta una descripcin de la especie sobre la base de los ejemplares examinados, como as tambin ilustraciones y observaciones ecolgicas.
23215670|This paper deals with a taxonomic study of Cyanophyta epiphytic on submerged plants in the following ponds: Chascoms, El Burro, Yalca and Vitel. Keys are given for the identification of the 3 orders, 5 families, 11 enera and 24 species found. The taxa are described and the species illustrated. Eigth species are described for the first time for Argentina.
23216495|This paper deals with the leaf anatomical characters (including the epidermical ones) of two genera of the Eragrosteae (Gramineae) inhabiting the Argentine Republic; in all 5 species and 6 varieties (one of them is considered new to science) are studied and illustrated in relation to their anatomical characters. The species and varieties studied are the following; 1. Tridens brasiliensis Nees. 2. Tridens hackeli (Arech.) Parodi. 3. Tridens nicorae Anton. 4. Erioneuron pilosum var. mendocinum (L. R. Parodi) Nicora. 5. Erioneuron pilosum var. longearistatum (Kurtz) Anton. 6. Erioneuron pilosum var. parodianum Snchez. 7. Erioneuron avenaceum var. longiglume (L. R. Parodi) Anton. 8. Erioneuron avenaceum var. pygmaeum (Hackel) Anton. 9. Erioneuron avenaceum var. kurtzianum (L. R. Parodi) Anton.
23223911|Adiantum comprises seventeen taxa in Argentina: Adiantum chilense Kaulf., A. chilense var. scabrum (Kaulf.) Hicken, A. chilense var. sulphureum (Hook.) Giudice comb. nov., A. digitatum C. Presl ex Hook., A. filiforme Gardn., A. latifolium Lam., A. lorentzii Hieron., A. macrophyllum Sw., A. orbignyanum Mett. ex Kuhn, A. pectinatum Kuntze ex Ettingh., A. pseudotinctum Hieron., A. raddianum C. Presl, A. serratodentatum Willd., A. tetraphyllum Willd., A. thalictroides Willd. ex Schltdl., A. thalictroides f. bottini Giudice & Nieto y A. thalictroides var. hirsutum (Hook. & Grev.) de la Sota. A dichotomus key, descriptions, synonym and geographic distribution are also given. El gnero Adiantum L. est representado en Argentina por diecisiete taxones: Adiantum chilense Kaulf., A. chilense var. scabrum (Kaulf.) Hicken, A. chilense var. sulphureum (Hook) Giudice comb. nov., A. digitatum C. Presl ex Hook., A. filiforme Gardn., A. latifolium Lam., A. lorentzii Hieron., A. macrophyllum Sw., A. orbignyanum Mett. ex Kuhn, A. pectinatum Kuntze ex Ettingh., A. pseudotinctum Hieron., A. raddianum C. Presl, A. serrato-dentatum Willd., A. tetraphyllum Willd., A. thalictroides Willd. ex Schltdl., A. thalictroides f. bottini Giudice & Nieto y A. thalictroides var. hirsutum (Hook. & Grev.) de la Sota. Se presenta en este trabajo una clave para la determinacin de los taxones, as como las descripciones, sinonimias y distribuciones geogrficas correspondientes.
23218934|Meiotic behavior in the artificial hybrid Elytrigia scabrifolia  E. scabriglumis (Gramineae). The meiotic behavior in the pentaploid hybrid (2n = 35) Elytrigia scabrifolia (Doell) Covas ex J. H. Hunz. et Xifreda (2n = 28)  E. scabriglumis (Haeckel) Covas ex J. H. Hunz. et Xifreda (2n = 42) was studied. At Metaphase I the following mean chromosome associations per cell were found: 0.008 V, 0.28 IV, 1.58 III, 7.99 II, 13.09 I, 1.15 closed bivalents, 13.6 chiasmata (123 cells). The two hybrid plants were vigorous, morphologically intermediate between their parental species and completely sterile. Chromosome homologies are assumed to be rather low and no complete genome homologies are evident. Chromosome data are compared to similar ones found in the E. tilcarensis (J. H. Hunz.) Covas ex J. H. Hunz. et Xifreda  E. scabrifolia hybrid. General considerations are made on the taxonomy and genome diversification of the Triticeae. Comportamiento meitico en el hbrido artificial Elytrigia scabrifolia  E. scabriglumis (Gramineae). Se estudi el comportamiento meitico en el hbrido pentaploide (2n = 35) Elytrigia scabrifolia (2n = 28)  E. scabriglumis (2n = 42). En Metafase I mostr los siguientes promedios de asociaciones cromosmicas por clula: 0,008 V, 0,28 IV, 1,58 III, 7,99 II, 13,09 I, 1,15 bivalentes cerrados, 13,6 quiasmas (123 clulas). Las dos plantas hbridas obtenidas resultaron vigorosas, morfolgicamente intermedias entre sus progenitores y completamente estriles. Las homologas cromosmicas seran bajas y no habra evidencias de homologas de genomios enteros. Se comparan los datos cromosmicos obtenidos con los del hbrido E. tilcarensis  E. scabrifolia. Se hacen consideraciones generales acerca de la taxonoma de las Triticeae y de la diversificacin de sus genomios.
23226842|A surface spreading and air-drying method to obtain for the first time the somatic karyotype of a population of Guazuma ulmifolia var. ulmifolia was used. Chromosome diploid number of 2n = 16 from meristematic root cells was confirmed. Mitotic karyotype was 14m + 2st with a slight asymmetry (T.F.% = 42.19). Total haploid chromosome length was 11.65 m with a chromosomal interval of 1.11 - 2.05 m. Nucleolar organizers were associated to secondary constrictions on the pair 3 (m), and a polymorphism was observed on the pair 8 (st). These two features could be employed as cytogenetic markers in future studies for other species and varieties of the genus. Se utiliz una metodologa de extendido en superficie y secado al aire para obtener por vez primera el cariotipo somtico de una poblacin de Guazuma ulmifolia var. ulmifolia. El nmero cromosmico diploide 2n = 16 obtenido a partir de meristemos radiculares confirma recuentos anteriores. La frmula cariotpica fue 14m + 2st con una ligera asimetra (T.F.% = 42,19). La longitud cromosmica total haploide fue de 11,65 m con un intervalo cromosmico de 1,11 - 2,05 m. Los organizadores nucleolares asociados a constricciones secundarias ubicados en el par 3 (m) y el polimorfismo que exhibe el par 8 (st) pueden ser empleados como marcadores citogenticos en futuros estudios de otras especies y variedades del gnero.
23213807|The author describes two species of Rafflesiaceae, a family heretofore not known from Uruguay and only once cited from Entre Ros: Pilostyles blanchetii (Gardn.) R. Br., on branches of Bauhinia candicans Benth., and P. caliandrae (Gardn.) R. Br. on Mimosa uruguensis Hook. et Arn. For the sake of comparison, Pilostyles ingae (Karst.) Hook. y P. mexicana (Brand.) Rose are also briefly described. With 2 figs. and 1 plate.
23226719|This first revision of the genus Deyeuxia in Argentina revealed 58 native taxa from America, three of them endemic to Argentina, and the remaining ones also growing in Bolivia, Brasil and Chile. Three new taxa are described for science: Deyeuxia alba subsp. breviaristata (Argentina, Brasil and Uruguay); Deyeuxia heterophylla var. puberilemma (Per); Deyeuxia trichodonta var. hirsuta from (Argentina: Salta). The following taxa are new records for Argentina, Bolivia, Chile and Ecuador: Deyeuxia brevifolia var. brevifolia and Deyeuxia brevifolia var. expansa (Chile); Deyeuxia cabrerae var. cabrerae, D. cabrerae var. aristulata (Chile); D. cabrerae var. trichopoda (Chile); Deyeuxia curta (Ecuador); D. diemii (Chile); Deyeuxia filifolia (Chile); Deyeuxia hackelii (Chile); Deyeuxia minima (Argentina and Ecuador); Deyeuxia sclerantha (Ecuador); Deyeuxia spicigera var. spicigera Chile); Deyeuxia spicigera var. cephalotes (Argentina) and Deyeuxia trichodonta var. trichodonta (Bolivia). The new name Deyeuxia nana, for Agrostis caespitosa, and the following new combinations are established: Deyeuxia reitzii, Deyeuxia rupestris f. pilosa, Deyeuxia rupestris var. minor, D. tarmensis var. macrochaeta, and Deyeuxia velutina var. nardifolia. New synonyms are established for Deyeuxia heterophylla (Calamagrostis mulleri, Calamagrostis macbridei); Deyeuxia rupestris f. pilosa (Calamagrostis leonardii, Calamagrostis longearistata f. pilosa) and Calamagrostis epigeios (Calamagrostis chilensis). This revision includes a critical evaluation of morphological characters (some of them studied by SEM) with taxonomic value at the generic and species level, and relationships among Deyeuxia and its closest genera are discussed. Nomenclatural considerations about problematic taxa, keys to Deyeuxia and related genera, and also to the species and subspecific taxa, descriptions, synonyms, illustrations, geographical distribution, ecological observations and vernacular names for every species are presented in detail. En esta primera revisin del gnero Deyeuxia para la Argentina se reconocen 58 taxones nativos de Amrica, tres de ellos son endmicos de la Argentina, y los restantes tambin crecen en Bolivia, Brasil y Chile. Se describen tres nuevos taxones para la ciencia: Deyeuxia alba subsp. breviaristata (Argentina, Brasil y Uruguay); Deyeuxia heterophylla var. puberilemma (Per); Deyeuxia trichodonta var. hirsuta (Argentina: Salta). Se establece un nuevo nombre: Deyeuxia nana, para en Agrostis caespitosa. Las siguientes once entidades constituyen nuevas citas para Argentina, Bolivia, Chile y Ecuador: Deyeuxia brevifolia var. brevifolia y Deyeuxia brevifolia var. expansa (Chile); Deyeuxia cabrerae var. cabrerae, D. cabrerae var. aristulata (Chile); D. cabrerae var. trichopoda (Chile); Deyeuxia curta (Ecuador); Deyeuxia filifolia (Chile); D. diemii (Chile); Deyeuxia filifolia (Chile); Deyeuxia hackelii (Chile); Deyeuxia minima (Argentina y Ecuador); Deyeuxia sclerantha (Ecuador); Deyeuxia spicigera var. spicigera (Chile); Deyeuxia spicigera var. cephalotes (Argentina) y Deyeuxia trichodonta var. trichodonta (Bolivia). Se establecen cinco nuevas combinaciones: Deyeuxia reitzii, Deyeuxia rupestris f. pilosa., Deyeuxia rupestris var. minor, D. tarmensis var. macrochaeta y Deyeuxia velutina var. nardifolia. Se adicionan nuevos sinnimos en las siguientes entidades: Deyeuxia heterophylla (Calamagrostis mulleri, Calamagrostis macbridei); Deyeuxia rupestris f. pilosa (Calamagrostis leonardii, Calamagrostis longearistata f. pilosa) y Calamagrostis epigeios (Calamagrostis chilensis). Esta revisin incluye una evaluacin crtica de los caracteres morfolgicos (algunos estudiados con MEB) con valor taxonmico para Deyeuxia y sus especies aqu estudiadas, como tambin una discusin de las relaciones de Deyeuxia con sus gneros ms afines. Se presentan en detalle consideraciones nomenclaturales sobre taxones problemticos, claves dicotmicas para distinguir Deyeuxia de sus gneros afines, y para sus especies y taxones infraespecficos de Argentina, descripciones, sinnimos, ilustraciones, distribucin geogrfica, observaciones ecolgicas y nombres vernculos para cada especie.
23215741|The paper consists of a floristic and estructural description of a forest stand of Nothofagus dombeyi ("coihue") in the Lago Gutirrez area in the southern andean region of Argentina. Five strata are recognized: two tree layers, a tall shrub-small tree stratum, a small shrub stratum and a herbaceous one. Plant species per strata are listed with its importance values. Trees more than 10 cm dbh, were studied by quarter point technique; saplings, seedlings, shrubs and herbs were recorded in frequency and density quadrats. A diametric classes pyramid of N. dombeyi is made to analyze the population structure of the dominant tree, and an attempt is made to explain the dynamical aspects of this population, the abiotic factors (light intensity, summer drought, aridization of climate) that affect it and the role of the species in the forests where it occurs.
23225128|A catalogue of the Cactaceae type material of Carlos Luis Spegazzini (1858-1926) deposited in the Herbarium of Museo de La Plata (LP), Argentina, is presented. Spegazzini's collection of vascular plant types includes ca. 700 specimens. This analysis revealed 93 type specimens and photographs of the specimens of the family Cactaceae, 70 of which are deposited in LP. This article includes a list of original names arranged alphabetically, the current names with authors, the original citation or protologue, the exsiccatae followed by the type category, the photographs of the specimens taken by Spegazzini, and all significant observations. In addition, some photographs of living specimens taken by Spegazzini and a list of specimens not found in LP were also included. Se presenta un catlogo del material tipo de Cactaceae de Carlos Luis Spegazzini (1858-1926) depositado en el Herbario del Museo de La Plata (LP), Argentina. La coleccin de tipos de plantas vasculares de Spegazzini alcanza ca. 700 especmenes. El anlisis de la familia Cactaceae dio como resultado 93 especmenes y/o fotografas, de los cuales 70 se hallan depositados en LP. El tratamiento incluye una lista de los nombres originales ordenados alfabticamente, los nombres actuales con autores, la cita original o protlogo, la exsiccata seguida por la categora del tipo, las fotografas tomadas por Spegazzini, y observaciones consideradas relevantes. Adems, se proporcionan algunas fotografas de especmenes vivos tomadas por Spegazzini y una lista de los especmenes que no se encontraron en LP.
darwiniana.2.1.74|In this paper we characterized and analyzed microscopically starch grains of eight
23222964|Cluster analysis (UPGMA), a minimum spanning tree and ordination by principal component analysis (PCA) were used to study phenetic relationships in the genus Azorella. Lam. Twenty-six species were scored for 46 morphological characters. The results of different methods agree in the formation of 4 groups of closely related species, which partially match the previous classification of Hauman: "Group A" includes, A. filamentosa Lam., A. fuegiana Speg. (sect. Plumosae Hauman) and A. ameghinoi Speg. (sect. Squamulosae Hauman); "Group B" is formed by A. biloba (Schldl.) Wedd., A. compacta Phil., A. crassipes Phil, A. monantha Clos, A. patagonica Speg., A. trifoliolata Clos, A. trifurcata (Gaertn.) Pers. (sect. Ciliatae Hauman), A. madreporica Clos. (Sect. Cirrhosae Hauman), A. aretioides DC, A. corymbosa (R. & P.) Pers., A. crenata (R. & P.) Pers., A. cuatrecasasii Math. & Const., A. diapensioides A. Gray, A. diversifolia Clos, A. julianii Math. & Const., A. monteroi Martinez y Constance, A. multifida (R. & P.) Pers., A. pedunculata (Spreng.) Math. & Const. and A. pulvinata Wedd. (foreign species, not considered by Hauman); "Group C" comprises A. cryptantha (Clos) Reiche and A. spinosa (R. & P.) Pers. (species not studied by Hauman); "Group D" includes A. selago Hook. f. (sect. Cirrhosae Hauman) and A. lycopodioides Gaud (sect. Glabratae Hauman).
23216529|A new species of Rhynchosia, R. naineckensis from northern Argentina and Paraguay is described and illustrated. A key and a table of differential characters with related species is given.
23213868|En este trabajo se reconocen quince especies vlidas de Hypolytrum para la Amrica tropical, agrupadas en cuatro secciones. Los estudios sistemticos discutidos aqu estn basados principalmente en una serie de colecciones hechas en numerosas expediciones botnicas organizadas por el New York Botanical Garden. Las discusiones de nomenclatura estn basadas, con nfasis particular, en los estudios de material tipo realizados por el autor en los herbarios europeos, fue su visita patrocinada por la National Foundation de los Estados Unidos, bajo el  Grant  nmero GB-7137. Se propone aqu la especie nueva Hypolytrum verticillatum, del sur del Brasil. La seccin nueva Bullata se propone para acomodar la especie Hypolytrum bullatum. Esta revisin amplia del gnero Hypolytrum en Amrica es la primera desde los tiempos de Nees (1S42).
23218136|A new species of Heliotropium (Boraginaceae) for the flora of Argentina. The authors report Heliotropium hasslerianum for the first time in Argentina. The species is described and illustrated, including anatomical characteristics of the leaves. It has the typical leaf anatomy of plants having the C4 type photosynthetic carbon fixation pathway (Kranz structure).
23230239|Gymnosiphon divaricatus (Burmanniaceae), a small myco-heterotrophic herb, is recorded for the first time for the Argentinean flora in the province of Misiones. The species is described and illustrated, and ecological information is provided. Gymnosiphon divaricatus (Burmanniaceae), una pequea hierba mico-hetertrofa, se cita por primera vez para la Argentina en la provincia de Misiones. Se describe y se ilustra la especie y se brinda informacin ecolgica.
23230209|Peperomia nitida and P. armondii (Piperaceae, subgen. Rhyncophorum) are recorded for the first time for the Argentinean flora in the province of Misiones. The species are described and illustrated, and their geographical distributions are updated. A key to distinguish the Argentinean species of subgen. Rhyncophorum is included, and P. elongata is excluded from the Argentinean Flora. Peperomia nitida y P. armondii (Piperaceae, subgen. Rhyncophorum) se citan por primera vez para la flora argentina en la provincia de Misiones. Se describen e ilustran las especies y se actualizan sus respectivas distribuciones geogrficas. Se incluye una clave para distinguir a las especies argentinas del subgen. Rhyncophorum, y se excluye a P. elongata de la flora argentina.
23227129|This work describes the structure and composition of plant communities from four wetland located in the Copahue Provincial Park (Neuqun Province, Argentina). The study was performed according to the method of the Zrich - Montpellier phytosociological School. Plant communities were distributed along an altitudinal gradient within the inferior montane belt, ranging from 1,400 to 1,800 m. and relationships with the superior montane belt wetlands (1,800 to 2,300 m) were established based on their floristic composition. Four new associations and one subassociation, grouped in the new alliance Juncion lesueurii, arise from the analysis of the syntaxonomical interpretation. Se describe la estructura y composicion florstica de cuatro comunidades vegetales de los humedales del Parque Provincial Copahue (provincia de Neuqun, Argentina). El estudio se realiz de acuerdo con la metodologa de la escuela fitosociolgica de Zrich-Montpellier. Los humedales estudiados se distribuyen a lo largo de un gradiente altitudinal entre los 1.400 a 1.800 m s.m. (piso montano inferior). Se establece la relacin de estas nuevas comunidades vegetales con los humedales del piso montano superior (1.800 a 2.300 m s.m.) sobre la base de su composicin florstica. De la interpretacin cenosistemtica resultaron cuatro nuevas asociaciones y una subasociacin agrupadas en la nueva alianza Juncion leusueurii.
darwiniana.2.1.57|During biodiversity studies on micromycetes growing on bark and decorticated wood of
23230186|We evaluated the effect that nectar guides have on the efficiency in pollination of flowers in Alstroemeria aurea (Alstroemeriaceae), a herbaceous, xenogamous plant, which blooms in temperate forests of southern South America. The flowers were manipulated in situ and subjected to three treatments: flowers with nectar guides (FCG, not manipulated, control); flowers without nectar guides (FSG, flowers with nectar guides that were obscured) and control-control (CC, flowers in which the nectariferous tepals were covered by other nectariferous tepals to test the possible effect of double petals). The efficiency of pollination was evaluated as a function of visitation frequency, quantity of pollen deposited on the stigmas of visited flowers and quantity of accumulated nectar. Our results show that the absence of nectar guides significantly affected the efficiency of visits by pollinators ( = 18.97, df: 2, p <<0.004) the quantity of pollen grains deposited on stigmas (F = 19.39; Gl: 2, p <<0.0001) and the accumulated volume of nectar (F = 12.87, df: 2, p <<0.005). The FSG were less visited, received fewer pollen grains per stigma and had a higher volume of accumulated nectar, unlike the FCG and CC. About 90% of all floral visits were accomplished by Bombus ruderathus (84.11%) and B. dahlbomii (8.41 %), that possess well developed sensory perception (responding to nectar guide patterns in the flowers). We propose that the absence of nectar guides from the flowers of A. aurea, eliminated orientation patterns assisting visitors, indicating access to rewards, and consequently affected their pollination. Evaluamos el efecto de las guas de nctar sobre la eficiencia de polinizacin en las flores de Alstroemeria aurea (Alstroemeriaceae), una planta herbcea xengama, que florece en los bosques templados del sur de Sudamrica. Las flores fueron manipuladas "in situ" y sometidas a tres tratamientos: flores con guas (FCG, no manipuladas, control); flores sin guas (FSG, flores a las que se les cubrieron las guas) y control-control (CC, flores a las que se les cubrieron los tpalos nectarferos con otros tpalos nectarferos, evitando el posible efecto del doble ptalo). La eficiencia de polinizacin fue evaluada en funcin de la frecuencia de las visitas, la cantidad de polen depositado en los estigmas y la cantidad de nctar acumulado en las flores visitadas. Nuestros resultados demostraron que la ausencia de las guas de nctar afect de manera significativa la eficiencia de visitas de los polinizadores ( = 18.97; gl: 2; p<< 0.004), la cantidad de granos de polen depositados sobre los estigmas (F= 19.39; gl: 2; p<< 0.0001) y el volumen de nctar acumulado (F= 12.87; gl: 2; p<< 0.005). Las FSG fueron menos visitadas, obtuvieron menor cantidad de granos de polen por estigma y presentaron mayor volumen de nctar acumulado, a diferencia de las FCG y CC. Cerca del 90% de todas las visitas florales fueron realizadas por las especies Bombus ruderathus (84.11%) y B. dahlbomii (8.41%), consideradas especies con alto desarrollo sensorial, que responden a los patrones de las guas de nctar en las flores. Proponemos que la ausencia de las guas de nctar de las flores de A. aurea, elimin los patrones de orientacin que serva a los visitantes para indicar el acceso a la recompensa, y en consecuencia afect su polinizacin.
23227144|A new species of Uncinia (Cyperaceae), U. austroamericana, is described and illustrated from austral South America and from the Tristan da Cunha archipelago in the south-Atlantic Ocean. This species grows in persistently wet. base-poor sites, particularly in Sphagnum bogs, and is known from southern Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego, and from the largest island of the Tristan da Cunha group. It differs both morphologically and ecologically from the similar-appearing U. macrolepis, a minerotrophic species best known from moist depressions in grasslands. The new species differs morphologically from U. macrolepis by possessing achenes that, when mature, are pale-colored and conspicuously-thickened at the apex and, also, by having more or less lossely-flowered spikes that frequently exceed 2 cm in length. Additionally, U. chilensis is reported for the first time from Argentina. Se describe e ilustra U. austroamericana, una nueva especie de Sudamrica austral. Esta especie crece en suelos pobres y permanentemente hmedos, especialmente en los pantanos de Sphagnum (turberas), y est distribuida en Tierra del Fuego y en la isla mayor del Archipilago Tristan da Cunha. en el ocano Atlntico Sur. U. austroamericana difiere morfolgica y ecolgicamente de U. macrolepis, su taxn ms afn, pues ste ltimo es una especie minerotrfica tpica de las depresiones hmedas de los pastizales. Desde el punto de vista morfolgico, esta nueva especie difiere de U. macrolepis por poseer aquenios dbilmente coloreados y conspicuamente engrosados en el pice a la madurez, y por tener espigas relativamente laxas que con frecuencia exceden los 2 cm de longitud. Por otro lado, se publica el primer registro de U. chilensis para la Argentina.
23222576|This is the first record of the genus Monascostroma v. Hhnel (1918) for the Argentine flora and also for the Southern Hemisphere.
23215703|This paper deals with the leaf anatomical characters (including the epidermical ones) of two genera of the Eragrosteae (Gramineae) inhabiting the Argentine Republic. The species studied are: Eleusine indica, E. tristachya and Dactyloctenium aegyptium.
23223242|The leaf architecture of Tipuana Benth., Cascaronia Griseb. and Bergeronia Micheli, is described and compared, evaluating the importance of these foliar characters in their taxonomy. Each genus presents characters that allow their differentiation: in Tipuana tipu (Benth.) Kuntze, the basal pairs of secondary veins have an eucamptodromous model, with simple intersecondary veins which move through the intercostal area towards the margin; the last marginal venation is looped. In Cascaronia astragalina Griseb., secondary veins have capillary thickness and the last marginal venation is incomplete. In Bergeronia sericea Micheli, there are abaxial prominent secondary veins, and tertiary veins emerging in rigth angles; the last marginal venation is fimbrated. The venation characters observed are similar to those previously cited for different genera of Dalbergieae and some cited in other tribes of Papilionoideae. However, they cannot define, for themselves, the taxonomic position of the three genera and must be considered together with other morphological and reproductive structures.
23230238|Six new combinations in the genera Cortaderia, Nicoraepoa, and Poa, and four lectotypifications in Poa are published here as the result of a taxonomic study for the Vascular Flora of Argentina. Se presentan seis nuevas combinaciones en los gneros Cortaderia, Nicoraepoa y Poa, y cuatro lectotipificaciones en el gnero Poa, como resultado de su estudio taxonmico para la Flora Vascular de la Argentina.
23216538|In the present paper seven species and one variety are described and illustrated. Ditylum brightwellii (West) Grunow have been studied will the Electronic microscope. One specie Ditylum sol (Grun. ex Van Heurck) De Toni is mentioned for the first time in Argentine.
23223002|The Phallales flora of central and west Argentina is revised. Six genera and 11 species are recognised, Phallus rubicundus (Bosc) Fr. and Blumenavia rhacodes Moll. are new reCORDs for Argentina, and the distribution area of 8 species is enlarged. A taxonomical key to the species is included. Exomorphological and anatomical studies were performed in all species. An ontogenetical study was undertaken in Clathrus argentinus Domnguez, Lysurus periphragmoides (Klotzsch) Drign, Itajahya galericulata Moll. and Phallus rubicundus (Bosc) Fr.
23212191|El gnero Nierembergia es exclusivamente americano y especialmente sudamericano, siendo Argentina el pas ms rico, pues de las 30 especies y 16 variedades que componen el gnero, posee 27 especies y 13 variedades.
23228248|This paper is a taxonomic study of the Argentinean species of the genus Elaphoglossum (E. crassipes, E. gayanum, E. lindbergii, E. lorentzii, E. pachydermum, E. piloselloides and E. yungense), based on morphological characters of the sporophyte. The history of the genus and the description of the species are provided, along with synonymy, comments on geographical distribution, habitat and a list of the studied specimens. A key to identify the species is also given. Este trabajo es un estudio taxonmico de las especies argentinas del gnero Elaphoglossum (E. crassipes, E. gayanum, E. lindbergii, E. lorentzii, E. pachydermum, E. piloselloides y E. yungense) basado en caracteres morfolgicos del esporfito. Se presenta la historia del gnero y una descripcin de las especies, juntamente con comentarios sobre su distribucin geogrfica, hbitat, y una lista de los ejemplares estudiados. Tambin se incluye una clave para la determinacin de las especies.
23217351|The correct authority for the combination Dipsacus sativus (Dipsacaceae). The cultivated teasel Dipsacus sativus (L.) Honckeny has been always cited in Argentina as D. sativus (L.) Garsault. A brief account is given to solve the confusion about the responsible author for the elevation of Linneo's variety to specific rank.
23225113|The genus Aristida is represented in northwestern Argentina by section Chaetaria with 23 taxa: 18 species and 5 varieties. Aristida nicorae sp. nov., A. victoriana sp. nov. and A. asplundii var. pauciflora var. nov. are described and illustrated. Aristida laxa var. longiramea and A. friesii are two new records for Argentina. Aristida achalensis var. tucumana, A. adscensionis var. bromoides, A. amplexifolia and A. mandoniana are considered synonyms. Aristida divaricata is excluded from the Argentine flora. This paper includes a key to recognize all species and varieties that grow in northwestern Argentina, as well as descriptions, synonymy, illustrations, geographical distribution and ecological observations. El gnero Aristida se encuentra representado en el noroeste de la Argentina por la seccin Chaetaria con 23 taxones: 18 especies y 5 variedades. Se describen e ilustran 3 nuevos taxones: Aristida nicorae sp. nov., A. victoriana sp. nov. y A. asplundii var. pauciflora var. nov., Aristida laxa var. longiramea y A. friesii son citadas por primera vez para la Argentina. Aristida achalensis var. tucumana, A. adscensionis var. bromoides, A. amplexifolia y A. mandoniana han sido consideradas sinnimos. Se excluye de la flora argentina a Aristida divaricata. El trabajo incluye una clave que permite diferenciar las especies y variedades que habitan en el noroeste de la Argentina aportndose adems, descripciones, sinnimos, ilustraciones, distribucin geogrfica y observaciones ecolgicas.
23228250|The most recent studies about the genus Tabebuia and Handroanthus recognize two and six native species in Argentina, and one exotic cultivated species of Handroanthus in urban streets. Nevertheless, the genera are not completely understood, because some taxonomic conflicts are mentioned for the NW of Argentina (NWA). New collections made in Salta and Jujuy, and the revision of an important number of herbarium samples have confirmed a very high variability among the populations of the NWA region, and the subsistence of conflictive situations that prevented the correct identification of the species. Consequently, we considered it was necessary to make the revision of the genus analizing comprehensive material including all the phenological phases, in order to study most characters of every plant organ (young leaves, mature leaves, inflorescences, flowers, fruits and seeds). Our results indicate that the number of native taxa of Handroanthus is seven, including a new variety, and two of Tabebuia. Besides, another cultivated species of Tabebuia was identified, so there are two exotic taxa. All the entities are described, as well as the extant variability of native populations, and their distribution ranges in Argentina are provided. Los estudios ms recientes en Argentina sobre el gnero Tabebuia y Handroanthus reconocen la existencia de dos y seis especies nativas respectivamente, adems de una especie extica de Handroanthus cultivada en el arbolado urbano. Sin embargo no todo est resuelto en los gneros, por cuanto se citan conflictos taxonmicos para el noroeste argentino (NOA). Nuevas colecciones que se efectuaron en Salta y Jujuy, y la revisin de un importante nmero de ejemplares de herbarios, confirmaron la existencia de una muy alta variabilidad en las poblaciones de la regin NOA y de situaciones conflictivas y/o confusas que impedan la correcta identificacin de las entidades. Debido a ello, se considera necesario efectuar la revisin de los gneros analizando materiales completos que incluyan todos los estados fenolgicos, de manera de estudiar el mayor nmero de caracteres en todos los rganos de la planta (hojas jvenes, hojas adultas, inflorescencias y flores, frutos y semillas). Como resultado se encontr que el nmero de taxones nativos es de siete en Handroanthus, con el agregado de un nuevo taxn varietal y de dos en Tabebuia; adems se identific otra especie cultivada de Tabebuia con lo que el nmero de taxones exticos de ambos gneros asciende a dos. Se describen todas las entidades, detallando la variabilidad existente en las poblaciones nativas, y se ajustan los rangos de distribucin en el pas.
darwiniana.2.2.207|This work presents records of Geastraceae for northeastern Brazil, collected in remnants of the Atlantic Rainforest and Atlantic Rainforest relicts Brejo de Altitude. The species were identified based on macro- and micromorphology with the aid of specific literature. Eleven species of the family are distributed into two genera:
23230225|Ranunculus filamentosus is recorded for the first time for the flora of northwestern Argentina. The species is described and illustrated. Its geographical distribution and a key to distinguish the species of Ranunculus from Northwestern Argentina are also provided. Ranunculus filamentosus es citada por primera vez para el noroeste de la Argentina. Se presenta la descripcin de la especie, se ilustra, se agrega un mapa con su distribucin geogrfica y se provee una clave para distinguir las especies de Ranunculus del noroeste argentino.
23218129|A dilucidation of the type of Adesmia inflexa (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae) and its synonimy. A mixture in the type material of Adesmia inflexa is pointed out. A. inflexa is quite different from A. trijuga and the diferences between both taxa are shown in a table. A. tucumanensis becomes a new synonym of A. inflexa.
23218906|Morphological and histochemical studies on the starch grain of Dioscorea campestris Griseb. (DIOSCOREACEAE). The Pizzolato test for calcium oxalate crystals was applied to Dioscorea campestris. A blackening of intraamylar localization was obtained with this technique (silver nitrate and concentrated hydrogen peroxide). Nevertheless, the X-ray diffraction and crystal analysis were both negative for calcium oxalate and calcium respectively. The starch have single or semicompound granules, a great part of them have pores or holes in distal position with respect to the hilar region: sometimes there are 2 pores, with one of them in lateral position. The unmodified granules show the granule surface free from pores or cracks. The hole is supposed to be a conical crater erosion, a feature which is typical of the particular kind of starch granules highly resistant to liquefying -amylase; the central portion is extensively affected as the erosion is in advance. The blackening produced by the positive Pizzolato test is related to that central portion of the damaged grains. Microchemical tests with Fehling solution also revealed high concentrations of reducing sugars at these sites. It is possible that the silver reaction is due to the free reducing groups produced by hydrolysis of the internal central core, giving a false positive test for crystals. The X-ray diffraction powder diagrams obtained, yield data for a crystalline structure of amylose corresponding to the A-type starch.
23218919|The genus Panicum (Poaceae: Paniceae) in Argentina. III. The revision of the argentinean species of Panicum is completed in this revision with the study of species of sections Dichanthelium, Dichotomiflora, Laxa, Panicum, Parvifolia, Prionitia, Steinchisma and Valida, with a total of 26 species investigated. A key for subgenera and sections is given and also an artificial key for sections. Each species is described and illustrations and SEM photos of some of them are given.
23222541|News in Compositae for Argentina II. The presence of Scorzonera laciniata L. in Buenos Aires province, Baccharis triangularis Haum. in the provinces of La Pampa and Chubut and Heterotheca latifolia Buck. in La Pampa province is communicated. Those species are not included in published regional floras.
23213792|Se mencionan cuatro orqudeaas nuevas para la flora de Guyana (antes Guayana Britnica), que el autor recibi vivas de aquel pas y cultiv en la isla antillana de Barbados, lugar de su residencia. Se describe Brassia attenuata Jones, nov. spec. y se hacen dos combinaciones nuevas a nivel varietal.  A. B.
23227138|A systematic treatment of the Costarican Apocynaceae (subfamilies Rauvolfioideae and Apocynoideae) is given. Thirty genera and 80 species are treated, including descriptions, keys and specimens examined, as well as the most relevant bibliographic references. Photographs for almost all the genera and species are included. Se ofrece un tratamiento sistemtico de la familia Apocynaceae, subfamilias Rauvolfioideae y Apocynoideae para Costa Rica. En total, 30 gneros y 80 especies son tratadas. Se presentan claves para los gneros y especies, descripciones y especmenes examinados, as como comentarios adicionales y referencias bibliogrficas ms importantes. Se incluyen fotografas para la mayora de los gneros y las especies.
23213876|Leguminosae pollen grains of Argentina. I Mimosoideae-tribe Acacieae. The pollen grains of the Argentine species of the genus Acacia occur in poliads whose interspecific characters are very similar. Nevertheless it is possible to differenciate them in two groups with or without furrows on the distal face of the grains) and these groups in several species. These distinctive characters are compared in a table and it has been elaborated a key to recognise the different species of the genus Acacia cited for the Argentine.
23223003|The present work deals with the remaining foliose species of Physciaceae from Buenos Aires Province (19), distributed in the following genera: Phaeophyscia Moberg, Physcia (Schreber) Michaux and Pyxine Fr. Generic descriptions are provided. Species are briefly described, commented and illustrated. Their common features were discussed and main morphological variability illustrated in the first part of the present series. Keys to genera and species have been also published previously. The taxonomic value of the colour and structure of the lower cortex in the Physciaceae, as well as the production of secondary substances in the genus Phaeophyscia, are briefly commented. The genus Physciella Esslinger is proposed as synonym of Phaeophyscia Moberg.
23230214|Vernonia setososquamosa (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) has been considered by several authors as a synonym of V. remotiflora, as a variety of this taxon or a quite different, independent species. We analyzed chromosome and pollen morphology of both entities looking for information to clarify the status of V. setososquamosa. The latter taxon showed a somatic chromosome number of 2n=2x=30 with the karyotype composed of 22m + 6sm + 2st, while on the other hand V. remotiflora presented 2n=2x=28 and a karyotype formula having 22m + 4sm + 2st. The pollen of both entities was tricolporate, echinolophate, with lacunae disposed in a regular pattern; however, V. setososquamosa presented polar lacunae, whereas V. remotiflora did not. The results support the treatment of V. setososquamosa and V. remotiflora as different species. Vernonia setososquamosa (Asteraceae, Vernonieae) ha sido considerada por diferentes autores como un sinnimo de V. remotiflora, como una variedad de este taxn o como una especie diferente. En este trabajo se analiz la morfologa de los cromosomas y el polen de ambas entidades en busca de datos datos que permitan determinar el estatus de V. setososquamosa. Este ltimo taxn mostr un nmero de cromosomas somticos de 2n=2x=30, con el cariotipo compuesto por 22m + 6sm + 2st, mientras que V. remotiflora present 2n=2x=28 y una frmula cariotpica con 22m + 4sm + 2st. El polen de estas entidades es tricolporado, equinolofado, con lagunas dispuestas en un patrn regular, pero los granos de V. setososquamosa presentaron lagunas polares, que resultaron ausentes en V. remotiflora. Los resultados apoyan el tratamiento de V. setososquamosa y V. remotiflora como especies diferentes.
darwiniana.2.1.112|Southern Hemisphere peatlands store substantial amounts of soil carbon. Despite their importance in the global carbon cycle, little is known about decomposition processes and the associated fungal diversity. The present study describes the composition of fungal assemblage in two depths from a cushion peatland of predominating
23222575|Thirty samples of honeys were analysed using the techniques proposed by Louveaux et al. (1978); 62 morphological types were identified. From the total, 53 belong to nectar plants and 9 to pollen plants. Nineteen samples had a mixed floral origin and 11 were monofloral from Lotus tenuis Waldst. et Kit. and Eucalyptus L' Hr. The analyses permitted botanic and geographic characterization of the honey.
23222969|On the basis of a survey of the species of the above taxa made in a radius of 200 km around the city of Buenos Aires 106 collections were obtained comprising 18 known species of Hyphoderma, 8 of Grandinia and 3 of Hypochnicium. Hyphoderma definitum (Jacks.) Donk, H. griseo-flavescens (Litsch.) Jlich, H. inusitata (Jacks. & Dearn.) Ginns, H. lapponicum (Litsch.) Ryv., H. macedonicum (Litsch.) Donk, H. medioburiense (Burt) Donk, H. sibiricum (Parm.) Eriks. & Strid; Grandinia arguta (Fr.) Jlich, G. breviseta (Karst.) Jlich, G. crustosa (Pers: Fr.) Fr., G. microsporella Jlich and Hypochnicium caucasicum Parmasto are new records for the area under study. A new species, Grandinia erikssonii Galn & Wright, and a new combination, Hyphoderma brunneocontextum (Gmez) Galn are proposed.
23223876|Eryngium Sect. Foetida (Sect. Flaccida included) is represented in Argentina by 7 species: E. chubutense, E. coronatum, E. echinatum, E. ekmanii, E. divaricatum, E. dorae and E. nudicaule. They are small-sized herbaceous plants, characterized by petiolated leaves with reticulate venation, and isophlyctide-type fruits; they principally occur in the NE and center of the country, but the endemic species Eryngium chubutense reaches Patagonian provinces toward the south of its area. Eryngium dorae, poorly collected and insufficiently known, detaches by its subpedicelate flowers an echinated fruits, both characters rarely found in Eryngium. In this contribution, taxonomical characters of interest to the section are analized; species are described and illustrated and a key to recognize them is provided. El gnero Eryngium Sect. Foetida (incluida Sect. Flaccida) est representado en Argentina por 7 especies: E. chubutense, E. coronatum, E. echinatum, E. ekmanii, E. divaricatum, E. dorae y E. nudicaule. Son hierbas de bajo porte caracterizadas por sus hojas pecioladas con venacin reticulada, y sus frutos del tipo "isophlyctide"; se distribuyen principalmente en el NE y centro del pas, aunque Eryngium chubutense, endmica, alcanza al sur de su rea la provincia de Santa Cruz. Eryngium dorae es una especie poco coleccionada y mal conocida hasta el presente, que se destaca por la presencia de flores subpediceladas y frutos equinados, caracteres poco frecuentes en el gnero. Se analizan en este aporte los caracteres taxonmicos relevantes en la seccin; se describen e ilustran las especies y se proporciona una clave para diferenciarlas.
23218915|A revision of the Argentine species of Polygonum s.l. (Polygonaceae). This paper is a taxonomic revision of the genus Polygonum L. in Argentina, with a discussion of the morphological characters of taxonomic importance, a description of the genus and a classification of the 20 species treated in 5 Sections: Polygonum (5 species), Amblygonon Meisner (1 species), Persicaria Meisner (11 species), Echinocaulon Meisner (2 species) and Tiniaria Meisner (1 species). For each species a description, illustrations of interesting characters, geographical distribution, observations and conclusions about the study of the type material, the information about karyology, phenology and probable uses are included. Some species or varieties previously cited for Argentina have been reduced to synonymy (Polygonum meisnerianum var. beyrichianum, P. lanigerum, P. portoricense, P. acuminatum var. microstemon and var. glabrescens, P. punctatum var. aquatile, P. berteroi, P. arenastrum, P. persicarioides, P. cardobense and P. rivulare); P. polygaloides, P. spergulariaeforme and P. tenue are taxa erroneously cited for our country, while P. dumetorum is considered of doubtful presence in Argentina.
23218071|A taxonomic and nomenclatural assessment of species of the genera Bartramia, Bartramidula and Conostomum from the Andean-Patagonian region as well as from antarctic and subantarctic areas is presented, drawing attention to the characters of taxonomic value, both at generic and specific level. Spore morphology observed by SEM proved to be a relevant feature for the distinction of the genera here studied. Spore ornamentation together with the detailed structure of leaf cross-section were found to be useful characters at specific and varietal level. These characters have helped in the circumscription of species, resulting in a substantial reduction in the number of taxa known for the area. A short description of the family and a key to all the genera of Bartramiaceae found in the region, integrate this study with three previously published papers (Matteri 1968, 1973, 1981). The 3 genera, 8 species and 1 variety are treated in a synoptic style, including keys, brief descriptions with the local synonymy, together with useful taxonomic notes and data on habitat and distribution.
23226710|Mature leaves of adult individuals of Populus alba, Populus deltoides, Robinia pseudoacacia, Ulmus pumila and Fraxinus americana from the University Campus, Tandil, Buenos Aires, Argentina (37 19'S, 59 08'W) were collected on February 2004. The cuticular wax was extracted, purified, and the content and relative proportion of odd-carbon numbered n-alkanes (CC) was quantified by capillary gas-liquid chromatography. Total concentration of n-alkanes (mg/kg DM) were P. alba (6935) > Robinia (1571) > P. deltoides (1379) > Ulmus (880) > Fraxinus (467). Most abundant n-alkanes in all species were C and C accounting for 10-51% and 35-76% of total, respectively, except Fraxinus where most abundant were C and C accounting for 31% and 41% of total, respectively. P. alba and P. deltoides differed not only in total concentration of all n-alkanes but also in relative proportion of C and C, being C the most abundant in the latter species (76%) as well as in Robinia (75%). The occurrence of even-carbon numbered n-alkanes was either undetectable or very low in all species in general, except for C, C and C, the latter being prominent in Fraxinus. Se coleccionaron hojas maduras de ejemplares adultos de Populus alba, Populus deltoides, Robinia pseudoacacia, Ulmus pumila y Fraxinus americana del Campus Universitario, Tandil, Buenos Aires. Argentina (37 19'S, 59 08'O) en febrero de 2004. La cera cuticular fue extrada, purificada, y el contenido y proporcin relativa de n-alcanos de nmero impar de carbonos (CC) fue cuantificado mediante cromatografa gas-lquido capilar. La concentracin total de n-alcanos (mg/kg MS) fue P. alba (6935) > Robinia (1571) > P. deltoides (1379) > Ulmus (880) > Fraxinus (467). Los n-alcanos ms abundantes en todas las especies fueron C y C que constituyeron entre 10 y 51% y entre 35 y 76% del total respectivamente, excepto en Fraxinus donde los ms abundantes fueron C y C que constituyeron el 31 y 49% del total respectivamente. P. alba y P. deltoides difirieron no solo en la concentracin total de n-alcanos sino tambin en la proporcin relativa de C y C, siendo C el n-alcano ms abundante en la segunda especie (76%) igual que en Robinia (75%). La presencia de nalcanos de nmero par de carbonos no fue detectable o result muy baja en general en todas las especies, con excepcin de C, C y C, este ltimo se destac particularmente en Fraxinus.
23230207|Adesmia australis (serie Frigidae), a new species from Santa Cruz province, is described and illustrated, being distinguished from its morphologically most similar relative, A. frigida, by the number and size of leaflets, flower size and isomorphic stipules. Se describe e ilustra Adesmia australis (serie Frigidae), una nueva especie de la provincia de Santa Cruz, que se distingue de su especie ms afn, A. frigida, por el nmero y tamao de los fololos, el tamao de las flores y estpulas isomorfas.
23217334|Embryological studies in Desfontainia spinosa (Desfontainiaceae). This paper deals with the embryology of D. spinosa Ruiz et Pav.; the following are the main conclusions: A) Embryological conclusions:  Anther walls: Its development corresponds to an archaic form within the basic type of Davis (1966), in which there are three or four middle layers. The tapetum is of the secretory type and the endothecium cells develop U-form thickenings on the radial walls and internal tangential wall.  Microsporogenesis: There is a simultaneous formation of tetrahedral tetrads.  Ovule: It is anatropous, crassinucellate and has only one integument. The internal epidermis of the integument differentiates itself in an endothelium. At the moment of anthesis, transfer cells stem from the endothelium and underlying layers, in the micropilar region.  Growth of the pollen tube and fertilization: The growth of the pollen tubes starts in the epidermis of the stigma, going through the transmiting tissue of the style and ovary and finally, the secretory epidermis of the placenta and funicle. Several callose plugs are formed in its way. The fertilization is porogamous; the pollen tube discharges inside one of the synergids.  Endosperm: The development of the endosperm corresponds to cellular megatype, isopolar type, longitudinal subtype, i. e. 1211 according to the EODP system (Di Fulvio, 1983). At the beginning of the proembryo's globular phase, the cells of the micropylar and chalazal regions develops haustorial characteristics and do not contain reserve materials. These cells will be digested by the embryo during development and the same occurs with the cells of the central zone. The rest of the tissues, with food reserves identified as protein bodies, persists in the completely developed seed.  Episperm: It is derived from the external epidermis of the ovule and is represented by a layer of sclereids whose radial and internal tangential wall are thickened, lignified and profusely pitted. The external tangential walls formed by pectic compounds, are also thickened. Around the micropyle there is also a bundle of sclereids which have evenly thickened, lignified walls with numerous pits. The episperm is scarcely known in the Loganiaceae but, morphologically, the sclereid layer of D. spinosa resembles the one described in Fagraea. B) Taxonomical conclusions: As Loganiaceae s. l. is one of the tropical families whose embryology is not very well known it is still premature to try to arrive to final conclusions. Nevertheless, the results obtained in this work indicate that: 1. The characteristics of cellular endospermogenesis and the presence of an endothelium would justify the separation of Desfontainia from Loganiaceae s. str. As regards the isopolar type of endospermogenesis, it coincides with Polypremum (Buddlejaceae) and Mitrasacme (Loganiaceae). The nature of the cellular endospermogenesis is different to Buddleja where only the micropylar cell contributes to the development of the storage tissue and the other cell forms 4 chalazal haustoria. On the other hand, the isopolar type of endospermogenesis and the presence of endothelium are characteristics of the families with cellular endosperm belonging to the order Solanales; for that reason Polypremum, Mitrasacme and Desfontainia are, probably, better referred to the Solanales rather than to the Gentianales or Scrophulariales. 2. As Desfontainia posseses many morphological differences with any of the families included by Cronquist in Solanales, it only could be incorporated in this order as an independent family.
23228363|Species of Rebutia are distributed from northwestern Argentina to southern Bolivia (Cochabamba to Tarija). Five species grow in Argentina, including the type species of the genus: R. minuscula. The phenotypic diversity, very variable within the species of Rebutia, promoted the publication of numerous specific and infraspecific names, leading to considerable confusion in nomenclature, synonymy, and distinctive characters of its species, particularly for R. minuscula, whose delimitation overlaps with that of R. wessneriana. The aim of this work is to reevaluate the circumscription of R. minuscula. Exo-micromorphological characteristics of natural populations growing in the upper mountain forest and high-grasslands of Catamarca, Tucumn, Salta and Jujuy provinces, were analyzed. Data were documented with illustrations and photographs; information of geographic distribution is provided as well as ecological and phenological observations. Synonyms are included and the nomenclatural types for some of them are established. Rebutia wessneriana is considered as subspecies of R. minuscula and a new combination and a new rank is proposed: Rebutia minuscula subsp. wessneriana. Las especies de Rebutia se distribuyen desde el noroeste de la Argentina hasta el sur de Bolivia (Cochabamba a Tarija). Cinco especies crecen en la Argentina, entre ellas la especie tipo del gnero: R. minuscula. La diversidad fenotpica, muy comn dentro de las especies de Rebutia, ha favorecido la publicacin de numerosos nombres especficos e infraespecficos, produciendo una verdadera confusin en la nomenclatura, en la sinonimia y en los caracteres distintivos de sus especies, en particular de R. minuscula, cuya delimitacin se superpone con la de R. wessneriana. El propsito de este trabajo fue reevaluar la delimitacin de R. minuscula. Se analizaron las caractersticas exo-micromorfolgicas de poblaciones naturales que habitan en el bosque montano superior y en pastizales de altura de las provincias de Catamarca, Tucumn, Salta y Jujuy. Los datos obtenidos se documentaron con ilustraciones y fotografas; se proporciona informacin de distribucin geogrfica, observaciones ecolgicas y fenolgicas. Se incluyen los sinnimos y se designan los tipos nomenclaturales para algunos de ellos. Se considera a R. wessneriana como una subespecie de R. minuscula y se propone una nueva combinacin y un nuevo rango para nombrarla: Rebutia minuscula subsp. wessneriana.
23213793|En este trabajo monogrfico se realiza el estudio taxonmico de las especies de Gesnericeas que viven en la Repblica Argentina. Se analizan los caracteres morfolgicos generales de: raz, rganos de propagacin vegetativa, tallo, hoja, flor, fruto y semilla. En base a estos anlisis se componen las diagnosis genricas y especficas, aclarando tambin los problemas sinonmicos y de nomenclatura. Se agregan claves para distinguir los gneros y especies, Se ilustran las especies, inclusive sus semillas. Quedan as confirmados hasta la fecha 6 gneros con 9 especies y 1 variedad, citndose por primera vez para el pas: Corytholoma strictum (Hook.) Decne., Corytholoma warmingii (Hiern) Tours., y Corytholoma douglasii (Lindl.) Voss. var. verticillatum (Hook.) Tours. En algunas especies se realizan ensayos culturales, aclarando en cada caso, los resultados obtenidos. In this paper the author gives an account of the Gesneriaceae of the flora of the Argentine Republic. After a general consideration of the family, keys, illustrations and descriptions are given for all the genera, species and varieties found within the boundaries of Argentina. Six genera with nine species and one variety are detected; novelties for the flora are: Corytholoma strictum (Hook.) Decne., C. warmingii (Hiern) Tours. and C. douglasii (Lindl.) Voos var. verticillatum (Hook.) Tours.  Four different phytogeographical "provinces" are recognized: the northwestern subtropical, in the mountains of Salta to Catamarca, a continuation of the Bolivian area; the Chaco-area; the north-eastern subtropical, related to the Brazilian flora, and the North Patagonian region, with Chilean affinities.
23218076|In the present paper the study of the native and introduced species of Atriplex of Argentina is completed. The herbaceous species are described and illustrated, and a general key which includes previously studied taxa is given. A new species, (A. nitrophiloides Sor. ex Mlgura) of Bolivia and NW Argentina is established.
23230221|Festuca yalaensis, a new rhizomatous, narrow-leaved Festuca from the province of Jujuy (NW Argentina) is described and illustrated. Its delimitation with respect to other Festuca species and its phylogenetic placement within the Loliinae clade are discussed. Se describe e ilustra Festuca yalaensis, una nueva Festuca rizomatosa de hojas finas procedente de la provincia de Jujuy (NO Argentina). Se discuten su delimitacin con respecto a otras especies de Festuca y su posicin filogentica en el clado de la subtribu Loliinae.
23612318|Rare and narrowly endemic species are more vulnerable to extinction due to their restricted geographical distribution. the genus Petunia has 14 species and most of them are endemic to a restricted area. Four Petunia species that grow in Southern Brazil were studied: P. bonjardinensis, P. reitzii, P. integrifolia subsp. depauperata, and P. exserta. We presented a preliminary study on the genetic diversity of five populations of Petunia, using allozyme markers. For the genetic analyses, allozyme electrophoresis was carried out and eight enzyme systems were reliably scored. Standard measures of allozyme diversity were calculated. The highest genetic diversity and the highest fixation index was found in the two studied populations of P. bonjardinensis (P = 90, p = 2.2 and 1.9, e = 0.33 and 0.30, F = 0.31 and 0.27); this species occurs in small isolated patches, that may restrict gene flow among populations. Petunia reitzii showed the second highest genetic diversity values (P = 78, p = 1.78, e = 0.28), and Petunia integrifolia subsp. depauperata showed moderate values (P = 40, p = 1.4 and e = 0.11). Petunia exserta did not show any polymorphic locus. Our results show the urgency of preserving the studied population of P. exserta that did not show any allozyme variation and occurs in a very particular and threatened habitat. Las especies raras y estrictamente endmicas son ms vulnerables a la extincin debido a su distribucin geogrfica restringida. El genero Petunia tiene 14 especies y la mayora de ellas son endmicas de reas restringidas. Se estudiaron cuatro taxones de Petunia que crecen en el sur de Brasil: P bonjardinensis, P. reitzii, P. integrifolia subsp. depauperata y P. exserta. Se presenta un estudio preliminar de la diversidad gentica de cinco poblaciones de Petunia utilizando marcadores de alozimas. Para los anlisis de electroforesis de alozimas se llevaron a cabo ocho sistemas enzimticos. Se calcularon las medidas estndar de diversidad. La mayor diversidad gentica y tambin el ndice de fijacin ms alto se encontr en las dos poblaciones estudiadas de P. bonjardinensis (P = 90, p = 2.2 y 1.9, e = 0.33 y 0.30, F = 0.31 y 0.27); esta especie se encuentra en pequeas zonas aisladas entre s, lo que puede dificultar el flujo gnico interpoblacional. Petunia reitzii mostr los segundos valores ms altos de diversidad gentica (P = 78, p = 1.78, e = 0.28) y P. integrifolia mostr valores moderados (P = 40, p = 1.4, y e = 0.11). Petunia exserta no mostr loci polimrficos. Nuestros resultados muestran la urgencia de preservar la poblacin estudiada de P. exserta, que no mostr ninguna variacin alozmica y se encuentra en un hbitat muy particular y amenazado.
23223186|Deprea ecuatoriana Hunz. et Barboza, a new species from Ecuador (Prov. Loja) is described and illustrated. Floral and fruit peculiarities and its affinities with D. orinocensis (Kunth) Raf. and D. cardenasiana Hunz. are discussed.
23222986|In this paper a revision of Argentine species of Zornia is completed, based on exomorfological characters. Zornia comprises twelve species in Argentine. A new combination (stat. nov.) Zornia crinita (Mohlenbr.) Vanni based on Z. pardina Mohlenbr. var. crinita Mohlenbr. is proposed and Zornia echinata Mohlenbr., is considered to be a synonym of Z. reticulata Smith. The geographic distribution and some ecological characteristics are also given. Chromosome studies are reported for Z. crinita and Z. pardina Mohlenbr. (2n = 20).
23215725|Cercidium praecox (Ruiz y Pavon) Harms as it occurs in Argentina is comprised of two forms having distinct geographic ranges. One, C. praecox ssp. praecox, with glabrous ovary and mature leaflets 5-9 mm long occurs elsewhere in South American than Argentina. The other, having villous ovary and mature leaflets 2.3-5 mm long, is herein designated at C. praecox ssp. glaucum (Cav.) Burkart & Carter and is based on Pomaria glauca Cav. It is restricted to Argentina. Ivan Johnston, who was unaware of P. glauca, failed to note that all of his cited material of Cercidium australe (including the type) had densely pubescent ovaries, as does the type of the Cavanilles specimen in Madrid. A key to all American species of Cercidium is included.
23226702|Lantana lundiana and L. velutina, (Verbenaceae, Lantana sect. Callioreas) are recorded for the first time for Argentina and Paraguay. Descriptions and illustrations of each taxon are included. Lantana lundiana y L. velutina, (Verbenaceae, Lantana sect. Callioreas) se registran por primera vez para la Argentina y Paraguay. Se incluye la descripcin e ilustracin de cada uno de los taxones.
23217348|A new species of Tweedia (Asclepiadaceae) from the West of Argentina. Tweedia aucaensis G. H. Rua, a new Argentinian species from the provinces of Neuqun and Mendoza, is described and illustrated. This species differs from T. echagarayi (Hieron). Malme in its linear subsessile leaves with sparse retrorse hairs and its glabrous stem, and from T. brunonis Hook. et Arnott in the free crown appendages and in its thick conic stigmatic appendage.
23216460|A taxonomic revision of the genera Catabrosa Pal. de Beauv. and Phippsia R. Brown in South America, has been made. Both genera have disjuncts areas. The following species are recognized: C. aquatica (L.) Pal. de Beauv. collected in the south of Argentina and south of Chile and C. werdermannii (Pilger) comb. nov., which lives in the height Andes of Argentina and Chile. Phippsia wilczekii Hackel is a good species, endemic of Mendoza (Argentina).
23213276|El autor ha recopilado la informacin existente en la bibliografa botnica sobre la difusin de la hibridacin en la familia Gramineae. Existen en total 2.002 hbridos conocidos en esta familia, distribudos en 64 gneros de los 600 existentes. Proporcionalmente, las Gramneas cuentan con ms hbridos que las dos mayores familias (Orchidaceae y Compositae), lo que se explica por su sociabilidad, su anemofilia y uniformidad de rganos reproductores. Debe esperarse el descubrimiento de muchos hbridos ms. En una lista alfabtica, el autor anota los gneros en los cuales se conocen hbridos, indicando el nmero de los mismos y con qu otros gneros se ha producido la hibridacin.
23223209|A new combination, Gymnocalycium spegazzinii Britton & Rose subsp. cardenasianum (F. Ritter) Kiesling & Metzing is established. A key to distinguish the subspecies, area and types of both taxa are given. Typification of the subsp. spegazzinii is discused, and its lectotype is designated.
23217349|The Myrtaceae of Northwestern Argentina. The taxonomy of the Myrtaceae in Northwestern Argentina is reviewed, with a key for the recognition of the 10 genera and 20 species found in this region. Taxa dealt with in previous publications by the authoress are not described; data on their geographic distribution and the list of herbarium material examined for each of them are given.
90005705|Edible plant species and their parts used by indigenous tapiete people in northeastern Salta province, Argentina are identified, as well as their gathering, elaboration, consumption and storage practices. The ultimate aim of this work is to contribute to the recording and appreciation of tapiete people knowledge about this matter. Five fieldworks were made to the semiarid northern Chaco and to Tartagal city, where ethnobotanical data were obtained from 75 interviews with a total of 32 qualified and occasional tapiete collaborators. Each of the edible plants was collected and identified by the authors and deposited at the Ruiz Leal Herbarium (MERL). A total of 54 native plants, belonging to 23 botanical families used as food by the tapiete, are recorded as forming part of 106 preparations, or consumption forms, and 13 forms of conservation. The main edible species are
23216474|The Life-history of two species of Brown Algae, a croustaceous (Ralfsioid) and Scytosiphon lomentaria (Lyngbye) Link, from Puerto Deseado (Patagonia Argentina), has been followed in culture. Cultures from swarmspores of unilocular sporangia of "Ralfsia sp." in nature, develop into haplostichous disc. These crusts form polistichous erect fronds (Scytosiphon phase) similar to Scytosiphon pigmaeus Reinke, with plurilocular organs at maturity. Its zoospores give rise to discoid thalli identical to mother plant. The zoospores of Scytosiphon lomentaria develop parthenogenetically into small haplostichous crustaceous discs or filamentous prothalli giving off erect fronds with plurilocular organs. This species exhibits that there is no alternation of dimorphic generations in our cultures.
23211927|Se detalla en el presente trabajo la cario y citocinesis de Zygnema normani Taft, especie nueva para Argentina, acreditndosele 10 cromosomas alargados de 1,5 a 1,7 micrones de largo por 0,5 micrones de ancho. Se reconocen las estructuras nucleares normales: faz amorfa y nucleolonema o carilionema en ella includa. No se observan los cromosomas anafsicos dispuestos en anillos concntricos con el eje corto de la clula, segn informara Merriman (1906) para Zygnema sp. La deposicin de la nueva pared celular se inicia en metafase temprana. Concluda la citocinesis, se informa sobre la divisin de cloroplstido y pirenoide en l includo, que dotar a la clula vegetativa de su fisonoma comn de dos plstidos por clula. Details of mitosis and cytokinesis were followed on Zygnema normani Taft, a species new for Argentina with 10 chromosomes of 1,5-1,7  length by 0,5  width. Normal nucleolar structures "nucleolonema" or "carilionema" and "pars amorfa" have been recognized. Anaphasic daughter chromosomes never arranged in concentric rings with the short cellular axis, as Merriman (1906) reported for Zygnema sp. Deposition of the new cell wall begun at early metaphase. After cytokinesis has been completed chloroplast and included pyrenoid underwent division to restore the normal appearence of two per cell.
23215731|A new combination has been done for Cheilolejeunea (Strepsilejeunea) warnstorfii. New synonyms for Harpalejeunea parasitica and Harpalejeunea decurvicuspis, and new localities for Lejeunea (Microlejeunea) ulicina and Colura patagonica are also given.
23223889|Nuptial nectary characteristics were investigated in 37 taxa of Bignoniaceae. A nuptial nectary associated to the floral axis was found in all species. Two main types can be distinguished according to their degree of development and functionality: 1) vestigial and non-secretory and 2) well-developed and secretory. The former is characteristic of Clytostoma spp., while the latter is found in the remaining species. Two subvarieties of the secretory type of nectary can be discerned according to their position and shape: 1) annular, found in Adenocalymma, Amphilophium, Anemopaegma, Arrabidaea, Dolichandra, Eccremocarpus, Macfadyena, Melloa, Pithecoctenium, Tabebuia, and Tecoma, and 2) cylindrical, found in Argylia, Cuspidaria, Jacaranda, Mansoa, Parabignonia, Pyrostegia, and Tynnanthus. Anatomically, two tissues are distinguished: 1) a single-layered epidermis covered by a cuticle and a variable number of stomata, and 2) a secretory tissue composed of compactly arranged parenchyma cells. Both nectary size and nectary/ovary ratio were usually larger in lianas (Bignonieae) than in trees (Tecomeae). Nectary type proved to be consistent among species of same genus but not among genera of same tribe. Nectary features such as vascularization, presence of trichomes and nectary type were constant within the analyzed species and therefore have a reliable taxonomic value. Se investigaron las caractersticas de los nectarios florales en 37 especies de Bignoniaceae. Se encontr un nectario nupcial asociado al eje floral en todas las especies, pudindose distinguir dos tipos principales de acuerdo a su grado de desarrollo y funcionalidad: 1) vestigial y no secretor y 2) bien desarrollado y secretor. El primero es caracterstico de las especies de Clytostoma mientras que el segundo est presente en el resto de las especies estudiadas. Dos variedades del tipo secretor pueden discernirse de acuerdo a su posicin y forma: 1) anular, encontrado en Adenocalymma, Amphilophium, Anemopaegma, Arrabidaea, Dolichandra, Eccremocarpus, Macfadyena, Melloa, Pithecoctenium, Tabebuia, y Tecoma y 2) cilndrico, presente en Argylia, Cuspidaria, Jacaranda, Mansoa, Parabignonia, Pyrostegia, y Tynnanthus. Anatmicamente se distinguen dos tejidos: 1) una epidermis monoestratificada, cubierta por una cutcula y con un nmero variable de estomas y 2) un tejido secretor compuesto por clulas parenquimticas dispuestas en forma compacta. Tanto el tamao del nectario como la relacin nectario/ovario fue usualmente ms grande en lianas (Bignoniaceae) que en rboles (Tecomeae). El tipo de nectario fue invariable entre las especies de un mismo gnero, pero no as entre los gneros de una misma tribu. Las caractersticas de los nectarios analizados en este estudio como la vascularizacin, la presencia de tricomas y el tipo de nectario fueron constantes en las especies analizadas, adquiriendo por lo tanto un importante valor taxonmico.
23216514|Se da a conocer en este trabajo la presencia de estomas paralelocticos en las epidermis foliares de las 4 especies del gnero sudamericano Mora: M. excelsa, M. paraensis, M. gongrijpii y M. megistosperma. Este tipo se encuentra junto al paractico con el que est relacionado ontogenticamente en una proporcin variable en las distintas especies; la autora en un trabajo anterior los haba incluido en este ltimo tipo. Se caracterizan los estomas paralelocticos por poseer clulas subsidiarias en forma de "C" que alternan a cada lado de las oclusivas, decreciendo su tamao de afuera hacia adentro. En Mora existen slo 3 clulas subsidiarias, caso poco frecuente ya que por lo comn poseen 4. En este estoma hay una estrecha relacin entre ontogenia y estado adulto ya que la observacin de este ltimo permite deducir su desarrollo, por lo que es posible hacer correlaciones con tipos menos complejos de similar ontogenia inicial y ello puede tener importancia desde un punto de vista taxonmico. La presente es la segunda referencia a este tipo estomtico en las Leguminosas-Cesalpinioideas; en la misma se han hecho adems algunas consideraciones acerca de la terminologa existente en los estomas de las dicotiledneas. Parallelocytic stomata are recorded for the leaf epidermis of the 4 species of the South American genus Mora: M. excelsa, M. paraensis, M. gongrijpii y M. megistosperma. They were previously described by the author as paracytic in a former paper. Both types, which are related on developmental basis, are present in variable number according to the species. The parallelocytic stoma possesses a series of alternating, increasingly larger "C"-shaped cells as one proceeds from the guard cells outward, surrounding the latter; in Mora there are a rather unusual number of 3 subsidiary cells, instead of 4. In this type there is a close correlation between ontogeny and adult pattern, being possible therefore to establish relations with less complex types of stomata of similar initial ontogeny what could be important from the taxonomic point of view. The present is the second reference of parallelocytic stomata for the Leguminosae-Caesalpinioideae. Considerations about the complex terminology on dicots stomata are also given.
23218933|Algae from continental waters of Argentina VII. Entre Ros II. One hundred and seventy one taxa of algae were identified from 9 freshwater samples collected in Entre Ros (Argentina) in October 1982. Of those 3 are new taxa: Euastrum oculatum var. entrerrianum nov. var., E. subornatum var. brasiliense fa. major nov. fa., Cosmarium rectangulare var. rectangulare fa. parvulus nov. fa. and a new combination is proposed: Euastrum stellatum var. tridentatum nov. comb. (= E. substellatum var. tridentatum Cout & Tell). Two genera: Willea (Chlorococcales, Chlorophyceae) and Geitleribactron (Chamaesiphonales, Cyanophyceae) and 54 taxa, included species, varieties and formae, are new records for Argentina and 59 are new for Entre Ros.
23224221|A revision of the Argentine species of the pantropical genus Desmodium is presented, based on the analysis of exomorphological characters; a total of 21 species grow in Argentina. Two species are cited for the first time for Argentina, D. adscendens and D. distortum, and two synonyms are proposed, D. longiarticulatum, under D. bridgesii, and D. dutrae, under D. polygaloides. The geographic distribution of each species and some ecological characteristics are also given. The first record of the chromosome count of D. hassleri, 2n = 22 is presented. Se presenta la revisin para Argentina de las especies de Desmodium basada en el anlisis de los caracteres exomorfolgicos. Este gnero se distribuye en regiones tropicales del mundo y est representado en el pas por 21 especies. Se describe cada una de las entidades y se ilustran las novedades. Dos especies son citadas por primera vez para Argentina y se proponen dos sinonimias D. longiarticulatum, bajo la sinonimia de D. bridgesii y D. dutrae, bajo la sinonimia de D. polygaloides. Se realizan consideraciones sobre la distribucin geogrfica y caractersticas ecolgicas. Se presenta el primer recuento cromosmico de D. hassleri de 2n= 22.
23218944|Studies on xylophilous fungi from Argentina. II Ascomycotina on Eucalyptus viminalis (Myrtaceae). Sixteen xylophilous Ascomycetes are described and another is mentioned. Among the former: Hypocrea nigricans (Imai) Doi, Hypomyces aureonitens (Tul.) Tul., Hypomyces rosellus (Alb. et Schw.) Tul., Rhamphoria piriformis (Fr.) v. Hhnel, Trichosphaerella decipiens B. Rous. et Sacc.) T. ceratophora (v. Hhnel) Mller, Claussenomyces atrovirens (Pers.) Korf et Abawi, Hyalinia scolecospora Beat. apud Beat. et Weste and Rhizodiscina lignyota (Fr.) Hafellner are first records for Argentina. Rhamphoria antarctica Speg. is a "nomen dubium".
23225171|The aims of the present work were to identify and characterize the species of Apocynaceae s. str. occurring in the Carrancas region, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Collections were performed from 1997 to 2000 and regional representative collections were also examined. The floristic survey showed the presence of 31 species belonging to 15 genera: Aspidosperma (5 spp.), Condylocarpon (1 sp.), Forsteronia (3 spp.), Hancornia (1 sp.), Macrosiphonia (2 spp.), Mandevilla (9 spp.), Mesechites (1 sp.), Peltastes (1 sp.), Prestonia (2 spp.), Rauvolfia (1 sp.), Rhabdadenia (1 sp.), Rhodocalyx (1 sp.), Secondatia (1 sp.), Tabernaemontana (1 sp.) and Temnadenia (1 sp.). In addition to a brief discussion on the most relevant morphological features, identification keys, descriptions and illustrations are provided. Comments on taxonomy, distribution and phenology are also given. Los propsitos del siguiente trabajo son identificar y caracterizar las especies de Apocynaceae s. str. nativas en la regin de Carrancas, Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil. Las colecciones fueron realizadas entre 1997 y 2000; y colecciones previas, representativas de la flora regional, tambin fueron estudiadas. El estudio florstico indic la presencia de 31 especies distribuidas en 15 gneros: Aspidosperma (5 spp.), Condylocarpon (1 sp.), Forsteronia (3 spp.), Hancornia (1 sp.), Macrosiphonia (2 spp.), Mandevilla (9 spp.), Mesechites (1 sp.), Peltastes (1 sp.), Prestonia (2 spp.), Rauvolfia (1 sp.), Rhabdadenia (1 sp.), Rhodocalyx (1 sp.), Secondatia (1 sp.), Tabernaemontana (1 sp.) y Temnadenia (1 sp.). Adems de una breve discusin sobre los caracteres morfolgicos ms relevantes, se presentan claves de identificacin, descripciones e ilustraciones. Se agregan comentarios complementarios sobre taxonoma, distribucin y fenologa.
23212189|El autor hace un examen crtico de numerosas especies argentinas y uruguayas del gnero Croton (Euforbiceas). Sin pretender hacer una monografa, aclara el valor de muchos binomios en base a los ejemplares tipo y por comparacin determina y cita una cantidad grande de ejemplares de herbario de los museos argentinos. Hace consideraciones sobre los lmites de las especies, su variabilidad y relaciones fitogeogrficas. Reduce a sinnimos 15 binomios; describe o discute 27 especies vlidas.  A. B.
23222974|Corethron criophilum Castracane was grown under different conditions of daylength and light intensity in order to analyse the species response in terms of duplication rate, cell volume and the ratio surface/volume (S/V). The species was isolated from net samples collected in Baha Paraso (64 48 S - 62 23 W) Antarctica, during March 1989. Differences in the duplication rate were evident between the three photoperiods selected at higher light intensities (60 and 140 E m. sec). At low intensities (0,35 E. m. sec) we did not observe differences in growth between the photoperiods, and the duplication rate was close to zero. Data on cell volume and S/V ratio of the cell population under different growth conditions are presented. An increment in the higher relative surface (S/V) population fraction, in coincidence with shorter photoperiods was observed. On this basis, the following hypothesis to be tested is proposed: If the light conditions become worse, the population reacts producing a differential growth of the cells having a smaller volume and a bigger relative surface.
23224224|A new name is proposed for the recently published, and invalid genus Scandentia. Se propone el nuevo nombre Denscantia en reemplazo del gnero Scandentia, invlidamente publicado.
23225172|The genus Digitaria is represented in Bolivia by 27 taxa: 22 species and 5 varieties. Digitaria argillacea var. nulliseta A. S. Vega & Rgolo var. nov. is described and illustrated. Digitaria catamarcensis, D. ternata, D. setigera and D. aequiglumis var. laetevirens are reported for the first time for the country and D. laxa constitutes a dubious report for Bolivia. Digitaria gerdesii var. boliviensis and D. similis are recognized and confirmed for Bolivia and the following species are excluded: Digitaria neesiana, D. sanguinalis, D. violascens and D. corynotricha. Digitaria lanuginosa and D. setigera are illustrated with details and Digitaria fragilis is illustrated for the first time. This paper includes synonymy, iconography, geographical distribution and ecology, uses, vernacular names, specimens examined, a key for the identification of taxa is also given. El gnero Digitaria est representado en Bolivia por 27 taxones: 22 especies y 5 variedades. Se describe e ilustra a Digitaria argillacea var. nulliseta A. S. Vega & Rgolo var. nov. Digitaria catamarcensis, D. ternata, D. setigera y D. aequiglumis var. laetevirens constituyen nuevas citas para este pas y D. laxa representa una cita dudosa para Bolivia. Se confirma la identidad y la presencia de D. gerdesii var. boliviensis y D. similis en Bolivia. Digitaria neesiana, D. sanguinalis, D. violascens y D. corynotricha son excludas de este tratamiento. Digitaria lanuginosa y D. setigera se ilustran con detalles y Digitaria fragilis es ilustrada por primera vez. El trabajo incluye la sinonimia, iconografa, distribucin geogrfica y ecologa, usos, nombres vernculos, exsiccata y observaciones. Se provee tambin una clave para la identificacin de los taxones.
23223918|Inflorescences of Zizaniopsis bonariensis (Balansa & Poitr.) Speg. and Z. villanensis Quarn were typologically studied. The inflorescences of these species are polytelic; a main florescence and a paracladial zone were noticed. The last one consists of a reduced subzone of short paraclades and a well developed subzone of long paraclades. There is also an important variation in the sexuality of the florescences. In Z. bonariensis the main florescence and the coflorescences of the paraclades of higher order are represented by a pistillate spikelet whereas the coflorescences from lower order paraclades are staminate spikelets. A high concentration of staminate florescences at the proximal regions of the inflorescence is also seen. Zizaniopsis villanensis has a predominance of staminate florescences at a distal position of the inflorescence, with the pistillate ones at the base of the inflorescence. Se estudiaron tipolgicamente las inflorescencias en Zizaniopsis bonariensis (Balansa & Poitr.) Speg. y Z. villanensis Quarn. En ambas especies la inflorescencia es politlica y est constituida por una florescencia principal y por una zona paracladial. En esta ltima se pueden reconocer una subzona de paracladios cortos reducida y una subzona de paracladios largos muy desarrollada. Se presenta tambin una variacin importante en la esporidad de las florescencias. En Z. bonariensis la florescencia principal y las coflorescencias de los paracladios de orden principal estn representados por espiguillas pistiladas, mientras que las coflorescencias de los paracladios de orden inferior son espiguillas estaminadas. Una ms alta concentracin de florescencias estaminadas se observa en la regin proximal de la inflorescencia. En tanto que, Z. villanensis presenta una mayor proporcin de florescencias estaminadas en la regin distal de la inflorescencia con florescencias pistiladas en las partes proximales de la inflorescencia.
23216462|One new species of the genus Coreopsis (Compositae): C. breviligulata is described. The species was collected in the northen peruvian Andes (Dep. Cajamarca). The description is acompained with its original ilustrations.
23215676|El gnero africano Megatritheca presenta nectarios ubicados sobre la vena media, en el envs de las hojas. Este trabajo es el estudio anatmico de dichas glndulas. Los nectarios no se diferencian de los encontrados en Byttneria y Ayenia, gneros relacionados dentro de la tribu Byttnerieae. Pertenecen al tipo mutiaperturado, es decir que los pelos glandulares estn ubicados en cavidades individuales, en un cojn de epidermis pluriestratificada. Tambin en este caso, el nctar segregado por los nectarios sirve como substrato para el desarrollo de hongos epfilos. The african genus Megatritheca presents nectaries located on the middle vein, in the abaxial face of the leaves. This paper is the anatomical study of these glands. The nectaries are not different from those found in Byttneria and Ayenia, related genera within the Byttnerieae. They belong to the multiapertured type, that is to say, the glandular hairs are located in individual cavities in a cushion of multiseriate epidermis. Also in this case, the nectar secreted by the nectaries serves as a substratum for the development of epifilous fungi.
23216466|A taxonomic revision and delimitation of the genera closely related to the genus Briza L. in southamerica, was done. Briza L., including Chascolytrum A. N. Desv., is represented by 11 native and 3 european species. On the related genera, the following observation are made: Calotheca A. N. Desv., monotipic, represented only by C. brizoides (Lam.) A. N. Desv. (Argentina, Uruguay, southern Brazil, central Chile); Rhomboelytrum Link, with 2 species, R. rhomboideum Link (Chile) and R. monandrum (Hack.) comb. nov. (Uruguay, Brazil). The genus Poidium Nees ex Steudel, is being accepted with only 2 species in Brazil, P. brasiliense Nees ex Steudel and P. itatiaiae (Ekman) comb. nov. Therefore, it is excluded from Argentina. Microbriza Parodi ex Nicora et Rg., gen. nov., is been described, including 2 species, M. poaemorpha (Presl) Parodi ex Nicora et Rg., comb. nov. (Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, southern Brazil) and M. brachychaete (Ekman) Parodi ex Nicora et Rg., comb. nov., up to now found only in Brazil. Keys to genera and species, their synonymy, geografic distribution, as well as critical notes on each of them, are included.
darwiniana.3.1.21|
               
darwiniana.2.2.248|
               
23227931|Achenes of the thirty seven Valeriana species from the southern Andes were described, illustrated and compared by scanning electron microscopy and stereomicroscopy. It is shown that the detailed analysis of the achenes provides excellent taxonomic characters (e.g. fruit shape, sterile locules development, fruit-coat surface) to distinguish among the southern Argentina and Chile taxa. Results are contrasted with the systematics of this genus. Four informal groups are established, and a key to the South-Andean species of Valeriana is provided, based on achene morphology. Se describen, ilustran y comparan los aquenios de 37 especies de Valeriana de los Andes australes, a travs de microscopa electrnica de barrido (MEB) y estereomicroscopa. Se muestra que el anlisis detallado de los aquenios provee excelentes caracteres taxonmicos (forma del fruto, grado de desarrollo de los lculos estriles y superficie del fruto) que permiten separar los taxones de Argentina y Chile austral. Los resultados son contrastados con la sistemtica del gnero. Se definen cuatro grupos informales, y se presenta una clave para identificar las especies andinas de Valeriana basada en la morfologa de los frutos.
23223845|A comparative study of the leaf anatomy of 10 species of Plantago L. (Plantaginaceae) from Central Argentina was carried out. The analysis included the study of the foliar epidermis, cuticle, stomata and trichomes; a classification of eglandular and glandular trichomes was stablished and original data of the mesophyll structure in 8 species were given as well. Besides, a key based exclusively on leaf features was provided. The results were discussed and evaluated from a taxonomical point of view. Se realiz un estudio comparativo de la anatoma foliar en 10 especies de Plantago L. (Plantaginaceae) del centro de Argentina. El estudio comprendi el anlisis de la epidermis foliar incluidos la cutcula, los estomas y los tricomas; se estableci una clasificacin de los tricomas glandulares y eglandulares y se aportaron datos originales para la estructura del mesofilo de 8 especies. Adems, se elabor una clave artificial para la identificacin de las especies basada slo en caracteres foliares. Se discutieron y evaluaron los resultados obtenidos desde un punto de vista taxonmico.
23228352|Experimental approach was used to characterize quantitative macromorphological attributes of intermediate and final food products and residues that might have reached the archaeological record as macrobotanical remains of Prosopis chilensis and P. flexuosa (white and black "Algarrobo" respectively). General morphology of beans and seeds of these species are provided. Unrefined and refined flour, aapa, aloja and arrope were elaborated following traditional techniques registered by the author along the Hualfn Valley, Catamarca Province, Argentina, during previous works. It was concluded that quantitative analysis of macrobotanical remains of Prosopis, together with qualitative features, allowed the identification of different stages in the preparation and processing of Algarrobo. Distinguishing between black and white algarroba is essential to interpret Prosopis macroremains. The proportion of different categories of seeds and endocarps may help to distinguish the production of unrefined and refined flour. The last one may indicate the elaboration of patay, ulpo or aloja. Aapa and aloja residues are characterized mainly by rolled, folded or loosening of testa seed and their quantities are diminished or increased with respect to the initial amount of flour used depending on entire or fragmented seeds are being considered. The arrope residues are identified by the presence of closed endocarps, which are fully recovered after processing in their totality, and large pieces of epicarp. Except for the arrope residues, the majority of the Prosopis archaeological assemblage is considered to represent a very low proportion of the ancient processed volume of each dynamic context. Mediante una aproximacin experimental se caracterizan los atributos macromorfolgicos cuantitativos de productos intermedios y residuales derivados de Prosopis chilensis y P. flexuosa (Algarrobo blanco y Algarrobo negro respectivamente) que potencialmente podran llegar a formar parte del registro arqueobotnico. Se provee descripcin morfoanatmica de la vaina y la semilla de las especies tratadas. Se elabor harina no refinada y refinada, aapa, aloja y arrope, siguiendo tcnicas tradicionalmente utilizadas en el Valle de Hualfn, Catamarca, Argentina, las cuales fueron registradas por la autora en trabajos previos. Se concluye que el anlisis cuantitativo de restos macrobotnicos de Prosopis, en conjunto con el cualitativo, permite la identificacin de diferentes etapas de procesamiento del Algarrobo. Para ello resulta esencial la distincin entre las dos especies. La proporcin de diferentes categoras de semillas y endocarpos es til para distinguir la harina refinada de la no refinada. Esta ltima podra indicar la manufactura de patay, ulpo o aloja. Los residuos de la aapa y aloja se caracterizan por presentar semillas con testa plegada, enrollada o levantada, o carecer de ella, y sus cantidades se encuentran disminuidas o aumentadas con respecto a la cantidad inicial de harina utilizada dependiendo de si las semillas que se recuperan son enteras o fragmentadas. Los residuos del arrope se identifican por poseer grandes piezas de epicarpo y porque todos los endocarpos correspondientes a la cantidad de artejos utilizados inicialmente en su preparacin se encuentran presentes. Dichos endocarpos se encuentran cerrados, y excepto en el caso de los residuos de arrope, se considera que la mayora de las asociaciones arqueolgicas de restos de Prosopis representa una proporcin muy baja del volumen de materia que le dio origen en su contexto dinmico del pasado.
23222955|Flower phases and flower visitors of Macroptilium bracteatum (Nees & Martius) Marchal & Baudet were studied in Parque Rivadavia (Concordia, Entre Ros province, Argentina). Three flower phases were recognized from flower opening to wilting (24 hs). The stigma is receptive during phases one and two. Pollen reacts positively to peroxidases in all phases, its viability is 82% and its main cytoplasmic reserve is starch. Pollenkitt contains lipids and proteins. Nectar is present in all three phases. Among the six flower visitors observed, Bombus atratus Franklin (dominant) and Centris sp. (rare) triggered the pollen transfering and stigma exposing mechanism (nototribic). The development of the ovary and of the pollen tubes in flowers isolated for 24 and 48 hs. as well as the analysis of the P/O relationship and fructification under controlled conditions suggest that this species is a facultative xenogamous.
23215558|Se estudia el efecto que la orientacin de segmentos de raz de Diplotaxis tenuifolia tiene sobre el modo de formacin de yemas adventicias. Estos rganos se originan a partir de clulas del parnquima floemtico y de los radios xilemticos perifricos. Generalmente se forman sobre la superficie de corte del extremo proximal, sin que exista una proliferacin celular ("callo") previa, la que es abundante en el extremo distal. En cambio, si la orientacin de los segmentos es invertida durante el perodo de regeneracin (extremo distal hacia arriba), las yemas adventicias pueden formarse en ambos extremos. Mientras en el extremo proximal siguen el mismo modelo anterior, en el extremo distal se originan sobre el callo a partir de ndulos cribovasculares. Tambin en ese callo se inician primordios radicales. When root sections of Diplotaxis tenuifolia are put to regenerate in a vertical position with the proximal end upwards, several adventitious buds are formed either at or near the proximal end. These structures are differentiated from cells of both the phloem parenchyma and the xylem rays, without requiring the proliferation of the cells ("callus") as a previous step. On the other hand, when the root sections are put to regenerate in an inverted position (proximal end downwards), the buds are formed at both ends but those located at the distal end are originated from meristematic nodules. These nodules are the first sign of differentiation in the callus resulting from the proliferation of the phloem parenchyma cells.
23223909|"Pollen loaf" found in incubation cells from Xylocopa augusti Lep. during 1995, 1996 and 1997, were analyzed in order to identify pollen sources utilized by these natives bees in the pampean region. The frequency of pollen types was calculated taking into account the relative volumen for each type. Ten morphological types, belonging to six families of Angiosperms, were identified. The most important sources of nourishment are: Solanum sp., Styphnolobium japonicum L., Eucalyptus sp. and Amaryllis sp. In the sampled area, X. augusti shows a foraging behaviour similar to X. splendidula Lep. Con la finalidad de identificar los recursos de polen utilizados por Xylocopa augusti Lep. en la regin pampeana, se analizaron los "panes de polen" hallados en celdas de incubacin durante los aos 1995, 1996 y 1997. La frecuencia de los tipos polnicos fue calculada teniendo en cuenta el volumen relativo de cada tipo. Fueron identificados diez tipos morfolgicos, los mismos pertenecen a seis familias de Angiospermas. Los recursos alimentarios ms importantes son: Solanum sp., Styphnolobium japonicum L., Eucalyptus sp. y Amaryllis sp. En el rea muestreada, X. augusti presenta un comportamiento recolector similar al de X. splendidula Lep.
23215618|The author re-establishes two species of Aristolochia: A. macrota Duchtr. from French Guiana and A. gardneri Duchtr. from Brazil. A. smilacina Duchtr., A. stomachoides Hoehne and A. mossii S. Moore from Brazil are considered to be valid taxa, A. cordifolia Glaziou, A. cisneroi Glaziou and A. dubia Hoehne being their respective synonyms. The taxonomical validity of A. gabrielis Duchrtr. ex Briquet from French Guiana is verified. A description of A. theriaca Mart. ex Duchtr. is given together with an illustration based on the type specimen. Two new species: A. manaosensis and A. ginzbergeri from the Amazon Basin of Brazil are described.
23230189|New information on the taxonomy, chemistry, distribution and ecology are given for seven taxa of the genus Haematomma occurring in Argentina. Two of them, H. flexuosum and H. fluorescens var. fluorescens, are reported for the first time for Argentina. An identification key to the recognized taxa of Haematomma in Argentina is provided. Se presentan novedades sobre la taxonoma, qumica, distribucin y ecologa de los siete taxones del gnero Haematomma presentes en la Argentina. Dos de ellos, H. flexuosum y H. fluorescens var. fluorescens son registrados por primera vez para el pas. Se incluye una clave del gnero Haematomma para la identificacin de los taxones reconocidos en la Argentina.
23215059|In the present paper the authors analyse the systematic position of Perezia spathulata Philippi. This taxon belongs to the genus Haplopappus Cassini and the correct name is Haplopappus scrobiculatus (Nees) DC. The polen analysis is also given.
23230205|The genus Erythrina in Argentina is composed of three native species: E. crista-galli var. cristagalli, E. falcata and E. dominguezi, the first two taxa are morphologically very similar and it is difficult to identify them based on herbarium material. The aim of this contribution is to review the Argentinean taxa of Erythrina, to study their morphological intraspecific variation and to propose new characters to delimit them clearly. Three hundred samples from herbaria and new collections from Salta, Jujuy and Tucumn (Argentina) were analyzed. Most E. crista-galli populations from northwestern Argentina are characterized, and differ from those of the rest of the country, by the elliptical leaflets, larger flowers, long pedicels, tubular-campanulate to urceolate calyx and the falcate and acute keel. Based on those populations a new variety, E. crista-galli var. longiflora, is proposed. The descriptions of two exotic species E. similis and E. poeppigiana, cultivated as ornamentals, are included. El gnero Erythrina en la Argentina est representado por tres especies nativas: E. crista-galli var. crista-galli, E. falcata y E. dominguezii, las dos primeras son morfolgicamente muy afines y difciles de identificar a partir de ejemplares de herbario. El objetivo del trabajo es revisar los taxones de la Argentina, estudiar su variacin morfolgica intraespecfica y proponer nuevos caracteres que permitan delimitarlos claramente. Se analizaron 300 ejemplares de herbario y nuevas colecciones efectuadas en Salta, Jujuy y Tucumn (Argentina). La mayora de las poblaciones de E. crista-galli del noroeste se caracterizan, y difieren de las del resto del pas, principalmente por los fololos elpticos, flores de mayor tamao y pedicelos largos, el cliz tubular-campanulado a urceolado y la quilla falcada y muy aguda. Se establece la nueva variedad E. crista-galli var. longiflora para distinguir a estas poblaciones. Se agregan adems las descripciones de dos especies introducidas cultivadas como ornamentales, E. similis y E. poeppigiana.
23222996|Species of Rutstroemia Karst. recorded for the Andean-Patagonian and Fuegian forests (Argentina) are: R. megalospora, R. microsperma, R. beaglensis nov. sp. and R. nothofagi nov. sp. The concept of the genus here accepted includes species with a complex excipulum and an evident substratal stroma, but the gelatinization of the excipulum is not stressed, due to the variability observed in collections of the same species in identical habitat and localities. The new species are described and illustrated.
23215584|In this paper, the author studies the following families of ferns, which are growing in the northwestern area of his country: Marsileaceae (Marsilea, 1 or 3 species), Salviniaceae (Salvinia, 1 species) and Azollaceae (Azolla, 2 species). One new taxon is described and illustrated: Marsilea punae. Under each taxa, the synonymy, affinities, critical data and geographic distribution, including the studied specimens, are given.
41825713|A taxonomic treatment of the genus Diplolepis is here presented. Based on molecular and biogeographical information recently published, this group is monophyletic and its geographical distribution is restricted to southwestern South America. The study comprised the analysis of herbarium specimens including nomenclatural types, supplemented with collections and observation of species in the field. This paper describes the variation in the morphology of the genus, including habit, stems, leaves, inflorescence, calyx, corolla, corona, gynostegium, pollinia, fruits and seeds. The morphological and distributional differences between Diplolepis and related genera are discussed. A key to differentiate the species of the genus is here given. Within each species we provide the valid name, synonyms, description of vegetative and reproductive morphological characters, geographical distribution, ecology, uses, common names, phenology, iconography and specimens examined. A lectotype is designated for D. viridis. Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Diplolepis. Sobre la base de informacin molecular y biogeogrfica publicada recientemente, se comprob que este grupo es monofiltico y su distribucin geogrfica se restringe al sudoeste de Sudamrica. El estudio comprendi una revisin de ejemplares de herbario, incluyendo a los tipos nomenclaturales, complementada con colecciones y observaciones de las especies en el campo. Se describe la variacin en la morfologa del gnero, incluyendo hbito, tallos, hojas, inflorescencia, cliz, corola, corona, ginostegio, polinarios, frutos y semillas. Se discuten las diferencias morfolgicas y de distribucin entre este gnero y gneros afines. Se presenta una clave para diferenciar las especies. Para cada especie se provee el nombre vlido, sinonimias, descripcin de caractersticas morfolgicas vegetativas y reproductivas, distribucin geogrfica, ecologa, usos, nombres vulgares, fenologa, iconografa y material examinado. Se designa un lectotipo para D. viridis.
23212957|The author has tried to clear up the species of Vicia (Leguminosae, vetches), which are indigenous in the Pampas and Mesopotamian plains in Argentina, an area of more than 620.000 square kilometers, where the Vicia-species are fairly common or abundant in the winter and spring vegetation. They are forage plants of good quality, but small and of low productivity; their self-seeding ability under natural pasture conditions is of interest, as is the medical value of some, V. graminea or V. epetiolaris, which contain anti-N-agglutinin and are therefore already cultivated in Europe. In his systematic treatment, the author gives a key, descriptions and illustrations, citing the herbarium material he has identified. He recognizes 10 species, of which 3 are new to science: V. macrograminea, V. epetiolaris and V. pampicola spec. novae. He restores V. platensis Speg., giving its latin diagnosis, and describes as minor novelties: V. setifolia H.B.K. var. bonariensis n. var., V. montevidensis Vog. f. oblonga n. f., V. stenophylla Vog. var. martinezii n. v. and V. graminea Sm. var. transiens n. v..Of V. graminea Sm., the oldest taxon of the group, four varieties are tentatively recognized and an isotype, borrowed from the Paris Museum, is illustrated.
23226712|Rhizidiomyces apophysatus and R. hirsutus were collected in an aquatic environment from Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Both species and the genus are reported for the first time for Argentina, being the southernmost records of these species in the Western Hemisphere. They were found as parasitic on oogonia of an unidentified species of the genus Achlya. Rhizidiomyces apophysatus and R. hirsutus fueron encontrados en un ambiente acutico de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Ambas especies y el gnero son citados por primera vez para la Argentina, y constituyen los hallazgos ms australes de estas especies para el hemisferio occidental. Fueron encontradas como parsitas sobre los oogonios de una especie no identificada del gnero Achlya.
23227142|Vicia macrograminea is confirmed for Argentina precisions about V. epetiolaris, V. graminea var. transiens and V. stenophylla are given. The geographical distribution of V. graminea is extended, and a new variety, Vicia epetiolaris var. microcarpa, is proposed. Also, the presence of V. andicola and V. setifolia in northwestern Argentina is confirmed. A key and illustrations to differentiate all studied species are included. En este trabajo se rehabilita el nombre Vicia macrograminea y se aclaran interpretaciones errneas de algunas especies, como V. epetiolaris, V. graminea var. transiens y V. stenophylla. Se ampla el rea de dispersin de V. graminea var. transiens y se propone una nueva variedad para la ciencia: Vicia epetiolaris var. microcarpa. Se confirma la presencia de V. andicola y V. setifolia en el NO de la Argentina. Se incluye una clave e ilustraciones para diferenciar las especies estudiadas.
23217337|Chromatography studies in seven species of Vicia (Leguminosae). The leaf alcoholic extracts of six native Argentine species of Vicia (subg. Vicilla, sect. Australis: V. gramineae, V. macrogramineae, V. epetiolaris, V. montevidensis, V. nana and V. pampicola) and one adventitious species (subg. Vicia, sect. Vicia: V. sativa subsp. nigra) were studied by bidimentional paper chromatography. Eighty phenolic compounds were found in 107 individuals that were studied. In spite of the high intraspecific variability, observed in all the species, the chromatographic identification was possible because of the presence of specific compounds in each of them. Numerical taxonomy methods were applied to estimate the degree of similarity. The distance and association coeficients used generated congruent phenograms that showed seven main groups which agreed with the seven species that were studied and confirm the exomorphological classification.
23217344|The genus Panicum (Poaceae: Paniceae) Sect. Cordovensia. In the present work Dichanthelium is treated as a subgenus of Panicum, being discussed the characters previously used by different authors for the segregation of the genus. Section Cordovensia is included within the subgenus and 5 American species are recognized in the section: P. cordovense Fournier, P. missionum Ekman, P. ovuliferum Trinius, P. pantrichum Hackel & P. rhizogonum Hackel. It is separated from the rest of the species of Dichanthelium by the absence of foliar dimorphism and lower palea in the spikelet.
23228243|In this paper, an ethnobotanical-ethnoarchaeological study of different local landraces of Cucurbita maxima subsp. maxima, Cucurbitaceae, was carried on. The aim was to evaluate if different qualitative and quantitative seed characters of these local landraces, as well as those which came from plants resulting from cultivation or husbandry, get together or not in different morphotypes which materially reflect the diversity locally recognized, as well as local practices. The construction of these morphotypes is proposed as a way to recognize local landraces and different forms of Man - plant interactions in archaeobotanical samples. Domesticated plants are the result of actions derived from selection criteria socially built and transformed, therefore they can constitute different morphotypes which act as carriers of social meanings. For this reason we believe that an ethnoarcheological ethnobotany which generates models to contrast in paleoethnobotanical work will be a good option. Macroscopical morphological descriptors commonly used in archaeobotany were employed together with new micromorphological ones. It was concluded that quantitative micromorphological characters are the most adequate ones to create morphotypes which correspond with locally recognized landraces and with husbandry practices locally developed upon vegetable populations. En este trabajo se realiza el estudio etnobotnico-etnoarqueolgico de diversos cultivos locales de Cucurbita maxima subsp. maxima, Cucurbitaceae. El objetivo es comprobar si los caracteres cuantitativos y cualitativos de las semillas procedentes de los mencionados cultivos, as como tambin de plantas resultantes de prcticas de cultivo o cuidado, se agrupan o no en morfotipos diferenciales que reflejen materialmente la diversidad localmente reconocida y los distintos comportamientos involucrados. La generacin de dichos morfotipos se propone como una va para explorar si es factible reconocer cultivares locales y distintas formas de relacin hombre - planta en muestras arqueobotnicas. Las plantas domesticadas son el producto de la puesta en prctica de criterios de seleccin socialmente construidos y por lo tanto susceptibles de constituir morfotipos diferenciales que operen como portadores de significados sociales. De all que podamos hablar de una etnobotnica etnoarqueolgica generadora de modelos a contrastar en el trabajo paleoetnobotnico. Se aplicaron los descriptores morfolgicos macroscpicos comnmente empleados en paleoetnobotnica y arqueobotnica para el estudio de semillas de Cucurbita sp., as como tambin un conjunto nuevo de descriptores micro morfolgicos. Se constat que los caracteres cuantitativos micro morfolgicos son los que mejor sirven para crear morfotipos que se corresponden con los cultivares localmente reconocidos y con las prcticas de cultivo o cuidado ejercidas sobre las poblaciones vegetales.
23223893|Forty-one samples of honey from Ro Negro valley were analyzed. Pollen content of the samples was acetolysed and identified using a collection of reference pollen slides. Twenty-six samples had a mixed floral origin, the other ones were monofloral from Tamarix gallica (8 samples), Eucalyptus sp. (2 samples), Melilotus sp. (1 sample), Centaurea sp. (1 sample), Prosopis sp. (1 sample), Brassicaceae (1 sample) and Monttea aphylla (1 sample). These honeys can be distinguished from those produced in the lower valley of Chubut river, in the same phytogeographical region. Se realiz el anlisis palinolgico de 41 muestras de miel del valle de Ro Negro. El contenido polnico de las muestras fue acetolizado e identificado por comparacin con una coleccin de polen de referencia. Del total de muestras examinadas, 26 fueron mixtas y las restantes monoflorales de: Tamarix gallica (8 muestras), Eucalyptus sp. (2 muestras), Melilotus sp. (1 muestra), Centaurea sp. (1 muestra), Prosopis sp. (1 muestra), Brassicaceae (1 muestra) y Monttea aphylla (1 muestra). Estas mieles pueden diferenciarse de aquellas que se producen en el valle inferior del ro Chubut, en la misma regin fitogeogrfica.
23217328|Pollen dimorphism and pollen viability in Tripogandra diuretica (Commelinaceae). One of the principal features of the genus Tripogandra is the possession of two staminal whorls which differ in length and in the shape and colour of the anthers (heterandry). In T. diuretica (C. Martius) Handlos the external, episepalous whorl, has three short stamens with white anthers (lower anthers) and white pollen. The internal one, epipetalous, consists of three long sigmoidal stamens with a tuft of moniliform violet hairs; the anthers are yellow (upper anthers) and the pollen is cream-coloured. The pollen of the lower anthers is 1-anacolpate of 17  21,5 m, with a tectate, baculate exine and a perforate tectum ornamented with small granules. Its cytoplasm and its two nuclei stain deeply in acetocarmine; its is viable, germinating easily in 10% sucrose. The pollen of the upper anthers is also 1-anacolpate, but of bigger size, 22  25,5 m. It has also a tectate, baculate exine with a perforate tectum, but ornamented with small granules plus spherical processes. Like the viable pollen it has also two nuclei, but both, nuclei and cytoplasm stain weakly with acetocarmine. It is inviable and it does not germinate in sucrose in any concentration (5-35%). Meiosis in the upper anthers is delayed with respect to meiosis in the lower ones. The differences between both kinds of pollen in T. diuretica, are less marked than in the others species of Tripogandra for which dimorphous pollen has been described.
23222516|Unreduced gametes and genomic relations in three species of Turnera (Turneraceae). Reciprocal hybridizations were made between T. grandidentata, 2n = 4x = 20, and two diploid species (2n = 2x = 10), T. krapovickasii and T. caerulea. The hybrids were studied cytologically to determine the relationship between these species. Besides triploid hybrids, two hybrids from unreduced egg cells were obtained, and one spontaneous hybrid was found. Meiosis in the T. grandidentata  T. krapovickasii triploid hybrid was very irregular with numerous laggards and some bridges; mean pairing relationships were 4.94 I, 4.81 II and 0.13 III. T. grandidentata  T. caerulea triploid hybrid showed only cells with bivalents and univalents and mean chromosome association of 5.41 and 4.8 II. Meiosis in T. krapovickasii  T. grandidentata tetraploid hybrid showed some laggards and bridges, with a mean chromosome association of 1.03 I, 6.48 II, 0.22 III and 1.35 IV. Meiosis in T. grandidentata  T. caerulea pentaploid hybrid showed only cells with 10 II + 5 I. In a previous paper the genome of T. krapovickasii was designated as AkAk. The present results indicate that T. grandidentata and T. krapovickasii have homeologous genomes while T. caerulea has a different one. The genomic formulas AgAgArAr and CC are proposed for T. grandidentata and T. caerulea, respectively. It is likely that polyploid species of Turnera erose probably through a sexual polyploidization process involving unreduced gametes.
23215739|This paper deals with the taxonomic study of soil algae in the surroundings of Buenos Aires (Argentina). Sixty-five species are studied. They belong to sixteen genera of Cyanophyceae distributed in five families and two Orders, and twenty genera of Chlorophyceae distributed in twelve families and six Orders. Among Cyanophyceae the family Oscillatoriaceae is the best represented with six genera and twenty species; among the Chlorophyceae, the Chlorococcaceae with six genera and eight species. The species Phormidium frigidum, Ph. subtruncatum, Ph. rubriterricola, Ph. papyraceum, Hydrocoleum brebissoni, Anabaena fertilissima, Tolypothrix brevis, Plectonema gracillimum (Cyanophyceae) and Chlamydomonas gloeopara, Bracteococcus minor, B. giganteus, Chlorococcum pinguideum, Chlorella fusca var. fusca, Ch. saccharophila var. saccharophila, Ch. zofingensis, Ch. minutissima and Klebsormidium subtile (Chlorophyceae) are new records for Argentina, and so are the genera Coccomyxa, Klebsormidium and Pleurococcus (Chlorophyceae). They are described and the species illustrated. Keys are given for the identification of the orders, families, genera and species.
23612325|This paper integrates archaeobotanical research conducted in Antofagasta de la Sierra based on the identification, anatomy, and use of both present plant resources and archaeological plant remains, recovered during fieldwork between 1994 and 2000. Transects starting from the archaeological sites, the surrounding plant communities, and the species found are described. Characterization of present plant diversity also included the popular name and actual use of every species. Archaeological plant remains were identified by anatomy in comparison with present plant species in the studied area and their anatomical characters are here described and documented with digital images taken with compound microscope (bright field) and scanning electron microscope. Finally, discussion includes past and present use of every species recovered in the archaeological sites from Antofagasta de la Sierra, highlighting those aspects that imply change or continuity through time. Se presenta una sntesis de los trabajos realizados sobre la identificacin, anatoma y usos de especies vegetales, actuales y recuperadas en el marco de las investigaciones arqueobotnicas, llevadas a cabo en Antofagasta de la Sierra durante las campaas arqueolgicas realizadas en los aos 1994-2000. Se describen las transectas realizadas a partir de los sitios arqueolgicos estudiados, las asociaciones vegetales caractersticas y se presenta un listado de las especies vegetales halladas. Se describe el uso actual y se seala el nombre vernculo para cada taxn. Luego, se presenta una descripcin anatmica de tallo, raz u hoja, dependiendo del caso, de cada uno de los taxones presentes en los sitios arqueolgicos, identificados por medio de la comparacin anatmica con material actual de referencia; se presentan las correspondientes fotomicrografas obtenidas con microscopio ptico y/o microscopio electrnico de barrido. Finalmente, se discute el uso, en la actualidad y en el pasado, de las especies recuperadas en los sitios arqueolgicos del rea de estudio, destacando aquellos aspectos que suponen cambio y continuidad a travs del tiempo.
23230190|The genus Pilopogon is represented by two species in Argentina: P. schilleri and P. guadalupensis. Pilopogon schilleri is known from Ro Negro to Tierra del Fuego and P. guadalupensis from Jujuy. The latter is recorded for the first time for Argentina, and a lectotype is designated here. Descriptions, photomicrographs of specific characters, distribution maps and a key to Argentinean species are included. El gnero Pilopogon esta representado por dos especies en Argentina: P. schilleri y P. guadalupensis. Pilopogon schilleri es conocido desde Ro Negro hasta Tierra del Fuego y P. guadalupensis para Jujuy. Este ltimo constituye el primer registro para la Argentina, y se designa aqu su lectotipo. Se incluyen descripciones, fotomicrografas de caracteres especficos, mapas de distribucin y una clave para las especies argentinas.
23217346|A new species of Tragia (Euphorbiaceae). Tragia giardellii Gutirrez et Mlg. from Argentina is described and illustrated. The presence of deciduous stipules, staminate flowers with 2 stamens and a central cushionshaped nectary without a vestigial pistil, a trisected bract in the pistillate flower, and papillose seed coat with subspherical and cylindrical papillae, are taken in consideration to support systematic conclusions.
23223852|Eight new species of Croton (Euphorbiaceac) from North-eastern and Central Argentina are described and illustrated: C. catamarcensis, C. cordobensis, C. eskuchei, C. laureltyanus, C. multirameus, C. ruderalis, C. tatacuensis and C. troncosoi. The distribution of the new species and their infrageneric position is discussed, according to the sections proposed by Webster (1993). Se describen e ilustran ocho especies nuevas de Croton (Euphorbiaceae) del nordeste y del centro de la Argentina: C. catamarcensis, C. cordobensis, C. eskuchei, C. laureltyanus, C. multirameus, C. ruderalis, C. tatacuensis y C. troncosoi. Se indican la distribucin y las afinidades de las nuevas especies, y tambin su posicin infragenrica de acuerdo con las secciones establecidas por Webster (1993).
23215704|Se ha llegado a la conclusin que las dos especies de Hutchinsia descritas de Chile y citadas para la Argentina, H. tenuis (Barn.) O. E. Schulz (basada en Draba tenuis Barn.) del norte de Chile y H. reticulata Griseb. del Estrecho de Magallanes, deben considerarse sinnimos de una especie del Viejo Mundo naturalizada en la regin, Hymenolobus procumbens (L.) Nutt. Por lo tanto, tambin carece de validez el gnero Microcardamum O. E. Schulz, basado en Draba tenuis Barn. Two species of Hutchinsia described from Chile and recorded from Argentina, H. tenuis (Barn.) O. E. Schulz (based on Draba tenuis Barn.) from the north of Chile and H. reticulata Griseb. from the Straights of Magellan, are synonyms of a species of the Old World naturalized in the region, Hymenolobus procumbens (L.) Nutt. Therefore, the genus Microcardamum O. E. Schulz, based ond Draba tenuis Barn., is a synonym of Hymenolobus Nutt.
23215042|A synopsis of the Pteridophytes of northwestern Argentina. Part 1. In the first part of this paper, the author gives basic information on the physiography, climate and vegetation of the studied area, which is localed in the northwestern corner of Argentina and covers the provinces of Jujuy, Salta, Catamarca, Tucumn and partially, Santiago del Estero and La Rioja. Also, in that general part, comments are made on the level of the local knowledge of the Pteridophytes. In the subsequent chapters, the author offers a key of families and the revision of Lycopodiaceas, Selagnellaceae, Equisetaceae, Psilotaceae, Ophioglossaceae, Schizaeaceae, Hymenophyllaceae, Cyatheaceae, Dennstaedtiaceae and Adiantaceae (according to Alston's classfication of the leptosporangiate ferns), with a total of 25 genera and 77 species. Under each taxon, the synonymy, types, relationships, cited specimens, distribution patterns and ecological information are given. Three new species are described: Hymenophyllum (Sphaerocionium) capurroi, Cheilanthes volcanensis and Piersis famatinensis and the following combinations are proposed : Adiantum thalictroides var. hirsutum (Hook & Grev.) and Pteris inermis (Rosenst.). Maps, graphs and illustrations of the new taxa are also given.
23228357|We studied different functional attributes on two Schoenoplectus californicus (C. A. Mey) Sjak marshes that appear as very similar communities in terms of structure and dominant species, although they are settled on opposite ends along a fluvial-tidal gradient in the Lower Delta of the Paran River. Obtained results showed a significantly higher net aboveground primary production (NAPP) in the marsh directly affected by tides (1999.41  211.97 g m year). In the upstream site, less prone to tidal flooding, S. californicus had a lower NAPP (1299.17  179.48 g m year) and the system showed a higher ability to keep the produced biomass within the marsh, with significantly higher amounts of standing dead biomass (1316.00  336.01 vs. 112.40  55.05 g m), as well as higher organic contents in soils (16.20  0.12 % vs. 0.70  0.08 %). Results of the present study suggest that high energy overland flows may change the marsh functioning from a stable system accumulating organic matter to an aggressively growing marsh with higher rates of mineral accumulation. Se estudiaron diferentes atributos funcionales de 2 pajonales de Schoenoplectus californicus (C. A. Mey) Sjak que son muy similares en su estructura y especie dominante, pero aparecen en los extremos opuestos a lo largo de un gradiente de influencia fluvial-mareal en el Bajo Delta del ro Paran. Los resultados mostraron una productividad primaria neta area (PPNA) significativamente ms alta en el pajonal afectado directamente por la marea (1999.41  211.97 g m ao). En el sitio aguas arriba, menos proclive a la inundacin por mareas, S. californicus tuvo una menor PPNA (1299.17  179.48 g m ao) y el sistema mostr una mayor capacidad para retener la biomasa producida dentro del pajonal, con cantidades significativamente mayores de biomasa muerta en pie (1316.00  336.01 vs. 112.40  55.05 g m) y mayores contenidos de materia orgnica en el suelo (16.20  0.12 % vs. 0.70  0.08 %). Los resultados obtenidos en este trabajo sugieren que los flujos superficiales de alta energa pueden cambiar el funcionamiento de estos pajonales, de un sistema estable acumulador de materia orgnica a un pajonal de rpido crecimiento, con altas tasas de acumulacin de sedimentos minerales.
23225112|This is the first taxonomic study of the genus Festuca in Colombia. A total of 31 native and 2 introduced species were distinguished, including 12 new species (F. boyacensis, F. chita, F. chitagana, F. cocuyana, F. hatico, F. monguensis, F. nereidaensis, F. pilar-franceii, F. sumapana, F. toca, F. venezuelana and F. woodii). The description of each taxa has been complemented with illustrations and data on habitat and distribution. This study also includes a key to all the Colombia species of Festuca. Se presenta el primer estudio taxonmico del gnero Festuca para Colombia, el cual se encuentra representado por 31 especies nativas y 2 especies introducidas. Se describen 12 especies y 1 subespecie nuevas para la ciencia (F. boyacensis, F. chita, F. chitagana, F. cocuyana, F. hatico, F. monguensis, F. nereidaensis, F. pilar-franceii, F. sumapana, F. toca, F. venezuelana y F. woodii). Se incluyen descripciones e ilustraciones de todas las especies, aportndose datos sobre su ecologa y distribucin geogrfica y una clave para facilitar la determinacin de todas las especies de Festuca en Colombia.
23225129|The neotropical genus Marsypianthes (Lamiaceae: Ocimeae) includes nearly 6 species distributed from Mexico to Bolivia, Brazil and northeastern Argentina. In the present study Marsypianthes hassleri is confirmed and M. chamaedrys is a new report for the Argentinian flora. Morphological and geographical data, types, synonymy, retypification of M. hassleri, identification key and iconography are provided. Marsypianthes (Lamiaceae: Ocimeae) es un gnero de Amrica tropical con 6 especies que se distribuyen desde Mxico hasta Bolivia, Brasil y el NE de Argentina. Se confirma la presencia de M. hassleri y se cita por vez primera a M. chamaedrys para la Flora Argentina, siendo el extremo sur de la distribucin geogrfica de ambas especies la provincia de Misiones (Dpto. San Ignacio) a orillas del ro Paran y el NE de la provincia de Corrientes, respectivamente. Se presenta informacin morfolgica y geogrfica, tipos, sinonimia, retipificacin de M. hassleri, una clave para identificar las especies e iconografa.
23213092|A perfect stage has been found for the imperfect Hypocreodendron sanguineum P. Henn. previously discussed by the authors, for which the new genus Discoxylaria is proposed, and the binomial D. mirmecophila n. sp. applied to this fungus. The position of the genus would be close to Pseudoxylaria Boedijn, and should be included among the Sarcostromellaceae Boedijn. The arguments for making Spegazzini's Poroniopsis a synonym of Hypocreodendron and favouring the new generic epithet are also given. Discoxylaria is characterized by having non-carbonaceous, xylariaceous stromata, apically crowned by a cup or disc-like structure containing "pycnidial" bodies in the trama, and by the presence of perithecia in the basal portion of the stromata, with protruding mouths.
23218920|Studies in the South American genus Junellia (Verbenaceae, Verbenoideae) I. Delimitation and infrageneric divisions. In the present paper the genus Junellia Mold. is accepted as such, and the limits towards related genera defined by means of a key. It is proposed to divide the genus into two subgenera: Junellia (with sections Junellia and Guedesia sect. nov.) and Thryothamnus (Phil.) stat. nov. (with sections Thryothamnus, Verticiflora (Schauer) stat. nov. and Junelliopsis sect. nov.); keys are provided for the identification of the infrageneric taxa here accepted, together with a provisional list of the species included. The type species of both subgenera are illustrated, and available information on karyology and geographical distribution is given, with a map showing the total range of the genus. A SEM study of the external and internal morphology of the mericarps with illustrations of diagnostic characters of the subgenera, and related genera are also included.
23222953|Five species of Solanum (S. commersonii Dunal, S. tarijense Hawkes, S. chacoense Bitter, S. gourlayi Hawkes and S. acaule Bitter), which present a great diversity with respect to their taxonomic relations, ploidy levels and modes of reproduction, were utilized (a) to establish if there exists cross-incompatibility between them, and (b) to gain information about the genetic nature of this barrier to hybridization. Cross-incompatibility prevents hybrid zygote formation in those crosses that involve S. tarijense as female parent and S. acaule as male parent, and in the crosses S. chacoense  S commersonii and S. gourlayi  S. commersonii. The hypothesis that cross-incompatibility is controlled by genes independent of the S locus explains the compatibility relations which emerge from the data obtained, and the existence of multiple sites of pollen tube growth inhibition in the pistils. I conclud that these 5 species became differentiated for the genes or gene complexes which control the processes that govern pollen-pistil interaction in each of them. The results obtained from the crosses between S. chacoense, S. tarijense and their interspecific hybrids affirm that the unilateral incompatibility which both species present would be determined by few genes with independent effects and gametophytic expression. Such reproductive isolation barrier would be an accidental by-product of the adaptative divergence which has accompanied the allopatric evolution of both species.
23222546|The chromosomes of Misodendron punctulatum (Misodendraceae). Chromosome number was determinated in Misodendrum punctulatum Banks ex DC. It was investigated on the mitotic division of the pollen grain. Its chromosome number was n = 8. This result differs from previous count of 2n = 12; x = 6.
23213869|Cynodon parodii Caro et Snchez was founded as new species in Kurtziana 5: 193, 1969, on the basis of C. dactylon (L.) Pers. var. sarmentosum L. R. Parodi, Rev. Arg. Agron. 23: 185. 1956. The main difference is the convolute vernation; in C. dactylon it is conduplicate. The anatomy of the leaf and the stolon adds new differences which make it clear that C. parodii is a good species.
23215578|The genus Leucheria belongs to the family Compositae, tribe Mutisieae, subtribe Nassauviinae. It is an important component of the Andean flora of southern South America and it occur in the Andean region from central Peru to Tierra del Fuego, most of Chile extra-Andean, Patagonia and Malvinas Islands. Leucheria has been proposed by Lagasca in 1811. Since the last century the following genera: Lasiorrhiza Lagasca, Chabraea De Candolle, Ptilurus Don, Eizaguirrea Remy, Clybatis Philippi and Mimela Philippi are considered synonymous of Leucheria. Under Leucheria and its synonymous have been proposed more than 200 names. This paper reports the result of a Systematics Revision of Leucheria, undertaken in an attempt to dispels the confusion that has prevailed in this taxon, to delimit species clearly and to provide means of identification. The present investigation is based on 4 years of study, including field works and an examination of specimens of numerous herbaria of South America, United States and Europe, having seen many type specimens. The design of this revision is: A. General Part B. Special Part, comprising the taxonomy C. Bibliography and Index to Names. The General Part comprising chapters on: History of the Genus, Generic relationships (with a key to the genera of the subtribe Nassauviinae), Morphological Analysis, Palynology, Cytology, Distribution and Ecology and Evolution. The Special Part comprising the key to the 46 recognized species of Leucheria, an accurate description of all the species and illustration of most of them. In every species a complete synonyms, range, critical notes, key to the next lower taxa (when they exist) and citation of representative specimens, have been given. A list of "Invalid Names" and a list of "Excluded Species" complete this part. Finally a well considered selection of literature and Index to Names have been included.
23216525|The present paper is a complementary study of the seeds of the aphyllous species of Cassia (see Bravo, 1978) from Argentina. Descriptions, illustrations and a key are given that allow to identificate the species, subspecies and varieties by means of its seeds.
23213893|En los tallos de Anthobryum triandrum se produce una temprana formacin de sber, de espesor mximo a nivel de los nudos y constituido por clulas de gran tamao muy alargadas anticlinalmente. El felgeno se origina en clulas corticales externas del tallo, pero al ser concrescente ste con la vaina estipular que es decurrente, queda el sber en una posicin aparentemente interna por lo que ha sido citado errneamente como  pericclico . El desarrollo de este tejido en tallos de distinta edad muestra que siempre las clulas recientemente formadas son muy alargadas en sentido radial y que las ms externas se van comprimiendo y aplastando hasta formar una masa compacta. Se ha investigado adems la formacin de este tejido en algunas especies de Frankenia, de caractersticas similares a las de Anthobryum triandrum; la diferencia estriba en que en Frankenia la vaina estipular no es decurrente. There is in the stems of Anthobryum triandrum an early occurrence of cork which attains its greatest thickness at the nodes. This cork is composed of large cells, radially elongated in transections. The phellogen arises in the outer cortical cells of the stem, concrescent with the stipular sheath; this sheath is decurrent with the stem and that is why the cork apparently rests in an internal position and was erroneously considerated as  periciclic  by some authors. The development of this tissue in stems of different ages was studied; in all of them the younger cells are radially elongated and the outer cells are gradually compressed and crushed forming a compact structure. This cork was investigated also in some species of Frankenia, being similar in its characters to that of Anthobryum.
23218941|Notes about Caesalpinia and Hoffmannseggia (Leguminosae-Caesalpiniodeae). Caesalpinia trichocarpa is a new record for the Flora of Peru and Bolivia; C. fisheriana and C. rosulata are considered its synonyms. Hoffmannseggia arequipensis, a new species, is described, illustrated and compared with its allies.
23223898|An inventory of types of Asteraceae described by A. L. Cabrera between 1931-1999 has been made. A total of 508 types (426 specific and 82 infraspecific names), wich are mainly kept in the Museo de La Plata herbarium (LP), were analyzed. Taxa are arranged in alphabetical order, followed by bibliographical and label data; the last name assigned to each taxon is also given. El presente trabajo representa un catlogo de los ejemplares tipo de 426 especies y 82 variedades de Asteraceae descriptas por A. L. Cabrera entre los aos 1931 y 1999. Los taxones se presentan en orden alfabtico. Para cada taxn se indica: diagnosis original, tipo nomenclatural, categora del tipo, herbario, etiqueta original y nombre actualizado.
41825712|A review of the Lycopodiaceae from Argentina and Uruguay, based on the study of relevant collections from herbaria as well as literature, is presented, according to the new classification of 16 genera grouped into three subfamilies. The family is represented by nine genera and 23 species; all taxa are described and at least one species of each subfamily is illustrated; one species (Huperzia saururoides) is lectotypified and three new synonyms are proposed: Austrolycopodium assurgens under Austrolycopodium erectum, Lycopodium sanctae-barbarae under Phlegmariurus saururus and Urostachys selago var. aschersonianus under Huperzia saururoides. Lycopodiella alopecuroides and Phlegmariurus subulatus are excluded from the studied area. Keys for all taxa are provided, as well as the relevant synonyms and a synthesis of the ecology and distribution. The most diverse genera are Phlegmariurus (seven species) and Austrolycopodium (five species). In Argentina, the family is represented by 22 species distributed in the three subfamilies. The northwestern region is the richest area of the country, with nine species. In Uruguay the family is represented by the subfamily Lycopodielloideae, with four species belonging to the genera Lycopodiella (two species), Palhinhaea (one species) and Pseudolycopodiella, represented by Pseudolycopodiella meridionalis. The latter, Palhinhaea camporum, and Huperzia fuegiana s. str. are new records for Argentina. Se presenta una revisin de las Lycopodiaceae de Argentina y Uruguay basada en el estudio de las colecciones relevantes de los herbarios argentinos y uruguayos, as como de la literatura, acorde a la nueva clasificacin de 16 gneros distribuidos en tres subfamilias. La familia est representada por nueve gneros y 23 especies; se describen todos los taxones y se ilustra al menos una especie de cada subfamilia. Se lectotipifica una especie (Huperzia saururoides) y se proponen tres nuevos sinnimos: Austrolycopodium assurgens bajo Austrolycopodium erectum, Lycopodium sanctae-barbarae bajo Phlegmariurus saururus y Urostachys selago var. aschersonianus bajo Huperzia saururoides. Se excluye del rea de estudio a Lycopodiella alopecuroides y Phlegmariurus subulatus. Se proveen claves para todos los taxones, la sinonimia relevante y una sntesis de la ecologa y la distribucin. Los gneros ms diversos son Phlegmariurus (siete especies) y Austrolycopodium (cinco especies). En Argentina la familia est representada por 22 especies distribuidas en las tres subfamilias. La regin con mayor riqueza es el noroeste, con nueve especies. En Uruguay la familia est representada por la subfamilia Lycopodielloideae, con cuatro especies pertenecientes a los gneros Lycopodiella (dos especies), Palhinhaea (una especie) y Pseudolycopodiella, representado por Pseudolycopodiella meridionalis. Esta ltima, Palhinhaea camporum y Huperzia fuegiana s. str. son nuevos registros para Argentina.
23612320|Leotia lubrica (Ascomycota, Leotiomycetes, Leotiales, Leotiaceae) was recorded for the first time from Argentina in Lago Puelo National Park, Chubut Province. It has been previously cited in the native forest of Chile, Los Lagos Region in southern South America. The species is distributed in temperate regions around the world. A description and photographs of the species are included. Leotia lubrica (Ascomycota, Leotiomycetes, Leotiales, Leotiaceae) se registra por primera vez para la Argentina en el Parque Nacional Lago Puelo, Chubut. La especie haba sido previamente citada en los bosques nativos de Chile en la Regin de los Lagos, en el sur de Sudamrica. La especie se distribuye en regiones templadas alrededor del mundo. Se incluye una descripcin y fotografas de la especie.
23218080|A taxonomic revision of the South American genus Bulnesia is presented, with descriptions and figures for its eight species. Two new subgenera are proposed: subgen. Bulnesia, having albuminate seeds and comprising four species (B. foliosa, B. schickendantzii, B. retama, B. chilensis) and subgen. Gonopterodendron (Gris.) Palacios et J. Hunziker stat. nov., characterized by exalbuminate seeds and also consisting of four species (B. arborea, B. carrapo, B. bonariensis, B. sarmientoi). A key to the subgenera and species is given. Special features of the genus such as its disjunct geographic distribution, dispersal ability, parthenocarpy, incidence of polyploidy, DNA content variation and possible evolutionary sequences are also briefly discussed.
23218081|This is the third contribution to the micromycetes growing on Nothofagus pumilio. Two Ascomycetes are recorded for the first time in Argentina. Wentiomyces sibiricus and Hyaloscypha zalewskii. Several other species of Fungi Imperfecti are described and illustrated.
23226713|This is the first report of Labyrinthulomycetes for Argentina. Five strains of Thraustochytriales were isolated from both, a saline continental environment and an estuarial one from Argentina. The strains were identified as Thraustochytrium aff. antarcticum, Ulkenia aff. radiata and U. aff. visurgensis because the observations did not exactly fit the original descriptions in the morphological and ecological aspects. Se presentan y describen cinco cepas de Thraustochytriales aisladas de dos ambientes: uno salino continental y otro estuarial. Debido a que las observaciones no coincidieron exactamente con las descripciones originales, tanto en lo morfolgico como en lo ecolgico, las cepas se determinaron como Thraustochytrium aff. antarcticum, Ulkenia aff. radiata y U. aff. visurgensis. Estos registros constituyen las primeras citas de Labyrinthulomycetes para Argetnina.
41825709|The frequent presence of smoking pipes in Early Ceramic Period archaeological sites in central Chile and the large body of evidence on the smoking of Nicotiana spp. in prehispanic sites elsewhere in the Americas call for a methodology to identify Nicotiana species used in Chile. We have performed a morphometric study on seeds of Nicotiana species which serves as a reference against which archaeological seeds may be compared. Seed shape and size, ornamentation pattern of epidermal cells, and location of the hilum were relevant parameters for reliable taxonomic determinations. Using these characters, we identified Nicotiana seeds found in Las Morrenas l archaeological site in central Chile as N. corymbosa. La presencia frecuente de pipas para fumar en sitios arqueolgicos del Perodo Alfarero Temprano de Chile central y las evidencias en relacin con la costumbre de fumar especies de Nicotiana halladas en sitios prehispnicos de otros lugares de las Americas, muestran la necesidad de contar con una metodologa para identificar las especies de este gnero usadas en Chile. En este trabajo se ha realizado un estudio morfomtrico en semillas de especies de Nicotiana que sirve de referencia para comparaciones con semillas de origen arqueolgico. La forma y tamao de la semilla, el patrn de ornamentacin dado por las clulas epidrmicas y la ubicacin del hilum resultaron ser caracteres relevantes para identificaciones confiables. Utilizando estos caracteres, se determinaron como N. corymbosa a las semillas recuperadas en el sitio arqueolgico Las Morrenas 1, ubicado en Chile central.
23223210|Bauhinia affinis Vogel is reported for the first time in the NE extreme of Argentina. The number of species of the genus recorded for the country is increased to 7. The species is described and illustrated indicating its geographic distribution; its affinities with the related species are discussed and a diagnostic key for its identification in Argentine flora is included.
23223244|Chromosome numbers and observations on meiotic chromosome behaviour of 27 taxa of South American Paniceae are given. Of these, 6 are new counts. The taxa studied are: Axonopus suffultus (n = 10), Digitaria ciliaris (n = 18), Echinochloa crus-pavonis (n = ca. 18), Eriochloar punctata (n = 18), Ichnanthus minarum (n = 10), I. pallens (n = 10, n = ca. 20), I. tenuis (n = 10, n = 20), Oplismenus hirtellus (n = ca. 45), Panicum heliophilum (n = 9), P. sabulorum var. polycladum (n = ca. 18), P. schwackeanum (n = 10), P. stramineum (n = 18), Paspalum almum (n = 12), P. bertonii (n = 10), P. candidum (n = ca. 20), P. commune (n = 20), P. compressifolium (n = 10), P. denticulatum (n = 20), P. humboldtianum (n = 10), P. inaequivalve (n = 30), P. indecorum (n = 10), P. malacophyllum (n = 20), P. aff. malacophyllum (n = 20), P. plicatulum (n = ca. 20), P. remotum (n = 40), P. umbrosum (n = 10), P. usteri (n = 20), and Pennisetum montanum (n = 16). New counts are given for Ichnanthus minarum, Panicum heliophilum, P. schwackeanum, Paspalum remotum, P. usteri, and Pennisetum montanum. Also, the counts given for Paspalum candidum, P. compressifolium, and P. humboldtianum, are different from the ones previously reported. The meiotic behaviour of some of the materials examined is discussed.
23215552|Two species new to science of the genus Aristida (Gramineae) are described and illustrated, including anatomical characteristics of the leaves. They have been found in the Argentinian "puna" (province of Jujuy).
23216454|In this paper the authors study the occurrence of natural hybridization among some species of Prosopis from Sect. Algarobia, Series Ruscifoliae and Series Chitenses. The methods used consisted of field observations, exomorphological analysis and bidimensional paper chromatography. The species and the different interspecific combinations are analysed separately. They conclude it is possible to recognise three main areas where hybridization occurs spontaneously. They analyse the different possibilities of fertilization of the hybrids and the pre and postzygotic isolation barriers that could be active in the genus Prosopis. Finally, they consider which are the main factors that allow the establishment and survival of the hybrids, as well as which are the taxonomic and biological ranks, they believe, the entities studied deserve.
23215622|En el presente trabajo se dan a conocer los nmeros cromosmicos de once especies en cinco gneros de la subfamilia Zygophylloideae, diez de los cuales son recuentos originales. Porlieria microphylla sera tetraploide con 2n = 52 (x = 13). Plectrocarpa tetracantha es diploide con n = 13 (x = 13), mostrando una meiosis regular con formacin de 13 bivalentes. En el gnero Bulnesia se han estudiado los cromosomas somticos en siete especies, seis de ellas son diploides con 2n = 26 (x = 13): B. arborea, B. carrapo, B. foliosa, B. retama, B. sarmientoi y B. schickendantzii. La especie restante (B. bonariensis) sera tetraploide con 2n = 52. La polisomata es bastante frecuente dentro de este gnero. Se estudi adems el comportamiento de los cromosomas meiticos en cinco de las especies de Bulnesia (B. arborea, B. carrapo, B. foliosa, B. retama y B. schickendantzii) y fue regular en todas ellas, con la formacin de 13 bivalentes. B. retama presenta cromosomas de tamao considerablemente mayor que las otras especies, su caritipo est formado por 4 m + 12 sm + 10 st. El resto de las especies parece poseer caritipos ms simtricos que el de B. retama, aunque no ha sido posible determinarlos completamente dado el tamao pequeo de sus cromosomas; B. schickendantzii poseera un caritipo formado por 14 m + 12 sm. La asimetra del caritipo y el mayor tamao de los cromosomas, observados en B. retama, parecen concordar con una mayor especializacin y adaptacin a ambientes ridos. Sericodes greggii posee 2n = 30 (x = 15). Por este ltimo dato este gnero no parece estar muy relacionado con Larrea (x = 13), como lo sugiere la exomorfologa de las flores y los frutos. El nmero bsico x = 15 postulado para Sericodes es nuevo para la familia Zygophyllaceae. Pintoa chilensis es diploide y posee 2n = 20. The present work deals with the chromosome numbers of eleven species in five genera of the subfamily Zygophylloideae, ten of which are new counts. Porlieria microphylla would be tetraploid with 2n = 52 (x = 13). Plectrocarpa tetracantha is diploid with n = 13 (x = 13) showing regular meiosis with 13 bivalents. In the genus Bulnesia the somatic chromosomes have been studied in seven species; six of them are diploid with 2n = 26 (x = 13): B. arborea, B. carrapo, B. foliosa, B. retama, B. sarmientoi y B. schickendantzii. The other species, B. bonariensis would be tetraploid with 2n = 52. Polisomaty is frequent in this genus. This rises some doubt on the somatic counts made in Porlieria microphylla and Bulnesia bonariensis. The behaviour of the meiotic chromosomes was also studied in five of the species of Bulnesia (B. arborea, B. carrapo, B. foliosa, B. retama and B. schickendantzii); it was found that it was regular in all of them, with the occurrence of 13 bivalents. B. retama has chromosomes of considerable longer size than the other species, its karyotype is formed by 4 m + 12 sm + 10 st. The remaining species seem to posees more symetric karyotypes than this of B. retama, even when it was not possible to determine them precisely because of the small size of the chromosomes. Likewise B. schickendantzii have a karyotype formed by 14 m + 12 sm. The asymetry of the karyotype and the larger size of the chromosomes observed in B. retama seem to be correlated with a greater specialization and adaptation to dry regions. Sericodes greggii posses 2n = 30 (x = 15). This fact suggests that this genus is not closely related to Larrea (x = 13) as it has been proposed on the basis to the exomorfology of flowers and fruits. The basic number x = 15 postulated for Sericodes is new for the family Zygophyllaceae. Pintoa chilensis is diploid and presents 2n = 20 (x = 10).
23223259|Eleocharis tucumanensis Barros grows in the high mountains of Argentina, Bolivia and Chile. The anatomical structure of culms was studied and showed it is a C species. A complete description, illustrations, and SEM micrographs of the achenes are given.
23222528|Chromosome studies in Bomarea and Alstroemeria (Alstroemeriaceae). Chromosome numbers were determined and observations were made on the meiotic behavior of Bomarea setacea (Ruiz et Pavon) Herbert (n = 9) from Colombia, here investigated cytologically for the first time, Bomarea edulis (Tussac) Herbert (n = 9), Alstroemeria psittacina Lehmann (n = 8) and Alstroemeria aurea Graham (n = 8). The materials from the last three species were collected in Argentina. The differences in chromosome number and size between Alstroemeria L. and Bomarea Mirbel are emphasized, the latter genus having smaller chromosomes. Other morphological differences are also pointed out. It is suggested that Alstroemeria (x = 8) may have derived from Bomarea (x = 9) by translocation of essential genetic material to other chromosomes, loss of a centromere and addition of repetitive DNA in all chromosomes.
23216480|Critical revision of the species of Hysterionica (Compositae) from Central Argentina; all the species are described and a key is included for its identification. The species are: H. dianthifolia (Griseb.) Cabr.; H. dianthifolia var. pulvinata (Cabr.) Ariza nov. st.; H. bakeri Hick.; H. pulchella Cabr.; H. jasionoides Willd.; H. aberrans var. hunzikeri Ariza nov. var. and H. cabrerae Ariza nov. sp.; the last 2 are taxonomic novelties and are illustrated.
23216542|This paper deals with the systematic study of the Argentine species of the Sections Caulanthon Benth. and Chloroleucon Benth. from the genus Pithecellobium Mart. The species of Sect. Caulanthon, P. cauliflorum (Willd.) Mart., P. divaricatum Benth. and P. pithecolobioides (Harms) Hassler are restricted to the Selvas Marginales of the Paranense phytogeographic province. Two of the species of Sect. Chloroleucon, P. chacense Burk. and P. grisebachianum Harms are distributed in the Sierras Subandinas of the phytogeographic province of the Yungas; P. scalare Griseb. of the same section has a wide distribution in the northern part of the country. The first revision of the genus for Argentina was made by A. Burkart (1952) who mentions five species, a new species for the country is added in this paper, P. divaricatum Benth. The systematic treatment is preceded by an analysis of morphological characters that includes anatomy of petioles, types of trichomes, pollen and nectaries. The morphological study of the seeds is added as a complement after the systematic treatment; it has been possible to construct a key which allows to identify the species by its means.
23222574|The inflorescence architecture of Schizachyrium tenerum Nees y S. salzmannii (Trin. ex Steud.) Nash. has been analyzed with the aim of establishing its tipology. The inflorescence is polytelic and truncate in both species, with a very developed paracladial zone made up of the short paracladia and long paracladia.
23217339|Two new genera for Argentina: Mallomonopsis Matv. and Paraphysomonas de Saed. This paper deals with two genera of Chrysophyceae, Mallomonopsis and Paraphysomonas new for Argentina. Mallomonopsis elliptica var. elliptica, M. parvula nov. comb., M. paxillata. and Paraphysomonas vestita are described and illustrated.
90005710|This contribution intends to clarify the current name of a species of
23210020|In Anlehnung an Herzogs Monographie (1935) wurde diese kleine Arbeit fr das Gebiet von Argentinien fertiggestellt, und es liesse sich zusammenfassend sagen: In der hiesigen Flora sind nur zwei Arten der Gattung Salvinia vertreten, S. auriculata Aubl. und S. rotundifolia Willd., und zwar kommen sie in den Flussgebieten der Strme Paran, Uruguay und de la Plata vor. S. auriculata wird bis zu 20 cm gross; die Sprossachse weist ein im Querschnitt U-frmiges Gefssbndel auf; die Luftbltter sind kahnfrmig zusammengefaltet, an der Spitze tief eingekerbt und sind auf der Oberseite mit dichten Reihen von Papillen bedeckt, die je vier, am Ende verwachsene, mehrzellige Hrchen tragen; das Wasserblatt besteht aus einem Bschel behaarter, fadenfrmiger Zipfel, an deren inneren, die Sori entstehen; an der Basis des sehr verkrzten fertilen Zipfels befinden sich zwei, nicht immer gestielte Macrosori, und der Spitze zu, mehere Paare sitzender Microsori; erstere enthalten 30 bis 50 Macrosporangien, letztere 300 bis 500 Microsporangien. S. rotundifolia, kleiner als die vorige, wird bis zu 8 cm gross; die Sprossachse weist ein im Querschnitt fast rundes Gefssbundel auf; die Luftbltter, auch kahnfrmig zusammengefaltet, sind kaum oder garnicht eingekerbt; die Oberseite ist mit dichten Reihen von Papillen best, welche jedoch vier auseinanderragende Hrchen tragen; das zerschlitzte Wasserblatt, trgt an den inneren Zipfeln die Sori, an der Basis zwei Macrosori, der Spitze zu mehrere Microsori; der fertile Zipfel ist weniger stark verkrzt als bei S. auriculata, so dass zwischen den sitzenden Sori Raum bleibt, was bei der Obigen nicht der Fall ist. Die weiblichen enthalten 25 bis 50 Macrosporangien, die mnnlichen 250 bis 500 bedeutend kleinere Microsporangien. Im Grossen und Ganzen ist mir aufgefallen, dass S. rotundifolia reichlicheres Sporenmaterial liefert als S. auriculata; diese hingegen sehr gut in Kultur gedeiht und ansehnliche Exemplare liefert, die denn auch zum Schmuck von Wasserbecken verwandt werden.
23218948|Johannesbaptistia pellucida (Cyanophyta, Entophysalidaceae): genus and species new for Argentina. In the present paper Johannesbaptistia pellucida (Dickie) W. R. Taylor & Drouet is studied. Description and illustrations as well as ecological observations are added. Johannesbaptistia whitfordii Thomas & Gonzalves is considered a synonim of J. pellucida.
23225115|Carex microglochin (Cyperaceae), a member of Carex sect. Leucoglochin, is a bipolar species that, for the most part, occurs in the northern part of the Northern Hemisphere and in the Andean region of South America. A majority of past and present workers have treated the northern plants as subsp. microglochin, whereas the southern plants have been referred to subsp. fuegina. However, it is demonstrated in this paper that two closely-related yet taxonomically-distinct species. C. camptoglochin and C. microglochin, occur in South America, these differing both morphologically and ecologically. Regarding the South American distribution of these two species, it is documented below that: (1) C. microglochin occurs sporadically throughout nearly the full extent of the Andes; (2) C. microglochin and C. camptoglochin grow sympatrically in both the boreal and austral parts of South America; and (3) C. camptoglochin occurs as a disjunct on the Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas). Carex microglochin (Cyperaceae, Carex, sect. Leucoglochin) es una especie bipolar. La mayora de los autores, han considerado las plantas del hemisferio Norte como subsp. microglochin, mientras que las plantas del hemisferio Sur se refirieron a la subsp. fuegina. En esta nota se demuestra que este ltimo taxn corresponde a dos especies estrechamente relacionadas aunque taxonmicamente distintas, C. camptoglochin y C. microglochin, ambas en Sud Amrica, las que difieren tanto en su morfologa como en su hbitat. En relacin con la distribucin sudamericana de estas dos especies, se documenta que: (1) C. microglochin habita ocasionalmente casi a todo lo largo de los Andes: (2) C. microglochin y C. camptoglochin son simptricas en Sud Amrica, tanto austral como septentrional, y (3) C. camptoglochin habita como disyunta en las Islas Malvinas (Falkland Islands).
23222533|Morphological variations of Surirella ovalis (Bacillariophyceae). The valve morphology of Surirella ovalis Brbisson from El Divisorio Stream, Argentina was studied in the light and scanning electron microscope. Three forms are described and illustrated, extending the description of this species.
23218947|Systematic study of the Hyphomycetes from Santiago River (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina). This is the first contribution to the knowledge of the Hyphomycetes growing on organic matter in Santiago River (near La Plata). Ten genera of Hyphomycetes are recorded for the first time for Argentina. Dictyochaeta assamica (Agnihothrudu) Arambarri, Cabello et Mengascini nov. comb. is proposed.
darwiniana.3.2.214|The new name
23223230|I. Rehabilitation of Alvaradoa subovata Cronquist (Simaroubaceae), the correct scientific name for the "pichi blanco". II. Roupala cataractarum Sleumer is a synonym of Roupala brasiliensis Klotzch (Proteaceae). A brief account regarding the validated nomenclature, Roupala brasiliensis and Alvaradoa subovata, for both taxa is given. Pollen observations obtained from SEM, in order to complement the identifications, are also given.
23225174|Three new species of Carex (Cyperaceae) are described from Bolivia. Each of them, Carex peruvida, C. ownbeyi, and C. beckii, is known only from the type locality. Additionally, a new name, C. fossa, and a new combination, C. subdivulsa, are presented here and a neotype is selected for the name C. subdivulsa. Se describen tres nuevas especies de Carex (Cyperaceae) de Bolivia. Cada una de ellas, Carex peruvida, C. ownbeyi y C. beckii es conocida solo en la localidad del tipo. Adems se presentan un nuevo nombre, C. fossa, y una nueva combinacin, C. subdivulsa y un neotipo es seleccionado para este ltimo nombre.
23222987|The main reproductive aspects of this South American species, a potential crop for arid lands, were studied in garden-grown and wild populations: Pollen-ovule ratios; crossing behavior; reproductive success and plant-pollinator interactions. A high pollen-ovule ratio indicates xenogamy. The species is self-incompatible and produces nearly 90% and 67% of fruit set in outcrossing in garden-grown and wild plants respectively; the flowers are visited by many insects, mainly honey bees, flies and solitary bees.
23218914|The genus Azorella (Apiaceae-Hydrocotyloideae) in Argentina. Azorella comprises about 30 species of mainly Andean cushion plants. This work deals with a morphological and taxonomic revision of Argentine species. At present, 15 species are recognized for this country. The history of the genus, relationships with other genera, morphological features and some aspects of reproductive biology are analyzed; up to date literature on embryology and cytology is briefly presented and discussed. The taxonomic treatment includes a description for the genus, a key to recognize Argentine species and a list of excluded names. A description, illustrations and a distribution map of each species are given. Nomenclatural problems, intraspecific variability and affinities with other species are also analyzed. A. diversifolia Clos is a new record for Argentina. The names A. cespitosa Cav. and A. gilliesii (Hook.) Hook. & Arn. are reduced to synonymy for the first time.
darwiniana.2.2.277|
               
23224216|A survey of phoenicoid fungi occuring in burnt areas near San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina, is given. Until now, scarce information on this group of organisms has been provided from that country. The studied species are listed with comments on their habitats and distribution in Argentina. Ascobolus carbonarius, Peziza violacea, Plicaria endocarpoides and Jugulospora rotula are new records for Argentina. Se presenta un relevamiento de hongos fenicoides que se desarrollan en reas quemadas prximas a San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina. Hasta la fecha se dispone de escasa informacin sobre este grupo de organismos en el pas. Las especies estudiadas se detallan en una lista con comentarios sobre sus hbitats y distribucin en Argentina. Ascobolus carbonarius, Peziza violacea, Plicaria endocarpoides y Jugulospora rotula son citadas por primera vez para Argentina.
23218911|Diatoms (Bacillariophyceae) from the province of Santiago del Estero (Argentina): I. This is the first contribution to the knowledge of the diatom flora of Santiago del Estero province (Repblica Argentina). From 7 samples analized 106 species were identified including varieties and formae, 13 of which are new records for Argentina. A new form: Navicula tackei Hust. fa. major is described.
23225122|Synflorescences of 17 species of Melica belonging to the argentinian flora were studied from a typological point of view. These species have polytelic inflorescences with a main florescence and a similar structural pattern in the paracladial zone. Processes of truncation and homogeneization were not observed. Among species, inflorescences mainly differ by the number, divergence and degree of ramification of primary paracladia, and by the progressive or rapid reduction in length of the internodes in the main axis. Prophyllar located paracladia increase the ramification of the antotagma region. Only M. sarmentosa develops paracladia with trophotagma below the flowering unit. Sinflorescencias de 17 especies del gnero Melica presentes en Argentina han sido estudiadas desde el punto de vista tipolgico. Las inflorescencias son politlicas, presentan florescencia principal, no sufrieron procesos de homogeneizacin y/o truncamiento y muestran un patrn similar de desarrollo de la zona paracladial. Las principales variaciones se observan en el nivel del nmero de paracladios primarios, grado de ramificacin de los paracladios primarios, reduccin gradual o brusca de la longitud de los entrenudos del eje principal, disposicin adpresa o divergente de los paracladios. El grado de ramificacin del antotagma se amplifica por el desarrollo de paracladios en posicin profilar. La mayora de las especies (excepto M. sarmentosa) carecen de paracladios largos con trofotagma.
23222555|Lycianthes (Dunal) Hassler is accepted as a genus more closely related to Capsicum L. and Witheringia L'Heritier, rather than to Solanum L.; the evidences are based on the structure and the inervation of the calyx. With a tropical and subtropical range, the genus is represented in the northern part of the Argentinian territory by the following 5 species: L. asarifolia (Kunth et Bouch) Bitter, L. australe (Morton) A. T. Hunz. et Barboza nov. comb., L. lycioides (L.) Hassler, L. rantonnei (Carrire) Bitter and L. saltensis Bitter. The key to facilitate the identification of these species includes androecium characters hitherto not mentioned in the literature, vgr.: heterodynamous versus homodynamous stamens, filaments with or without a basal hump in its free portion, etc. These characters, together with the remaining ones that are useful for the specific delimitation, are thoroughly discussed in the text.
23223201|This paper deals with the epiphytic algae found in a channel and in an artificial pond in Estacin Experimental INTA Delta (Buenos Aires, Argentina). These algae are in relation with a carp population that feeds on them in their early stages. A total of 21 taxa were identified. One was a new taxon, Uronema elongatum Hoodgetts var. robustus L. Mercado et Vigna, and six are new records for Argentina. Among the Cyanophyceae, the 60% were associated algae whereas the rest were epiphytic on emergent macrophytes. The coccoid Xantophyceae were found on filamentous Chlorophyceae, whereas the filaments themselves were epiphytic on emergent macrophytes.
23216541|The finding of Selaginella apoda (L.) Fernald naturalized specie in the Baha de Corral, Provincia de Valdivia is comunicated. A description and antecedents about the systematic position and geographic distribution of the specie are given. Besides, same consideration about its origin and the importance of this neofite in the Chilean flora are given.
23216535|A chromosome number of 2 n = 16 is reported for Schlechtendahlia luzulaefolia Less. Its kariotype is formed by: 4 m + 6 sm + 4 st + 2 t.
23230192|A new species, Pentacalia poeppigiana (Asteraceae, Senecioneae), known to date from Lima department in the western slopes of the Peruvian Andes, is described and illustrated. Due to its characteristics, it appears distantly related to the rest of congeners, but a close relationship with Senecio tingoensis seems likely. As suggested by preliminary molecular studies, the new taxon should be transferred to a new genus that would also include S. tingoensis and perhaps some other 'anomalous' Andean Senecio species. Further remarks on the morphological affinities, geographical distribution, ecological preferences, and conservation status of P. poeppigiana are included. Una nueva especie, Pentacalia poeppigiana (Asteraceae, Senecioneae), conocida hasta el momento para el departamento de Lima en los Andes occidentales del Per, es descrita e ilustrada. Debido a sus caractersticas, muestra relaciones distantes con el resto de sus congneres, aunque un vnculo estrecho con Senecio tingoensis parece probable. Estudios moleculares preliminares sugieren que este nuevo taxn debera ser transferido a un nuevo gnero que incluira adems a S. tingoensis y quiz otros elementos 'anmalos' andinos de Senecio. Se incluyen comentarios adicionales sobre las afinidades morfolgicas, distribucin geogrfica, preferencias ecolgicas y estado de conservacin de P. poeppigiana.
23213270|The author comments on two old herbaria in England, which he examined in July, 1958, in search for specimens from Argentina. Having published formerly an account on the Hortus Elthamensis of Dillenius, 1732, and its importance for Argentine Botany (Burkart, 1957), he now completes the information on two early collectors of plants in Buenos Aires. These are John Mylam and Francis Hall, doctors of the South Sea Company, who sent pant specimens from Argentina's capital to Dillenius in the years 1726-1728. The Sloane Herbarium at the British Museum (Nat. History) in London, fournished only doubtful evidence of some still earlier collecting in Buenos Aires and Patagonia (Magellan Strait). The Sherard-Dillenius Herbarium at Ovford University, contains what may be called with a high degree of safety the oldest documentated herbarium still preserved from Buenos Aires city, and probably from Argentina as a whole. An annotated systematic list of these herbarium specimens is presented. Sixty nine species collected by Mylam and Hall, mostly labelled Buenos Aires 1726 and 1728, have been identified. Many of them still grow there as about 240 years before, but some no longer are to be found the southern shores of the Ro de la Plata, f. i. Acaena sp., Stylosanthes gracilis var., two Psidium spec., Passiflora foetida, Borreria cfr. verbenoides, etc.
23222573|Five taxa of freshwater Bacillariophyceae were studied in the light and/or scanning electron microscope. Navicula margalithii Lange-Bertalot, Navicula menisculus Schumann and Navicula kotzchyi var. robusta Hustedt are new records for Argentina. Navicula decussis strup y Achnantes affinis Grunow were previously mentioned in Neuqun and Tierra del Fuego respectively. Each taxa is described and illustrated.
23230235|A sinopsis of genus Junellia is here presented, following the recent re-circumscription of the genus based on morphologically founded molecular phylogenetic studies. A key to the 37 Junellia species recognized by the latest delimitation of the genus is here proposed, as well as an actualized description of the genus and its differentiation from related genera from tribe Verbeneae. Nine species and one variety of Junellia, never taxonomically treated before, are here described and/or illustrated, or their description is here amended. Two new combinations: Junellia hookeriana var. catamarcensis and Junellia trifida, and eight new synonyms are here proposed. Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero Junellia, fundamentada en la reciente recircunscripcin del gnero sobre la base de estudios de filogenia molecular y anlisis de caracteres morfolgicos. Se aporta una clave que incluye las 37 especies de Junellia segn la ms actual definicin del gnero, se presenta una descripcin actualizada del gnero y se establecen las diferencias con los dems gneros de la tribu Verbeneae. Se describen y/o ilustran nueve especies y una variedad de Junellia no tratadas previamente o cuyas descripciones son aqu enmendadas. Se proponen tambin dos nuevas combinaciones: Junellia hookeriana var. catamarcensis y Junellia trifida, y ocho nuevos sinnimos.
23612304|We present the analysis of plant remains recovered from the archaeological site Cueva Huenul 1, Neuqun Province, Argentina, which provides new insights on the timing of peopling, environment exploitation and use of plant resources. The chronological sequence of the site extends from the Pleistocene-Holocene transition to recent times. The archaeological remains might have been deposited by societies with a hunter-gatherer subsistence. The recovered taxa correspond to native wildlife, which are consistent with the landscape of northern Patagonia, as well as to one domesticated taxon (Lagenaria sp.). The assemblage is studied from a taphonomic perspective to assess the influence of anthropic and natural processes of formation. Finally, these results were integrated with other archaeological and palaeoecological data, allowing a first assessment of human subsistence at the scale of the site. The spatial expansion of this study will provide the basis to study the variation in human subsistence across different environmental settings in northwestern Patagonia. Se presenta el anlisis de los restos vegetales provenientes del sitio Cueva Huenul 1, Provincia de Neuqun, Argentina, el cual aporta nuevos conocimientos sobre el proceso de poblamiento, la explotacin del medio ambiente y el uso de los recursos vegetales. La secuencia cronolgica del sitio abarca desde la transicin Pleistoceno-Holoceno hasta tiempos recientes. Los restos arqueolgicos podran haber sido depositados por sociedades cazadoras-recolectoras. Los taxones recuperados corresponden a especies silvestres autctonas, las cuales concuerdan con el paisaje regional, y a un taxn domesticado (Lagenaria sp.). Se aborda el anlisis tafonmico a fin de evaluar la incidencia antrpica o natural en la formacin del conjunto arqueobotnico estudiado. Finalmente, se integran estos resultados con los datos proporcionados por otros indicadores arqueolgicos y paleoecolgicos, permitiendo una primera caracterizacin de la subsistencia humana en la escala del sitio. La ampliacin espacial de este anlisis permitir evaluar la variacin en la subsistencia en diferentes ambientes del noroeste de Patagonia.
23216539|This paper deals with four species of Rhynchospora Vahl (subgenus Haplostylis (Nees) Pax) from Argentina: 1) R. floribunda Bck.; 2) R. hieronymii Bck. subsp. hieronymii and subsp. montevidensis (Barros) nov. stat., 3) R. holoschoenoides (L. C. Richard) Herter. All of them were described and illustrated. The achenes of each species have also been studied with the Scanning Electronic Microscope. 4) R. scutellata Gris, is the correct name for R. pringlei Grenman.
41825716|Dennstaedtia dissecta is recorded for the first time for the Argentinean flora in the Misiones Province. This new record was discovered during the study of herbarium specimens from BA and LP, and then corroborated with field collections from Cruce Caballero Provincial Park and Urugua- Provincial Park. In addition to the characteristics of rhizome and lamina, the spores were an important information source for the identification of this species. The diagnostic characters are described and illustrated, including a key to identify the species of Dennstaedtia from Misiones. Se cita por primera vez para la flora argentina a Dennstaedtia dissecta, hallada en la provincia de Misiones. Este nuevo registro surgi del estudio de ejemplares de los herbarios BA y LP, y luego se corrobor con colecciones realizadas en los Parques Provinciales Cruce Caballero y Urugua-. Adems de las caractersticas del rizoma y la lmina, las esporas resultaron una importante fuente de informacin en la identificacin de esta especie. Se describen e ilustran los caracteres diagnsticos, y se incluye una clave para identificar a las especies de Dennstaedtia presentes en Misiones.
23612313|Festuca rigescens in known from the flora of Peru and Bolivia, but in this contribution we extend its geographical distribution to Chile and Argentina. We recircunscribe the specific limits of Festuca nardifolia, usually confused with the previous species, and we exclude it from Chile. We present illustrations and detailed descriptions of the morphology and anatomy of both species and a taxonomic key to discriminate between morphologically related species from Chile and Argentina. We designate lectotypes for F. deserticola and F. paupera, and new synonyms for F. rigescens: Festuca deserticola, F. paupera, F. petersonii, and F. saltana. Festuca rigescens es conocida para la flora de Per y Bolivia y en esta contribucin se amplia su distribucin para Argentina y Chile. Se recircunscriben los lmites especficos de Festuca nardifolia, especie comnmente confundida con la anterior, y se la excluye de Chile. Se ilustran y se describen detalladamente la morfologa y anatoma de ambas especies y se presenta una clave para distinguirlas de las especies morfolgicamente ms afines en Argentina y Chile. Se seleccionan lectotipos para F. deserticola y F. paupera. Se establecen nuevos sinnimos bajo F. rigescens: Festuca deserticola, F. paupera, F. petersonii y F. saltana.
23215598|In this paper the author studies the seedlings of the subspecies of Cassia aphylla Cav., cultivated under uniform conditions. As a conclusion establishes that there exist good distributional and genotypical differences betwenn the two taxa, and so confirms the changes of rank realised by the same author in a previous paper (Bravo, L., 1978).
23215064|Basndose en un estudio de los tipos, el autor aclara la identidad de las especies Cyperus laetus Presl y Cyperus rigens Presl, considerando sus relaciones con las especies afines C. impolitus Kth. C, tacnensis Nees & Meyen, despus de revisar numerosos ejemplares de herbario. Hace las combinaciones nuevas : Cyperus rigens ssp. rigens var. maximus (Kkth.) T. M. Ped., Cyperus rigens ssp. cephalanthus (Torr. & Hook.) T. M. Ped., Cyperus rigens ssp. arechavaletae (Bcklr.) T. M. Ped., Cyperus rigens ssp. serrae (Bcklr.) T. M. Ped., Cyperus tacnensis var. weberbaueri (Kkth.) T. M. Ped. y Cyperus tacnensis var. tarijensis (Kkth.) T. M. Ped. Describe la variedad nueva Cyperus rigens ssp. rigens var. selmirae T. M. Ped. Considera que Cyperus laetus var. tenuissimus no es afn a ninguna de las especies discutidas y lo denomina Cyperus grossianus T. M. Ped. nomen et status nov.
23228361|We describe and illustrate Cyclanthera oligoechinata (Cucurbitaceae, Sicyeae) a new species from southern Brazil (Paran), northeastern Argentina (Misiones), and central and southern Paraguay (San Pedro). This new species resembles C. hystrix, C. eichleri and C. quinquelobata, but differs by its almost smooth fruits, and pistillate flowers and fruits on long, slender pedicels. A key to distinguish C. oligoechinata from the closest species is also included. Se describe e ilustra Cyclanthera oligoechinata (Cucurbitaceae, Sicyeae) una nueva especie del sur de Brasil (Paran), noreste de Argentina (Misiones), y centro y sur de Paraguay (San Pedro). Esta nueva especie se asemeja a C. hystrix, C. eichleri y C. quinquelobata, pero difiere por sus frutos lisos o casi lisos, y por sus flores pistiladas y frutos con pedicelos largos y grciles. Se incluye una clave para distinguir C. oligoechinata de sus taxones ms afines.
23228249|The family Apocynaceae s. str. (subfamilies Apocynoideae and Rauvolfioideae) is revised for Guatemala, Central America. Thirty one genera and 59 species are treated, including five introduced genera (Allamanda, Beaumontia, Catharanthus, Nerium, and Vinca). The most species-rich genus is Mandevilla with six taxa, followed by Echites, Prestonia, Stemmadenia, and Tabernaemontana (4 species), and Cascabela (3 species). No endemic species are reported. Keys, descriptions, common names and representative specimen citations are included, together with an appendix with the complete list of material examined. Lectotypes for Cameraria oblongifolia and Echites biflorus are designated. Se brinda un tratamiento de las Apocynaceae s. str. (subfamilias Apocynoideae y Rauvolfioideae) de Guatemala. Un total de 31 gneros y 59 especies son tratados, de los cuales cinco gneros (Allamanda, Beaumontia, Catharanthus, Nerium y Vinca) corresponden a plantas introducidas. Mandevilla es el gnero ms grande, con seis especies, seguido de Echites, Prestonia, Stemmadenia y Tabernaemontana con cuatro y Cascabela con tres. No se han encontrado especies endmicas. Se citan claves, descripciones, nombres comunes y especmenes representativos para cada departamento, incluyendo un apndice con el total de todos los especmenes examinados. Se lectotipifican Cameraria oblongifolia y Echites biflorus.
23222572|In this contribution, the first references of 3 taxa for the Argentina fern-flora are given: Cheilanthes cucullans Fe from Salta, Blechnum (Lomaridium) kunthianum C. Chr. and Pteris sericea (Fe) Christ from Misiones. Also the taxonomic and morphological references of Pellaea sagittata (Cav.) Link var. sagittata, mencioned in a recent ethnobotanic paper, are given. Each species is illustrated in detail and some palinological data, supporting the apogamy in the type variety of Pellaea sagittata, are briefly discussed.
90005712|A new species of
23226844|This is the first revision for the representatives of the genus Caiophora (Loasaceae) in Chile. The genus is widely distributed in the Andes from Argentina/Chile in the South to Central Ecuador in the North, and comprises approximately 60 species. In Chile only five species are present, Caiophora chuquitensis, C. cirsiifolia, C. coronata, C. deserticola sp. nov. and C. rosulata. Caiophora rosulata is here subdivided into two subspecies: western Andean C. rosulata subsp. rosulata (present in northern Chile and southern Peru), and eastern Andean C. rosulata subsp. taraxacoides, stat. and comb. nov. Furthermore C. superba syn. nov. and C. macrocarpa syn. nov. are placed into synonymy under C. chuquitensis, and C. rahmeri syn. nov. is synonymized to C. rosulata subsp. rosulata. These five species comprise the complete range of growth forms known for the genus, i.e., subshrubs, cushionforming herbs, acaulescent, rosulate herbs and vines. For all taxa a key and full morphological descriptions and synonymy are provided, including illustrations, notes on habitat, distribution, floral biology and chromosome numbers. Esta es la primera revisin del gnero Caiophora (Loasaceae) en Chile. El gnero comprende alrededor de 60 especies, y est ampliamente distribuido en los Andes, desde Argentina/Chile en el Sur, hasta el centro de Ecuador en el Norte. Se conocen solamente cinco especies de Chile: Caiophora chuquitensis, C. cirsiifolia, C. coronata, C. deserticola sp. nov. y C. rosulata. El material de Caiophora rosulata se divide entre dos subespecies, C. rosulata subsp. rosulata comb. nov., de los Andes Occidentales (presente en el norte de Chile y el sur de Per, y C. rosulata subsp. taraxacoides stat. y comb. nov., de los Andes Orientales. Los nombres C. superba syn. nov. y C. macrocarpa syn. nov. son sinonimizados bajo C. chuquitensis, y C. rahmeri syn. nov., sinonimizado bajo C. rosulata subsp. rosulata. Estas cinco especies comprenden el rango completo de hbitos conocido para el gnero: sufrtices, hierbas perennes en forma de cojines, hierbas rosuladas acaules, y hierbas trepadoras. Proporcionamos una clave, descripciones morfolgicas y la sinonimia completa para todos los taxones, incluyendo ilustraciones, notas sobre la distribucin, el hbitat, la biologa floral y nmeros cromosmicos.
23213902|The authors have studied the differential characters of three very near Sonthamerican species of the grass genus Stipa: S. brachychaeta Godr., S. caudata Trin. and S. bertrandii Phil. On the basis of morphological as well as anatomical characteristics, they succeed in establishing good differences, summed up in descriptions, illustrations and a key. The type material of all three species was examined.
23225159|Setaria pflanzii is a wild species native to northwestern Argentina, SE of Bolivia and NE of Paraguay, with a potential of forage production and good palatability. The objective of this work was to determine its chromosome number, meiotic chromosome behavior and reproductive system. Our results indicate that S. pflanzii would be an allotetraploid (2n=4x=36) with regular segregation and a mean of chromosome association of 0.21 I. 17.76 II and 0.02 IV per pollen mother cell. Pollen viability, seed production and embryological observations indicate that S. pflanzii is sexual, mainly autogamous species. Setaria pflanzii es una especie nativa del NO de Argentina, SE de Bolivia y NE de Paraguay, que se destaca por sus cualidades forrajeras. El objetivo de este trabajo fue determinar el nmero cromosmico, estudiar el comportamiento meitico y el sistema reproductivo. Los resultados obtenidos indican que S. pflanzii es una especie alotetraploide (2n=4x=36) con segregacin regular y un promedio de asociaciones cromosmicas de 0,21 I, 17,76 H y 0,02 IV por clula madre de polen. La viabilidad de los granos de polen, la produccin de cariopsis y observaciones embriolgicas, indican que es una especie con reproduccin sexual principalmente autgama.
23225106|Simira (Rondeletieae) is recorded for the first time for Argentina. A description of S. sampaioana and one illustration are included. El gnero Simira (Rondeletieae) representado por S. sampaioana, se registra por primera vez para la flora argentina. La especie se describe e ilustra.
23223247|Descriptions and illustrations of some Pezizales and Helotiales from the Nothofagus forest of Argentina are given. A new species is proposed: Hyalopeziza striata sp. nov. Lamprospora annulata Seav. is the first record for the southern hemisphere. First records for Argentina are: Galactinia praetervisa Bres., Helvella leucopus Pers., Plectania rhytidia (Berk. in Hook. f.) Nannf. & Korf in Korf, Velutarina rufo-olivacea (Alb. & Schwein. Fr.) Korf, Bisporella discedens (P. A. Karst.) Carpenter. Comments on the distribution and ecology of some species are given.
23215740|En el presente trabajo se reconocen para la Argentina siete especies. En la literatura haban sido citadas ocho especies y dos variedades del gnero Achyrocline, que una vez estudiadas quedaron reducidas a cuatro: A. alata, A. satureioides, A. citrina y A. flaccida. Adems se mencionan por primera vez para nuestro pas: A. tomentosa, A. hyperchlora y A. ramosissima. El trabajo se complementa con un breve estudio del grano de polen, ilustraciones de las siete especies descriptas y un mapa con la distribucin en la Argentina. In the present paper the author recognizes seven species. The eight species and two varieties of Achyrocline originally cited for Argentina were reduced to four after their study: A. alata, A. satureioides, A. citrina y A. flaccida. A. tomentosa, A. hyperchlora y A. ramosissima are mentioning for the first time for the country. This work also includes a short pollen analysis, the drawings of the seven described species and a map showing their distribution in Argentina.
23223891|A total of 81 uses of a veterinary nature were recorded for 61 native and exotic plant species belonging to 54 genera and 37 botanical families, among the peasants of the Argentine Semiarid Chaco. The scientific and vernacular names, parts employed, forms of preparation and administration, and specimens examined are listed for each of the taxa involved. Half the plant remedies referred to are used as vulneraries, oxitocics, purges, antidiarrhetic, and expectorants. Cows, horses, and dogs receive the greatest attention. Veterinary uses of plants show that these people's therapy involves different approaches to treatment: the ancient Hippocratic medicine, magical procedures and Christian religious practices. Se registraron un total de 81 usos de tipo veterinario para 61 especies nativas y exticas, correspondientes a 54 gneros y 37 familias botnicas, entre los campesinos del Chaco Semirido argentino. Los nombres cientficos y vernculos, las partes usadas, las formas de preparacin y administracin y el material examinado son incluidos en una lista para cada uno de los taxones consignados. La mitad de los remedios vegetales referidos se emplean como vulnerarios, oxitcicos, purgantes, antidiarreicos y expectorantes. Vacunos, caballos y perros reciben la mayor atencin. El uso de las plantas en su veterinaria tradicional evidencia una combinacin de diferentes tcnicas teraputicas: antigua medicina hipocrtica, procedimientos mgicos y prcticas religiosas cristianas.
23227140|Waltheria carmensarae, a homostylous species from northeastern Argentina, southeastern Paraguay, and central Venezuela, and W. procumbens, a distylous species from northeastern Paraguay, are newly described and illustrated. Both species share along with some other species of Waltheria sect. Waltheria and all of sect. Stegowaltheria an elongate-plumose stigma, adaxial petals with raised succulent midribs, petals adnate to the stamen tube for more than 0.8 mm in length, and a capsule with hardened endocarp only at the apex. Waltheria carmensarae resembles the distylous species W. preslii, endemic to coastal Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mexico, whereas W. procumbens appears to be close to W. albicans, primarily from Brazil where distylous, with scattered homostylous and distylous distributions in Paraguay, Venezuela, and Mexico, or exclusively homostylous in Argentina. Pollen morphology is first described for W. carmensarae and Kohler's description for W. prostrata is repeated for the new species W. procumbens. A regional key is included for all Argentinian and all Paraguayan species of Waltheria. Waltheria operculata (sect. Stegowaltheria) is newly reported for Paraguay and W. albicans (sect. Waltheria) first appears with specimens cited for Paraguay. Se describen e ilustran por primera vez Waltheria carmensarae, especie homostila del nordeste de Argentina, sureste de Paraguay y centro de Venezuela, y W. procumbens especie distila del nordeste de Paraguay. Ambas especies comparten los siguientes caracteres con algunas especies de la sect. Waltheria, y con todas las especies de la sect. Stegowaltheria: estigmas elongado-plumosos; lminas de los ptalos con nervios primarios proximalmente prominentes (succulentos) en el haz; ptalos adnatos al tubo estaminal por ms de 0,8 mm de long.; cpsulas con el endocarpo endurecido apicalmente. Waltheria carmensarae es afn a W. preslii, especie heterostila endmica del oeste de Mxico (Guerrero, Oaxaca), mientras que W. procumbens lo es a W. albicans, principalmente de Brasil, siendo all heterostila, mientras que en Venezuela, Paraguay y Mxico es homostila o heterostila, y en Argentina exclusivamente homostila. Se describe por primera vez la morfologa del polen de W. carmensarae. Se hace notar que la descripcin de la morfologa del polen de W. procumbens fue publicada previamente como W. prostrata. Se incluye una clave regional de las especies de Waltheria para Argentina y Paraguay. Waltheria operculata (sect. Stegowaltheria) es registrada por primera vez en Paraguay, y se citan por primera vez ejemplares de W. albicans (sect. Waltheria) de Paraguay.
23222967|Manothrix Miers was described with two species and pertaining to Apocynaceae. The generic name is lectotypified with Manothrix nodosa Miers and considered as a synonym of Mesechites Muell. Arg. (Apocynaceae). M. nodosa Miers is synonymized with Mesechites trifida (Jacq.) Muell. Arg. The remaining species, Manothrix valida Miers is a synonym of Hillia parasitica Jacq. (Rubiaceae).
23222542|Schaueria azaleaeflora (Acanthaceae), new record for Argentina. Schaueria azaleaeflora Rusby, a species from the low mountain forests of Bolivia, is recorded for the first time from northern Argentina. The species is described, illustrated and compared with its closest relatives. This is also the first valid record of the genus Schaueria from Argentina.
23215049|Two genera of brown algae (Phaeophyta), each one with one species, are added to the Algological Flora of Patagonia, Argentina. The first one, Feldmannia simplex (Crouan) Hamel, was found at Puerto Deseado (Provincia de Santa Cruz); the second one, Haloglossum compressum (Griff) Hamel, was collected in the Provinces of Chubut and Santa Cruz. Both are described morphologically, and results are given of their laboratory culture. Thirty tree generations were obtained from the swarmers, coming from plurilocular organs of Feldmannia simplex and they always gave rise to plants carrying the same king of reproductive organs Swarmers of H. compressum coming from unilocular organs, which are the only ones found in nature, were also cultivated. The gave rise to a protonema that developped into erect plants, which carried again unilocular sporangia. Plurilocular organs were never observed in this species. In both species succesive generations were always similar.
23218083|In this work three species of Adesmia and its synonymes are treated: Adesmia occulta, A. echinus and A. miraflorensis. Also a discussion and a key about A. occulta and its related, A. caespitosa and A. riojana are given.
23216515|A taxonomic revision of the species of Sisymbrium from Argentina was carried out. The genera Mostacillastrum and Chilocardamum segregated from Sisymbrium by O. E. Schulz, as well as Dimitria Ravenna, are here included in it. At present 34 species are recognized for Argentina, 7 of which have been introduced. The following new taxa are proposed: S. punense, S. gilliesii, S. mendocinum, S. catamarcense, S. tomentosum, S. tomentosum var. pauciovulatum, S. tucumanense var. rigidocarpum, while S. choiquense Romanczuk and S. longistylum Romanczuk, which have been published previously, have been added. S. dianthoides Phil., described from Chile and S. erysimoides Desf., of the Old World, are recorded for the first time from Argentina. A change of status, S. tucumanense (O. E. Schulz) stat. nov. is proposed and S. ragoneseanum O. E. Schulz (= Polypsecadium harmsianum [Muschl.] O. E. Schulz) is considered excluded from Sisymbrium. For all the species, descriptions, illustrations and data of their geographical distribution are given, followed by a key.
23216516|El presente trabajo comprende el estudio sistemtico de los gneros Calycorectes, Hexachlamys, Myrciaria, Paramyrciaria, Plinia y Siphoneugena, representantes de la subtribu Eugeniinae Berg, en la flora de la Argentina. En el mismo se ampla el rea de distribucin de Myrciaria tenella (DC.) Berg, citada hasta ahora slo para el NO de la Argentina. Se acepta Paramyrciaria delicatula (DC.) Kausel, en lugar de Myrciaria delicatula (DC.) Berg, por tener embrin con 2 cotiledones plano-convexos y el hipanto prolongado y circunciso. Se propone la nueva combinacin Plinia baporeti (Legrand) Rotman, para una especie caracterstica de nuestras selvas en galera y se acepta Plinia trunciflora (Berg) Kausel, en el verdadero sentido de su autor, para una especie coleccionada, hasta el momento, una sola vez en la Argentina. El trabajo se completa con la descripcin e ilustracin de todas las especies de Hexachlamys, Siphoneugena y Calycorectes de la Argentina. Como entidad de posicin taxonmica dudosa, queda Guapurium peruvianum Poir., coleccionada en varias oportunidades, cuya morfologa embrionaria es difcil de establecer, por presentar poliembriona, que no permite, hasta el momento, la interpretacin de la misma. This paper deals with the systematic study of the genera Calycorectes, Hexachlamys, Myrciaria, Paramyrciaria, Plinia and Siphoneugena, which represent the subtribe Eugeniinae Berg, in the Argentine flora. The paper also present an enlargement of the area of distribution of Myrciaria tenella (DC.) Berg, which up to now has only been mentioned in the NW of Argentina. Paramyrciaria delicatula (DC.) Kausel is accepted instead of Myrciaria delicatula (DC.) Berg, because this species has embryo with two plane-convex cotyledons and a circumcised, elongated hypanthium. The new combination Plinia baporeti (Legrand) Rotman, is proposed for a species caracteristic of galleria forests. The name Plinia trunciflora (Berg) Kausel has been accepted, in its author's true sense, for a species which up to now has only once been collected in Argentina. Descriptions and illustrations of every species of Hexachlamys, Siphoneugena and Calycorectes are given. Guapurium peruvianum Poir., remains as an entity of doubtful taxonomic position. It has been collected on many an opportunity, but its embryonic morphology is difficult to interprete because it shows polyembryos which, so far, have not allowed correct interpretation of this entity.
23213890|The author recognises the genus Macrochloris Korsch. (Algae-Chlorophyta), describes for the soils of Buenos Aires province (Argentine) the species M. dissecta Korsch. and gives a key for the 3 accepted species.
23227130|In this paper we analyze the altitudinal use of the environment in the traditional agricultural practices of an Andean rural community of Salta Province. Argentina. At present, families that used to move periodically among different settlements are gradually turning to be sedentary. This process has resulted in the weakening of the vertical use of the environment, the concentration of agricultural activities into a sole altitudinal level, the loss of some cultigens proper of abandoned areas and in the increase in the pressure of use in permanent locations. Even though ancestral agricultural practices are still in use in the community under study, changes are negatively influencing their preservation. Se analiza el uso altitudinal del ambiente en relacin a prcticas agrcolas tradicionales, en una comunidad rural de la provincia de Salta. Argentina. En el presente, las familias que solan trasladarse peridicamente entre diferentes puestos estn tornndose sedentarias paulatinamente. Este proceso est ocasionando cambios tales como la disminucin de la importancia del uso vertical del ambiente, la concentracin de las actividades agrcolas en un solo nivel altitudinal, la prdida de algunos cultgenos debido al abandono de las reas apropiadas para su produccin y el incremento de la presin de uso en las empleadas de forma permanente. Aunque las prcticas agrcolas ancestrales an se observan en la comunidad estudiada, estn ocurriendo cambios que influencian negativamente su preservacin.
23222522|Identity of Pseudostiffita with Moquinia (Compositae) and considerations on the tribal position of the taxon. The monotypic genus Moquinia DC. has been placed since its creation in the tribe Mutisieae. Such position has been questioned by some authors based on pollen morphology. A comparative study with allied tribes demonstrates that Moquinia shows a clear affinity with Pseudostifftia H. Robinson, regarded by its authors as being included in the tribe Vernonieae. From this study it becomes clear that Pseudostifftia is a synonym of Moquinia, but also that the position of the latter must change from Mutisieae to the Vernonieae, although representing an isolated element within such tribe, supporting thus, Robinson's opinion on the matter. Two species of Moquinia are recognized and differentiated and a new combination is established, Moquinia kingii (H. Robinson) Gamerro.
23228252|Lectotypes are designated for Apocynum acouci, Forsteronia benthamiana, F. myriantha, Laxoplumeria tessmannii, and Thyrsanthus corylifolius. A neotype is designated for Echites spicatus. Se seleccionan lectotipos para Apocynum acouci, Forsteronia benthamiana, F. myriantha, Laxoplumeria tessmannii y Thyrsanthus corylifolius. Se selecciona un neotipo para Echites spicatus.
23222976|This is the first contribution to the knowledge of the diatom flora of La Pampa province (Argentina). Five samples were analyzed, 127 taxa were identified, 13 of them are new records for Argentina.
23224220|Tragus is represented in Argentina by 4 taxa. A new species, Tragus andicola, is described and illustrated. A key, descriptions, synonymy, geographical distribution and some illustrations of the Argentinean species are also provided. El gnero Tragus est representado en la Argentina por 4 especies. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Tragus andicola, aportndose adems, descripciones, sinnimos, datos de distribucin geogrfica, algunas ilustraciones y una clave para diferenciar las especies presentes en la Argentina.
23218133|A new species of Dioscorea L. (Dioscoreaceae) from Bolivia. A new species from Bolivia, Dpto. Santa Cruz de la Sierra is described and illustrated: Dioscorea hunzikeri Xifreda (Dioscoreaceae, subg. Helmia, sect. Monadelpha). D. hunzikeri may be distinguished from D. toldosensis and D. cienagensis by the shape of the staminal columna and the level of insertion of the stamens.
23223245|Meiotic and/or mitotic chromosome numbers were determined and observations on meiotic behavior were made in 14 accessions belonging to 14 especies concerning 8 genera distributed in 4 tribes of the Asteraceae. Five species are investigated chromosomally for the first time. These are as follows, tribe Mutisieae: Brachyclados cespitosus (Phil.) Speg. (n = 23), Nassauvia pygmaea (Cass.) Hooker (n = 22); tribe Cichorieae: Hypochoeris acaulis (Remy) Britton (n = 4, 2n = 8), Hieracium glaucifolium Poepp. ex Froelich in DC. (2n = 18) and Hieracium aff. palezieuxii Zahn (2n = 18). Different chromosome number to those previously reported in the literature were found for Hypochoeris chondrilloides (A. Gray) Cabrera (n = 8), Baccharis ulicina Hook. Arn. (2n = 18+3B), Conyza aff. bonariensis (L.) Cronquist (2n = 18). The karyotypes of Brachyclados lycioides Don, Hypochoeris acaulis (Remy) Britton, Hieracium aff. palezieuxii Zahn and Senecio chilensis Less. are described for the first time. Meanwhile, the karyotypes of Hypochoeris microcephala (Sch. Bip.) Cabrera var. albiflora (Kuntze) Cabrera, H. chillensis (Kunth) Hieron. and H. megapotamica Cabrera showed to be slightly different with those described in previous publications. The significance of some of the results in relation to taxonomical and evolutionary problems is discussed.
23223222|Thirty two samples of honeys from the lower valley of the Chubut River were analyzed. Most samples contained less than 2000 grains/g. Honeys were classified as Tamarix gallica (14 samples), Eucalyptus type (1 sample), Medicago sativa (1 sample) and mixed honey (16 samples). Pollen types were identified using a collection of reference pollen slides. Both the pollen from honeys and the pollen from de reference material were subjected to acetolysis. The most important source of nectar in the lower valley of Chubut River honeys is Tamarix gallica, but the importance of Medicago sativa, in spite of its low intra-sample frequence, is also discussed. Asteraceae and Fabaceae are the best represented families followed by Brassicaceae. Pollen of the native vegetation was well represented and allowed to differentiate these honeys from others in Argentina.
23226717|Nine families, 29 genera and 52 species and infraespecific taxa of Pteridophytes are reported for the nature reserve "Cu Pir". The most represented genus is Asplenium with eight species, two of them being new records for the Argentinean flora. Between one to three species were recorded for the remaining genera. These plants mainly grow deep into the forest, or along forest trails and stream banks. Keys to all groups and entities, literature, distribution and ecology references are included. En la Reserva "Cu Pir" se registraron un total de 9 familias, 29 gneros y 52 especies y taxones infraespecficos. El gnero mejor representado es Asplenium con 8 especies, dos de ellas novedades para la flora argentina. El resto de los gneros tienen 1-3 especies. Estas plantas se hallan preferentemente en el interior de la selva y en el borde de los caminos y arroyos. Se presentan claves dicotmicas para la determinacin de los grupos y entidades, como as tambin referencias bibliogrficas, distribucionales y ecolgicas.
23223256|Poa anfamensis sp. nov. is described and illustrated based on material selected by Hackel, when he proposed "ad interim" P. micranthera Hack.
23218909|Karyological studies in Compositae V. Chromosome numbers were determined and observations on the meiotic behavior were made in 60 taxa belonging to 33 genera of eight tribes of the Compositae. The genera Chersodoma Philippi and Chilliotrichiopsis Cabrera and twenty seven species and varieties are investigated cytologically for the first time. These are as follows: Eupatorium amplum Benth. (41 II), E. argentinum Ariza Espinar (20 II), E. serratum Sprengel (10 II), E. tweedianum H. et A. (10 II), Baccharis notosergila Griseb. (9 II), B. petiolata DC. (ca. 9 II), B. leptophylla DC (9 II), B. rufescens Sprengel var. ventanicola Cabrera (9 II), Chilliotrichiopsis keideli Cabrera (2n = 54), Conyza notobellidiastrum Griseb. (9 II), C. burkartii Zardini (18 II), Bidens andicola Kunth var. decomposita Kuntze (12 II), Viguiera weberbaueri S. F. Blake (17 II), Helenium alternifolium (Sprengel) Cabrera (34 II), Chersodoma argentina Cabrera (2n = 20), Gynoxis fuliginosa (Kunth) Cass. (ca. 40 II), Senecio cremeiflorus Mattf. (20 II), S. donianus Hook. et Arn. (ca. 40 II), S. leptolobus DC (20 II), S. madagascariensis Poiret (20 II), S. pulcher Hook. et Arn (40 II), S. saltensis Hook. et Arn (20 II), S. scorzonerifolius Meyer et Walp. (40 II), S. subumbellatus Phil. (20 II), S. volkmanni Phil. (40 II), Leuceria landbeckii (Phil.) Reiche (20 II), Leuceria scrobiculata Don, (20 II), Mutisia linearifolia Cav. (23 II). Different chromosome numbers to those reported previously in the literature were found for Eupatorium arnottianum Griseb. (11 II + 1 -2B), Gutierrezia gilliesii Griseb. (16 II), Polymnia pyramidalis Triana (ca. 29 II),Senecio humillimus Schultz Bip. (ca. 40 II) and Mutisia retrorsa Cav. (24 II). The significance of some of the results in relation to taxonomical and evolutionary problems is discussed.
23226691|The goal of this research was to reconstruct the vegetational and climatic changes that took place during the late Pleisocene and Holocene in southwestern Syria. This reconstruction was based on palynological data obtained from the analysis of 27 sediments and surface samples (with a total thickness of 4.55 m) collected from Al-Hijaneh Lake basin (late Pleistocene) and from Al-Aouaj River valley (Holocene). Three pollen zones were established. The oldest one (zone A) corresponds to the late Pleistocene lacustrine deposits of Lake Al-Hijaneh. Zones B and C were defined in the Holocene fluvial-lacustrine deposits of the Al-Aouaj River valley. These three pollen assemblage zones are correlated to synchronic and similar C14 dated pollen zones from Syria, Turkey, Iran and Greece. This allows a more definite age determination for the deposits of this study. The region's past climates and vegetation are discussed. El objetivo de esta investigacin fue reconstruir la vegetacin, el clima y los cambios que han tenido lugar durante el Pleistoceno tardo y el Holoceno, en el suroeste de Siria. Esta reconstruccin se bas en datos palinolgicos obtenidos del anlisis de 27 sedimentos y muestras de superficie (con un espesor total de 4,55 m) coleccionadas durante el verano de 1998 en el lago Al-Hijaneh (Pleistoceno tardo) y en el valle del rio Al-Aouaj (Holoceno), y analizadas en 1999. Se establecieron tres zonas de alemacenamiento de polen. La ms antigua (zona A) corresponde al Pleistoceno tardo en los depsitos lacustres del lago Al-Hijaneh. Las zonas B y C quedaron definidas en los depsitos lacustres del Holoceno del valle del rio Al-Aouaj. Las tres zonas polnicas son correlativas con zonas de polen similar en territorios del Mediterrneo del este. Los climas presentes y pasados de la regin, y su vegetacin son tema de discusin.
23230187|Two new varieties, Annulohypoxylon moriforme var. macrosporum and Hypoxylon investiens var. magnisporum are proposed; Annulohypoxylon nitens, Hypoxylon crocopeplum, H. subrutilum and H. rubiginosum var. microsporum are described as new records from Argentina. A dichotomous key to hypoxyloid taxa so far known from Argentina is presented. Se proponen dos nuevas variedades: Annulohypoxylon moriforme var. macrosporum e Hypoxylon investiens var. magnisporum; se citan por primera vez para la Argentina los siguientes taxones: Annulohypoxylon nitens, Hypoxylon crocopeplum, H. subrutilum e H. rubiginosum var. microsporum. Se presenta una clave dicotmica de las especies hipoxiloides halladas hasta ahora en la Argentina.
23230191|Based on the ongoing revision of the genus Gavilea (Orchidaceae), the following synonyms are proposed: Gavilea auriculata (under G. glandulifera), Asarca verrucosa (under G. longibracteata), A. chrysostachya (under G. odoratissima), A. glandulifera var. illapelina (under G. platyantha) and A. feuilleana (under G. venosa). Also, lectotypes for Asarca spectabilis, A. glandulifera var. illapelina, A. appendiculata and A. platyantha, and a neotype for A. ventaneae are designated. The identity of taxonomically confusing species is discussed. En este trabajo, enmarcado en la revisin taxonmica del gnero Gavilea (Orchidaceae), se proponen los siguientes sinnimos: Gavilea auriculata (bajo G. glandulifera), Asarca verrucosa (bajo G. longibracteata), A. chrysostachya (bajo G. odoratissima), A. glandulifera var. illapelina (bajo G. platyantha) y A. feuilleana (bajo G. venosa). Se designan tambin lectotipos para los siguientes taxones: Asarca spectabilis, A. glandulifera var. illapelina, A. appendiculata y A. platyantha; y un neotipo para A. ventaneae. Se aclara la identidad de especies taxonmicamente conflictivas.
23223004|Taxonomic differences between the genera Diplachne and Leptochloa are here sumarized. A key is included in order to reconize both genera in the area under study. The taxonomic treatment includes five species of Diplachne and five species and one variety of Leptochloa and a key for identification. Synonyms, geographic distribution, studied material and illustrations are included. Excluded species are listed at the end of the treatment.
23223190|The anther osmophores of Cyphomandra diploconos Sendtner and C. hatwegii (Miers) Dunal revealed anatomical features related to the mode of secretion when studied with SEM and thin sections for OM. In both species a blister-like subcuticular space is formed on the cell summit. Volatiles are apparently released by spontaneous (and active?) rupture of the cuticle. An account on the osmophore features of Cyphomandra is presented.
23218942|A new species of Verbena Secc. Junellia (Verbenaceae). Verbena arequipense Botta from Per is described and illustrated. The main characters for delimiting this new species are: the polygonal outline of the stem in transection, the pubescence and teeth of the calix, the size of the corolla and the morphology of the mericarps.
23218069|Five new species of Orchidaceae for the argentine flora, belonging to five different genera, known up to now only for tropical regions of Central and Southamerica, are described and illustrated: Barbosella porschii (Krnzl.) Schlechter, Epistephium sclerophyllum Lindley, Phloeophila similis (Schlecht.) Garay, Sanderella discolor Cogniaux y Triphora hassleriana (Cogn.) Schlechter.
23217353|Polygala lancifolia (Polygalaceae) a new record for the Argentine flora. Polygala lancifolia A. St. Hil. et Moq. is described and illustrated; a key to distinguish it from the related species P. darwiniana A. W. Bennet and P. argentinensis Chodat is given.
23223865|The genus Bothriochloa Kuntze, which belongs to subfamily Panicoideae, tribe Andropogoneae, is mainly distributed in tropical and subtropical regions, with nearly 35 species throughout the world. Twenty six taxa of the genus were treated in the present paper, including 22 species, 2 subspecies and a variety. Within each taxa, information is given about vernacular names, iconography, distribution and ecology, chromosome numbers, a list of representative material and illustrations. A key for the identification of taxa is also provided. El gnero Bothriochloa Kuntze, pertenece a la subfamilia Panicoideae, tribu Andropogoneae; est ampliamente distribuido en las regiones tropicales y subtropicales, comprendiendo alrededor de 35 especies a nivel mundial. En la presente contribucin se tratan 25 taxones de Amrica, que incluyen 22 especies, 2 subespecies y 1 variedad. Cada taxon se describe e ilustra, se brindan datos acerca de los nombres vernculos, iconografa, distribucin geogrfica y ecologa, nmeros cromosmicos y se cita material representativo. Se provee una clave para la identificacin de los taxones.
23222992|Two species of Mallomonas: M. heterospina Lund and M. americana Drrschmidt were recorded for first time from Argentina, Tierra del Fuego. Transitional features between the two species in scale ornamentation and bristle are discussed. On that bases the abolishment of the series Hamatae and Heterospinae is proposed.
23612309|Lactifluus aurantiorugosus is proposed as a new species from southern Brazil. It is characterized by the small-sized basidiomata, pileus orange, glabrous and wrinkled when fresh, distant lamellae, ellipsoid and verrucose basidiospores with warts up to 0.7 m, interconnected with incomplete reticules, a trichopalisade as pileipellis-structure, and the context of lamella and pileus with abundant sphaerocysts. Se propone a Lactifluus aurantiorugosus como una nueva especie del sur de Brasil. Se caracteriza por basidiomas de pequeo tamao, con un pleo de color naranja, glabro y arrugado cuando fresco, laminillas distantes, basidiosporas elipsoides, verrugosas, con verrugas hasta de 0,7 m, interconectadas con retculos incompletos; pileipellis formada por una estructura en tricopalisada y el contexto de las laminillas y del pleo con abundantes esferocistos.
23215050|A new species of the genus Desmarestia (Algae-Phaeophyta), D. patagonica Asensi, is described from the Argentine Patagonian coasts in the provinces of Chubut and Santa Cruz. It is a leaf-like species near to D. sivertsenii Baard, from which it differs by several characters, among them, the general shape of the thallus, the system of veins, the bilobate apex etc.
23230193|Recent molecular studies suggest that Senecio otites belonging to Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Otopteri should be removed from Senecio so that this large and taxonomically complicated genus would be monophyletic. In order to evaluate the taxonomic position of Senecio otites and the placement of series Otopteri, 13 species belonging to Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Otopteri, including S. otites, were examined for micro-morphological characters of the style branches (stigmatic surface, style-arm apices) and anthers (filament collar, anther bases, anther appendages). Three states of these micromorphological characters were present in nearly all species of Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Otopteri: 1) the style-arms are apically convex or subconvex, papillate, and surrounded by a crown of hairs of different lengths; 2) the stigmatic surfaces have a cleft configuration (banded to cleft in S. attenuatus); and 3) the anthers are auriculate. These results provide new morphological support for the placement of Senecio otites in Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Otopteri and the future removal of that series from Senecio proper. Estudios moleculares recientes sugieren que Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Otopteri debera ser removido de Senecio para que este gnero extenso y taxonmicamente complicado sea monofiltico. Con el propsito de evaluar la posicin taxonmica de Senecio otites y la ubicacin de la serie Otopteri, 13 especies, incluyendo S. otites, fueron examinadas en cuanto a los caracteres micromorfolgicos de las ramas estigmticas (superficie estigmtica, pice de las ramas estigmticas) y de las anteras (collar del filamento, base de las anteras, apndice de las anteras). Tres estados de estos caracteres micromorfolgicos estn presentes en todas las especies estudiadas de Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Otopteri: 1) ramas estilares apicalmente convexas o subconvexas, papilosas, rodeadas por una corona de pelos de distinta longitud; 2) superficies estigmticas de configuracin hendida (bandeada a hendida en S. attenuatus); y 3) anteras auriculadas. Estos resultados proveen apoyo morfolgico nuevo para la ubicacin de Senecio otites en Senecio sect. Senecio ser. Otopteri y la futura remocin de esta serie de Senecio L.
23215559|Se ha efectuado un estudio de las simientes de las especies del gnero Chenopodium de la flora argentina, en total 27, examinndose en cada caso la morfologa del cliz fructfero, del fruto y de la semilla. Sobre la base de estos caracteres fue posible confeccionar una clave dicotmica que permite identificar las especies estudiadas. En este estudio, se encontraron interesantes correlaciones, por ejemplo, cliz glabro y pericarpio pubescente y nuevos caracteres que facilitaron la separacin de especies afines, como Ch. burkartii de Ch. retusum y Ch. carinatum de Ch. pumilio. La totalidad de las especies han sido descriptas e ilustradas. The morphology of the fructiferous calyx, the fruit and the seeds of twenty seven species of genus Chenopodium of Argenine flora has been studied in detail. On the basis of those characters a dichotomic key was made for the identification of the different species. It was found in this morphological analysis that there are interesting correlations, for instance, calyx without hairs and hairy pericarp. There are also new characters which facilitate the separation of species that are similar, such as Ch. buskartii of Ch. retusum and Ch. carinatum of Ch. pumilio. All the species are described and illustrated.
23212183|The purpose pursued in the present work is the determining of the following facts: a) How many species, botanical varieties and forms of perennial plants (phanerophytes, chamaephytes and hemicrytophytes) are grown, withouth protection, around the city of Buenos Aires in a fixed extent of 70 kilometers. b) Which are the dates of defoliation, flowering and maturity of fruits of these plants in the place in question, which is a plain field. The analized observations correspond only to one year, 1940; consequently, the conclusions presented are of provisional character and can be partially modified, according the data to be obtained in the following years. For the same reason, the announced conclusions are referred to whole facts. In this way, possible errors and omissions comitted diminish to an acceptable minimun. The analysis of the data has lead to the following results: 1  The perennial plants (phanerophytes, chamaephytes and hemicrytophytes) grown in the region are very numerous, they probably include about 450 species and are assembled in not less than 104 families of the Engler system. Of these, 103 are Phanerogams and one a Pteridophyte. Within the total taken into account, specimens grown as rarities or plants found in collections are excluded.
23215605|Das Untersuchngsgebiet betrifft den andinen Teil der Provinz Jujuy und hat den Charakter einer Halbwste mit stark aridem und kontinentalem Klima. Kennzeichnend sind Sommerregen, Winterdrre, intensive Strahlung, weite tgliche Temperaturamplituden und starke Nachtfrste whrend des ganzen Jahres. Die Vegetation besteht aus offenen, niedrigen Gras- und Strauchsteppen. Als Polsterpflanzen im weitesten Sinne wurden etwa 30 Arten angesprochen, die zu 18 Gattungen und 14 Familien gehren. Entsprechend ihrer usseren Form, ihrer inneren Konsistenz, der Art der Verzweigung der Zusammensetzung des Wurzelwerkes wurden folgende Gruppen unterschieden: Halbkugelfrmige Vollpolster (Tephrocactus div. spec., Salicornia pulvinata, Belloa argentea, Abromeitiella lorentziana, A. brevifolia), flachwachsende Polster, untergliedert in kompakte Flachpolster (Azorella compacta, Anthobryum triandrum, Junellia pygmaea, J. minima, Oxalis cf. exigua), dem Boden anliegende, starr verzweigte Spalierpolster (Adesmia schickendanzii, A. occulta), dem Boden anliegende, biegsam verzweigte Kriechpolster (Baccharis alpina, Senecio humillimus, Werneria aretioides) und locker verzweigte Flachpolster (Pycnophyllum molle, P. cf. tetrastichum, Werneria pseudodigitata, W. poposa) sowie Resenpolster mit dicht senkrecht aneinander gepressten Sprossachsen (Oxychloe andina, Distichia muscoides, Scirpus hieronymi) oder horizontal sich ausbreitenden Rhizomen (Senecio algens, Werneria pygmaea, Plantago tubulosa, Caltha spec.). Immergrne Arten mit Pfahlwurzeln herrschen vor. Polsterpflanzen, die sich aus Rhizomen mit Adventivwurzeln aufbauen, finden sich vorwiegend an nassen meist moorigen Standorten. Polsterpflanzen treten in allen Hhenstufen des Untersuchungsgebietes auf, sind aber in grsserer Hufigkeit und Vielfalt in der hochandinen Stufe (4100-5200 m) als in der Puna oder Prpuna anzutreffen. Jene Hhenstufe ist innerhalb der andinen Halbwsten die relativ feuchteste und klteste, obwohl sie keineswegs immer die tiefsten Minimaltemperaturen aufweist. Die Polsterpflanzen sind auf flachgrndig-steinigen Bden hufiger als auf tiefgrndig-sandigen, weil sie hier von wchsigeren Horstgrsern verdrngt werden.
23225123|The purpose of this work was to analyze pollen deposition in an agroecosystem during the spring-summer period and its relationship with vegetation structure in a great detail scale. The study was carried out in the Station of the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologa Agropecuaria (INTA), Balcarce, Buenos Aires Province. Vegetation censuses were carried out in three habitat types of this Pampean agriculture landscape: natural vegetation, park area and corn field. Aeropalynological samples were taken at the corners of the corn field. Plant taxa present in the site were characterized according to different attributes (richness, composition, life form and dispersal type). Taxa present in the corn field were compared with those obtained from the pollen spectrum. The three habitat types differred basically in their life form and composition. 54.16% of the identified taxa in vegetation of the corn field was present in the pollen record. In both vegetation and pollen record, zoophylous types and terophyte forms of life were dominant. The habitat types showed a low qualitative and quantitative similarity at a taxonomic analogies level based on the identified pollen types. As a result of this, the landscape showed a high homogeneity. However, constance analysis of taxa was powerful enough to discriminate the origin of deposited pollen (site, local and regional). En el presente trabajo se analiz el depsito polnico en un agroecosistema durante el desarrollo de los cultivos primavero-estivales y su relacin con la estructura de la vegetacin en una escala de gran detalle. Este estudio se realiz en la Estacin Regional INTA-Balcarce (provincia de Buenos Aires), donde se delimitaron tres tipos de ambientes: natural, parquizado y agroproductivo. En cada uno de ellos se realizaron censos de vegetacin con el objetivo de identificar las fuentes polnicas y, simultnemente, se llev a cabo un muestreo aeropalinolgico en las esquinas del ambiente agroproductivo. Los taxones presentes en la localidad fueron caracterizados a travs de distintos atributos (riqueza, composicin, formas de vida y modo de dispersin). Slo los taxones del ambiente agroproductivo fueron comparados con el registro polnico. Los tres ambientes difirieron bsicamente en su forma de vida y composicin. Slo el 54,16% de los taxones identificados en la vegetacin del ambiente agroproductivo estuvieron presentes en el registro polnico. Tanto en la vegetacin como en registro polnico dominaron los taxones de tipo zofilos y las formas de vida terfitas. A pesar de la alta homogeneidad del paisaje, dado por la baja similitud cualitativa y cuantitativa entre los ambientes en el nivel de las analogas taxonmicas establecidas en base a los tipos polnicos identificados, el anlisis de la constancia de los taxones en la localidad permiti discriminar el probable origen del polen depositado en tres categoras (sitio, local y regional).
41825715|Parmotrema dilatatum and Parmotrema gardneri are recorded for the first time for Argentina and Paraguay. Both species are described and illustrated, and a map with their distribution in South America is included. A key to differentiate sorediate and sorediate-pustulate species of Parmotrema with protocetraric acid is also presented. Parmotrema dilatatum y Parmotrema gardneri se registran por primera vez para Argentina y Paraguay. Se describen e ilustran ambas especies y se incluye un mapa de su distribucin en Sudamrica. Se presenta una clave para diferenciar las especies sorediadas y sorediado-pustuladas de Parmotrema con cido protocetrrico.
23222952|Various aspects of the reproductive biology of the perennial hermaphrodite Colletia paradoxa were studied by combining data over several years from both wild and garden-grown individuals. Flowering extends from summer end to mid winter, with a peak in autumn. The white, entomophilous flowers are adichogamous and last 5-14 days, but pollen transfer takes place only on days 1-3. A mild, vanillin-like odour along with nectar and pollen attracts over 20 insect species, of which 5 are probable pollinators. These are mainly Diptera, but also include the domestic honeybee. Reproduction in C. paradoxa is exclusively sexual and xenogamous, with pollen transfer depending solely on insect vectors. Although flower morphology and phenology do not prevent self-pollination, and geitonogamy can easily take place, autogamy was not detected. Hence, some self-incompatibility mechanism is operative in this species. Only 25% of the flowers initiated fruits, and just 6.1% from the flowers fully developed capsules. Fruit initiation was apparently pollen-limited at the flower level. Higher rates of fruit initiation and fruit ripening occurred late in the flowering period. Many seedless fruits completed development. The seed/ovule ratio in fruits bearing viable seeds was 42.7%. Predispersal (maternal) reproductive success (percent ovules becoming viable seeds) was 2.6%. For mature individuals this corresponded to over 17000 viable seeds per year.
23225103|Eleven species of Helotiaceae (Helotiales) collected in the Regions X and XI Chile are mentioned here. Amidst them, Hymenoscyphus leucopus var. microspora var. nov. is described, and Cyathicula fuegiana. Cyathicula chlorosplenioides, Hymenoscyphus nubilipes, Pezoloma iodocyanescens and Phaeohelotium recurvum are new records for Chile. Esta es la primera contribucin donde se registran once especies de Helotiaceae (Helotiales) coleccionadas en la X Regin y XI Regin de Chile. Se describe una nueva variedad, Hymenoscyphus leucopus var. microspora, y se citan por primera vez para Chile: Cyathicula fuegiana, Cyathicula chlorosplenioides, Hymenoscyphus nubilipes, Pezoloma iodocyanescens y Phaeohelotium recurvum.
23218938|A new species of Vernonia (Compositae) from Misiones, Argentina. Vernonia teyucuarensis nov. sp. is described and illustrated. It belongs to Section Lepidaploa, Subsection Remotiflora and is related to V. glabrata, but with very different leaves.
23223912|The genus Puccinellia Parl. is represented in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, and Uruguay by 10 species. A key to recognize all species that inhabit in this area is given, together with description of the species, synonymy, iconography, geographical distribution and ecological observations. A new name, Puccinellia parodii Nicora, is proposed, and some remarks about Puccinellia atacamensis (Parodi) Soreng are included. El gnero Puccinellia Parl. est representado en Argentina, Bolivia, Chile y Uruguay por 10 especies. En este trabajo se da una clave para el reconocimiento de las especies, as como la descripcin de las mismas, sinnimos, iconografa, distribucin geogrfica y observaciones ecolgicas. Se propone un nuevo nombre, Puccinellia parodii Nicora y se hacen observaciones sobre Puccinellia atacamensis (Parodi) Soreng.
23222997|Oedocladium carolinianum, a species previously reported for North America and Japan, was collected from a wet soil in the vecinity of San Pedro (Buenos Aires province, Argentina). The sexual stages in unialgal cultures showed two different types of oogonial spores morphology: 1. the characteristic oospores of the species, with angulose mesospore, and 2. spores resembling oospores of O. protonema Stahl, the type species of the genus. The possible parthenogenetic origin of the second type of spores and the validity of Stahl' s observations are discussed. Moreover, the dwarf male structure is interpreted in a different way than the one by Beaney & Hoffman.
23215561|A preliminary monograph for the Fuegine Cryptogamical Flora (Argentina). Bryophyta-Ptychomniaceae. This paper describes the genera and especies of the family Ptychomniaceae. They are almost exclusively found in the Southern Hemisphere, specially in the Subantartic Forests in Argentina and Chile. Nine species and two varieties are treated in three genera. Cladomniopsis, Glyptothecium and Ptychomnium, this last with seven species, P. aciculare, P. cygnisetum, P. densifolium, P. falcatulum, P. horridum, P. subaciculare, P. ptychocarpum and its two varieties. The first two genera are monospecific. A morphological study is made which illustrates the most interesting aspects of the studied species. Basionyms, synonyms, habitat and geographical distribution (local and worldwide), are indicated.
23217330|Contribution to the foliar anatomy of the genus Axonopus (Poaceae). The anatomy of the leaves of species of Axonopus P. Beauv., on the basis of transverse sections of the lamina, is reported. These species are: A. leptostachyus (Fluegge) Hitchc., A. fissifolius (Raddi) Kuhlm., A. siccus (Nees) Kuhlm., A. scoparius (Fluegge) Kuhlm., A. laxiflorus (Trin.) Chase and A. pressus (Nees) Parodi. They belong to 5 different infrageneric taxa and exhibit particular features which allow the recognition of 6 types of anatomical structures. Furthermore, some speculations are made on the mechanism of leaf-folding in the species considered.
23225162|Olpidiopsis varians and O. vexans were collected from two aquatic environments of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Both species are reported for the first time for Argentina being the southernmost records of these species in the Western Hemisphere. The first species is parasitic on Achlya proliferoides and the second species is parasitic on Saprolegnia sp. Olpidiopsis varians y O. vexans fueron encontrados en dos ambientes acuticos de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Ambas especies son citadas por primera vez para la Argentina, y constituyen los hallazgos ms australes de dichas especies para el hemisferio occidental. La primera especie fue hallada parasitando hifas de Achlya proliferoides y la segunda, en hifas de Saprolegnia sp.
23215666|In 1917, C. M. Hicken described a new monotypical genus of Araceae, Felipponia, as well as a new tribe, Felipponieae. Unfortunately, the name Felipponea had already been used in 1912 by Brotherus for a genus of mosses. Thus Hicken, having recognized this in 1928, created a new name, Felipponiella, for his later homonym of 1917. After a recent study of the type material, kindly sent on loan from the Instituto de Botnica "Darwinion", San Isidro, I came to the conclusion that Felipponia (= Felipponiella) uruguaya Hicken belongs to the earlier described and hitherto monotypical genus Mangonia Schott. The new combination Mangonia uruguaya (Hicken) Bogner is given accordingly in the present paper and the tribe Felipponieae Hicken reduced to the synonymy of the Asterotigmateae Schott emend. Engl. A full description of Mangonia uruguaya (Hicken) Bogner and a key of the genus Mangonia Schott are provided.
23212165|El gnero de Orqudeas Schomburgkia Lindley, 1838, es examinado por el autor respecto a su validez; un anlisis de las diferencias conocidas con el vecino gnero Laelia revela que son insuficientes, y en consecuencia pasa Schomburgkia a nueva seccin de Laelia. Este cambio de posicin obliga al autor a hacer varias combinaciones nuevas, a saber: Laelia gloriosa (Reichenb. f.), L. marginata (Lindl.), L. Lyonsii (Lindl.), L. undulata (Lindl.), L. splendida (Schltr.), L. Humboldtii (Reichb. f.), L. Thomsoniana (Reichb. f.) y L. tibicinis (Batem.) Williams. Todas estas especies son centroamericanas, de Mxico, Antillas o Norte de Sudamrica.  A. B.
23213812|The author adds several species of Cucurbitaceae to the cultivated and indigenous flora of Argentina, describing their fruits and seeds and explaining their culinary uses. Cucurbita mixta Pangalo, "calabaza", is cultivated in Santiago del Estero; Citrullus colocynthoides Pangalo, the "sandiyeja", is cultivated in San Luis Province. Cucumis anguria A. DC, "pepino cimarrn", was found in the wild in Villa Mercedes, San Luis, for the first time in Argentina; it is the spontaneous variety with small, echinulate fruits of 28  22 mm. Cucurbita andreana Naudin "zapallo amargo", well known wild species of central Argentina, has been found not to be always of bitter, colocynthin-rich fruits, but in Pergamino, Prov. Buenos Aires, a biotype with "sweet" (non bitter) fruits was discovered, which is edible. Cucurbita ficifolia Bouch, the "alcayota", cultivated for marmalade, has sometimes creamy colored fruits. According to the author, Citrullus vulgaris Schrad. var. citroides Bailey, the "Cidra Cayota", must be transferred to: C. colocynthoides Pangalo var. citroides (Bailey), nov. comb.
23222961|During the study of pollen development in Mimosa balansae Mich., it was posibly to detect a persisting primary wall of the androspore mother cells. The original primary wall, contrary to earlier reports for other species, persists around the androspore mother cells until the tetrad stage. It dissolved later than the callose. It may act as an added barrier together with callose.
23215742|Two species of Ephedra, E. breana Philippi and E. ochreata Miers are studied with Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). The materials were mounted on aluminium tape. Then they were coated with carbon and gold palladium in a vacuum evaporator. They were examined at an accelerating voltage of 15 KW. The characters observed were epidermal ones and some fibers.
23228359|The Poa resinulosa complex includes a group of disjunct but morphologically similar species: P. calchaquiensis, P. pedersenii, and P. resinulosa. To evaluate and analyze the species of the Poa resinulosa complex and related species, we measured 40 morphological and anatomical characters in specimens of Poa calchaquiensis, P. lanigera, P. pilcomayensis, and P. resinulosa. This data set was analysed together with a previous matrix of Poa section Dioicopoa (Giussani, 2000), also including P. nubensis, a new species similar to P. calchaquiensis. By means of the principal components analysis and statistical tests, the species of the P. resinulosa complex were circumscribed. Poa resinulosa is described as a new variety of P. ligularis, distinguished by its shorter ligule, shorter leaves and culms, broader blades and minor stomata. A key for the identification of Poa ligularis var. resinulosa and related taxa is presented together with a map representing the geographical distribution of both varieties of P. ligularis. El complejo Poa resinulosa incluye un grupo de especies conformado por P. calchaquiensis, P. pedersenii y P. resinulosa, de difcil delimitacin debido a que las entidades son afines en cuanto a su morfologa, aunque presentan distribucin disyunta. Para evaluar y analizar a las especies del complejo Poa resinulosa y especies afnes al mismo complejo, se midieron 40 caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos en ejemplares de Poa calchaquiensis, P. lanigera, P. pilcomayensis y P. resinulosa. Esos datos se incorporaron a la matriz del conjunto de especies de Poa seccin Dioicopoa confeccionada por Giussani (2000), incluyendo tambin a P. nubensis una nueva especie afn a P. calchaquiensis. Mediante el anlisis de componentes principales y pruebas estadsticas, se circunscribi a las especies del complejo Poa resinulosa. Se describi a P. resinulosa como una variedad de P. ligularis, de la que se diferencia por poseer lgula corta, hojas y caas de menor longitud, menor ancho de la lmina y estomas de menor tamao. Se presenta una clave para la identificacin de Poa ligularis var. resinulosa y taxones afines, y un mapa con la distribucin geogrfica de ambas variedades de P. ligularis.
41825704|Sloanea lasiocoma (Elaeocarpaceae) is recorded for the first time for the Argentinean flora in the province of Misiones, and it is the first record of Eleocarpaceae in northeastern Argentina. The species is described and illustrated and ecological observations are given. A key to distinguish Sloanea from the other three genera of Elaeocarpaceae present in Argentina is included. Sloanea lasiocoma (Elaeocarpaceae) se cita por primera vez para la flora argentina en la provincia de Misiones y es el primer registro de Eleocarpaceae en el nordeste argentino. Se describe e ilustra la especie y se brindan observaciones ecolgicas. Se incluye una clave para distinguir a Sloanea de los otros tres gneros de la familia Elaeocarpaceae presentes en la Argentina.
23223198|Twenty one samples of honey from the northeast of La Pampa province were analized using the techniques proposed by Louveaux et al. (1978). Thirty four types were identified. Eight samples have a mixed floral origin and 13 were monofloral from Prosopis sp. (one sample) and Melilotus sp. (12 samples). The pollen spectrum shows a transition area between the "pampeana" and the "espinal" regions. The characteristic pollen combinations are discussed.
23222553|With the aid of the optical and scanning eletron microscopes, the pollen grains of 20 species of Galianthe Griseb. are described. The grain morphology is homogeneous: 7 (6-8)-colporate, prolate-spheroidal or subprolate; the exine is semitectate-reticulate; the reticulum is complex, with a suprareticulum and an infrareticulum at a lower level. The exine is the most valuable character to regard Galianthe as a separate genus from Borreria Meyer, which has tectate-foveolate grains.
23230220|A treatment of the Apocynaceae s. str. (Apocynoideae, Rauvolfioideae) from Uruguay is presented here. Ten species from seven genera are recognized: Aspidosperma quebracho-blanco, Condylocarpon isthmicum, Forsteronia glabrescens, Mandevilla coccinea, M. emarginata, M. longiflora, M. petraea, Rhabdadenia madida, Tabernaemontana catharinensis, Vinca major. Descriptions, keys, distributional data and specimens examined are included. Lectoypes are selected for Dipladenia xanthosoma var. major, Echites emarginatus, E. erectus, E. grandiflorus var. minor, E. pinifolius, Laseguea erecta var. guilleminia f. griseo-olivacea, L. erecta var. obliquinervia f. ovata subf. griseo-fusca and subf. griseo-olivacea, L. guilleminiana, Macrosiphonia verticillata var. intermedia, M. verticillata var. peduncularis, M. pinifolia f. glabrata and M. pinifolia f. setosa. A neotype is designated for Aspidosperma quebracho-blanco. Se presenta un tratamiento de las Apocynaceae s. str. (Apocynoideae, Rauvolfioideae) de Uruguay. Se reconocen diez especies de un total de siete gneros: Aspidosperma quebracho-blanco, Condylocarpon isthmicum, Forsteronia glabrescens, Mandevilla coccinea, M. emarginata, M. longiflora, M. petraea, Rhabdadenia madida, Tabernaemontana catharinensis, Vinca major. Se incluyen descripciones, claves, datos de distribucin y especimenes examinados. Se seleccionan lectotipos para Dipladenia xanthosoma var. major, Echites emarginatus, E. erectus, E. grandiflorus var. minor, E. pinifolius, Laseguea erecta var. guilleminia f. griseo-olivacea, L. erecta var. obliquinervia f. ovata subf. griseofusca y subf. griseo-olivacea, L. guilleminiana, Macrosiphonia verticillata var. intermedia, M. verticillata var. peduncularis, M. pinifolia f. glabrata y M. pinifolia f. setosa Se designa un neotipo para Aspidosperma quebracho-blanco.
23222999|This is the third paper of a series of chemotaxonomic studies of the subtribe Phaseolinae in Argentina, which comprises the generic complex Phaseolus-Vigna-Macroptilium and the nearly genus Dolichopsis. Chromatographic patterns of 1 species of the genus Dolichopsis and 3 species of the genus Phaseolus were determined, including Phaseolus vulgaris var. aborigineus and primitive landraces and wild forms of Merlo (San Luis), the southernmost locality ever reported for the common bean. Cluster analysis and ordination by principal coordinates analysis were applied to 31 chemical characters (spots). These results corroborate the taxonomic position of these species, according to Marchal, Mascherpa & Stainier (1978) and Lackey (1977, 1983), who proposed the section Euphaseolus, and supported the fact that Dolichopsis is a genus relatively distant from Phaseolus, and more closely related to Vigna and Strophostyles.
23223199|The diatom flora of Paso de las Piedras reservoir and affluents, Buenos Aires Province, was studied. In this paper we present those species and varieties that belong to the families Diatomaceae, Achnathaceae and Eunotiaceae. Each taxon, studied with light and/ or scanning electron microscope, is described and ilustrated. The taxonomic information is completed with references about geographic distribution and ecological requirements. Diatoma moniliforme Ktzing, a new record for Argentina and South America is included. A brief characterization of the study area and methodology are also given.
23228000|The holotype of Carex sagei comes from central Chile, and this name has long been treated as a synonym of C. fuscula. Recent study indicates, however, that C. sagei is referrable to Carex section Ceratocystis, whereas C. fuscula belongs in section Spirostachyae. It is also demonstrated that C. sagei is the correct name for plants currently called C. barrosii. Carex sagei is known from Argentina, Chile, and the Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), where it frequents hydric habitats, such as marshes, wet meadows, and the margins of lakes, from near sea level to about 850 m. El holotypo de Carex sagei proviene de Chile central, y su nombre ha sido tratado desde hace tiempo como sinnimo de C. fuscula. Un estudio reciente indic, sin embargo, que C. sagei is asignable a Carex seccin Ceratocystis, mientras que C. fuscula pertenece a la seccin Spirostachyae. Se demuestra adems que C. sagei es el nombre correcto de plantas actualmente denomindas C. barrosii. Carex sagei crece en Argentina, Chile, e Islas Malvinas (Falkland Islands), donde frecuenta hbitats palustres tales como pantanos, pastizales hmedos y mrgenes de lagos, desde casi el nivel del mar hasta los 850 m s.m.
23223016|Larnax peruviana (Zahlbr.) Hunz. was published by Hunziker, 1977, without mention of the basionym. In this note the validation is made.
23223009|As a result of the analysis of type specimens from P and PI herbaria, the author proposes to change the names of Salvinia herzogii de la Sota and Salvinia molesta D. S. Mitch. by Salvinia biloba Raddi and Salvinia adnata Desv. respectively. The Desvaux's and Raddi's diagnosis are emended and illustrations of both types are given.
23222543|Diatoms from Rio III reservoir (Crdoba province) new for Argentina. One species and two varieties of diatoms are described and illustrated by SEM micrographs. The taxa Navicula notha Wallace, Cymatopleura solea var. gracilis Grunow and Nitzschia sinuata var. tabellaria (Grunow) Grunow, are recorded for the first time for Argentina.
23212954|Se ha hecho un estudio anatmico de las especies argentinas de Frankeniceas, seis del gnero Frankenia y dos de Anthobryum. Ha sido posible distinguis estos gneros por su anatoma en base a la posicin y al tipo de elementos esclerenquimticos que se encuentran en las hojas. Mientras en Anthobryum hay una capa subepidrmica de esclereidas, en Frankenia el esclernquima est ausente o se encuentra slo en relacin con la red vascular. Caractersticas del esclernquima permiten tambin la separacin de las especies de Frankenia. En F. patagonica este tejido falta o slo aparece en la vaina foliar; en F. microphylla y en F. fischeri acompaa todo el sistema vascular, pero presenta diferencias morfolgicas en las dos especies; en F. juniperoides slo hay un haz grande de fibras que acompaa la nervadura media, mientras que en F. chubutensis este haz, cuando presente, se halla reducido a escasos elementos fibrosos; por ltimo F. pulverulenta carece de esclernquima foliar. Los caracteres del esclernquima de los tallos, como su disposicin y el tipo de clulas que lo componen, el ordenamiento del mismo en un anillo continuo o no, simple o doble, la presencia de esclereidas o de fibras, etc., tambin se toman en cuenta para diferenciar las especies. Tanto en la hoja como en el tallo, la distribucin y los tipos de cristales de oxalato de calcio constituyen buenos caracteres de identificacin. Las especies de Frankenia presentan una interesante variacin en la forma de sus hojas, debido a un mayor o menor arrollamiento de los mrgenes foliares y al desarrollo ms o menos acentuado de la regin de la nervadura media. Ello determina distintos tipos de hojas revolutas, lo que se puede apreciar bien en las secciones transversales. Los caracteres anatmicos observados permitieron la elaboracin de una clave diferencial de especies en Frankenia. En cuanto a Anthobryum, slo fue posible separar anatmicamente dos especies, A. clarenii y A. triandrum. A. tetragonum, entidad taxonmica dudosa, no se distingue de la ltima de las especies mencionadas.
23212958|This is the sixth of a series of papers on the taxonomy of the South American genus Adesmia DC. (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae), in which the author tries to clear up its numerous species, giving descriptions, synonymy, analytical illustrations, known distribution, affinities, herbarium material etc. When possible, he redescribes the type specimens. The sequence is loose, without grouping, because there are still doubts about the delimitation of some taxa between genus and species, but as the author already stated before (Contribuc. V, Darwiniana 13: 9.1964), his purpose is to publish in short a system of the genus in which a considerable number of series will be established. The present contribution deals with twelve species and some varieties or forms, including as novelties: A. pseudincana, A. pseudogrisea and A. lihuelensis nov. spec. from Argentina; A. aromatica and A. coquimbensis nov. spec. from Northern Chile. A. prostrata Clos var. eglandulosa nov. var., central Chile, A. quadripinnata (Hick.) Burk. f. punctata n. f. and var. pygmaea nov. var., from Mendoza, western Argentina, are also described. - A. B.
90005711|
               
41825705|Guadua tagoara subsp. tagoara is reported for the first time in Argentina, it is described and illustrated. A map showing its geographical distribution in South America and a key to the species and subspecies in Argentina are also provided. A lectotype for  ambus a distorta is here designated. Se cita por primera vez a Guadua tagoara subsp. tagoara en la Argentina, la cual se describe e ilustra. Se incluye un mapa que indica su distribucin geogrfica en Amrica del Sur y se presenta una clave para las especies y subespecies presentes en la Argentina. Se designa un lectotipo para Bambusa distorta.
23222521|Karyological studies in Compositae. VI. Gametic chromosome numbers were determined and observations on the meiotic behavior were made on 45 accessions belonging to 39 species of Compositae. The genus Sommerfeltia and 11 species are investigated cytologically for the first time. These are as follows: Eupatorium commersoni. (Cass.) Hieron. (n=ca.20-22), Eupatorium saltense Hieron. (n=ca. 24), Baccharis linearis (Ruiz et Pav.) Pers. (n=9), Sommerfeltia spinulosa (Sprengel) Less. (n=9), Gnaphalium gaudichaudianum DC. (n=14), Gnapahlium cheirantifolium Lam. (n=ca. 14), Tessaria dodoneifolia (Hook. et Arn.) Cabrera (n=10), Gaillardia megapotamica (Spreng.) Baker var. scabiosoides (Arn.) Baker (n=18), Senecio glaber Less. var. pratensis (Phil.) Cabrera (n=20), Senecio otites Kuntze ex DC. (n=ca. 52), and Senecio zosteraefolius Hook, et Arn. (n=20). Different chromosome numbers to those reported previously in the literature were found, for Vernonia flexuosa Sims (n=ca. 30-32), Eupatorium laevigatum Lam. (n=ca. 14), Conyza floribunda Kunth (n=ca. 27-28), and Grindelia pulchella Dunal (n=12, 18). The significance of some of the results in relation to taxonomic and evolutionary problems is discussed.
23223872|The new species Muhlenbergia monandra, endemic to Peru, is described and illustrated. The species is distinguished by possessing longer glumes than anthoecium, spikelike inflorescence, and cleistogamous florets with one stamen. The leaf blade anatomy is described, illustrated, and the distinguishing characters are given. Scanning Electron Microscope observations about the epidermis of the lemma and glumes are made. The taxonomic position is discussed and some remarks about the related annual species of South America are included. Se describe e ilustra Muhlenbergia monandra, endmica de Per. La nueva especie se caracteriza por sus glumas mayores que el antecio, por tener inflorescencias espiciformes y las flores cleistgamas con un estambre. La anatoma foliar se describe e ilustra y se detallan sus caracteres diferenciales. Se incluyen observaciones sobre la epidermis de la lemma y las glumas realizadas con el Microscopio Electrnico de Barrido. Se discute la posicin taxonmica de la nueva entidad y las diferencias con las especies anuales relacionadas que habitan en Amrica del Sur.
23223916|Two saprotrophic Chytridiomycota: Blastocladia globosa Kanouse and B. pringsheimii Reinsch (Blastocladiales, Chytridiomycetes) are new records for Argentina. The genus Blastocladia Reinsch is also a new record for the country. Dos Chytridiomycota saprtrofos: Blastocladia globosa Kanouse y B. pringsheimii Reinsch (Blastocladiales, Chytridiomycetes) son citados por primera vez para la Argentina. El gnero Blastocladia Reinsch es tambin una nueva cita para el pas.
23226845|Three species of Eryngium that constitute new records or problematic taxa for the Floras of Argentina and Uruguay are presented. E. balansae, known from Paraguay and Brazil, is recorded from Argentina for the first time. E. regnellii, originally described from Brazil, is recorded here from Argentina and Uruguay. This species, abundant in highlands of both countries, was in previously confused with E. stenophyllum in floristic and ecological studies. This last name designates an infrequent and poorly known species, and thus it is considered appropriate to here recharacterize it. For each of these three taxa a description, illustrations and a distribution map is provided, as well as a key to the Argentine species of Eryngium sect. Panniculata ser. Latifolia, the group to which the three entities belong. Se presentan tres especies de Eryngium que constituyen nuevas citas o taxones problemticos para las Floras de Argentina y Uruguay. E. balansae, hasta ahora conocida para Paraguay y Brasil, se cita por primera vez para Argentina. E. regnellii descrita para Brasil, se cita en este trabajo para Argentina y Uruguay. Esta especie suele ser abundante en ambientes serranos de estos dos pases pero fue presentada en trabajos florsticos y ecolgicos bajo el nombre de E. stenophyllum. Este ltimo nombre designa una especie poco frecuente y mal conocida por lo que consideramos oportuno caracterizarla una vez ms. Se presenta para cada taxn una descripcin, ilustraciones y un mapa de distribucin, y se proporciona una clave de las especies argentinas de Eryngium sect. Panniculata ser. Latifolia, grupo al que pertenecen las tres entidades.
23223251|Phenetic relationships among 11 species belonging to the genus Berberis from 46 populations of NW Patagonia Argentina, were studied using numerical techniques. The species are B. bidentata Lechl., B. buxifolia Lam., B. cabrerae Job, B. chillanensis Sprag. ex Sandwith, B. darwinii Hook., B. empetrifolia Lam., B. heterophylla Juss., B. linearifolia Phil., B. montana Gay, B. parodii Job and B. serrato-dentata Lechl. Fifty four morphological characters were defined (24 vegetative and 30 reproductive). Forty six populations (with a total of 288 individuals) were analyzed. Two main groups were distinguished from the phenogram. One consists of the populations of 10 spiny species; the other one is only formed by populations of B. serrato-dentata (without - or rarely / with scarce little weak - spines). Numerical analysis allowed to differentiate the species studied and each of the populations within a same species. This may be related to microambiental agents conditioning the phenotype. The results here obtained agree fairly well with the interespecific relationships previously published in the genus Berberis.
23216518|The 13 species of Potamogeton found in Argentina are described in the present paper. The author gives a first contribution to a taxonomic revision of the genus, with a key based on vegetative and sexual morphology, including two new species: P. pedersenii and P. dunicola and several synonimies in Argentina species. The anatomy of the stems, the geographical distribution, and many other observations are also given.
23612311|Although plantations have an artificial origin, they modify environmental conditions that can alter native fungi diversity. The effects of forest management practices on a plantation of willow (Salix) and poplar (Populus) over Agaricomycetes basidiomes biodiversity were studied for one year in an island located in Paran Delta, Argentina. Dry weight and number of basidiomes were measured. We found 28 species belonging to Agaricomycetes: 26 species of Agaricales, one species of Polyporales and one species of Russulales. Our findings suggest that forest management practices on plantations of willow and poplar do not affect either the abundance or diversity of Agaricomycetes basidiomes. Aunque los cultivos forestales son comunidades artificiales, modifican condiciones ambientales que pueden alterar la diversidad fngica nativa. Se estudiaron los efectos del manejo forestal de una plantacin de sauces (Salix) y lamos (Populus) sobre la biodiversidad de Agaromycetes durante un ao en una isla del Delta del Paran, Argentina. Se midieron el peso seco y el nmero de basidiomas. Se identificaron 28 especies pertenecientes a los Agaricomycetes: 26 especies de Agaricales, una de Polyporales y una de Russulales. Nuestros resultados sugieren que el manejo forestal de dicha plantacin no afecta la abundancia ni la diversidad de basidiomas de Agaricomycetes.
23217336|Morphoecology of saxatile plants from Cerro de la Ventana, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. The morphoecology of species which belong to the families Amaranthaceae, Bromeliaceae, Compositae, Leguminosae and Rosaceae is studied. These are all saxatile plants which grow in different types of rocky outcrops and stony soils of Sierra de la Ventana, a low mountain range that presents sharp variations of altitude, slope and exposition. In this study they are grouped according to their life forms and their morphology is described and discussed. The species are then classified into groups in relation to their habitats. The results indicate that the most frequent adaptative features in them are: slightly xeromorphic leaves, and stems, roots and xilopodia with anomalus secondary growth and early cork. Furthermore some of them have photosynthetic tissue with Kranz and CAM structure, aerophores and other special features.
23612324|Stilbohypoxylon quisquiliarum var. quisquiliarum is a new record for the Argentinean mycobiota. We describe and illustrate the teleomorph and anamorph. The synnemata are recorded for the first time in its natural habitat. A dichotomous key to Stilbohypoxylon taxa so far known from Argentina and a distribution map are presented. Stilbohypoxylon quisquiliarum var. quisquiliarum se cita por primera vez para la micobiota argentina. Se describe e ilustra el teleomorfo y anamorfo. Se registran por primera vez los sinemas creciendo en su hbitat natural. Se presenta una clave dicotmica de las especies de Stilbohypoxylon halladas hasta ahora en la Argentina y un mapa con su distribucin en el pas.
23225173|Carex ruthsatzae of sect. Abditispicae (Cyperaceae) is newly described and illustrated from Bolivia. This species grows in high Andean moors, at elevations above 4000 m s.m., and is characterized by having all of its spikes borne at the base of the plant and leaves less than 1.5 mm wide. In addition, various notes regarding other members of section Abditispicae are presented here, such as range extensions and habitat information, and a key to the species is offered. Moreover, because some members of this section display a trend toward dioecy, this intriguing adaptation is also briefly discussed. Se describe una nueva especie de Bolivia, Carex ruthsatzae perteneciente a la seccin Abditispicae (Cyperaceae). Esta especie crece en cinagas altoandinas, por arriba de los 4000 m s.m. y se caracteriza por sus espigas casi ssiles, escondidas en la base de la planta y por sus hojas angostas, de menos de 1,5 mm de ancho. Se agregan notas sobre distribucin geogrfica y hbitat de otras especies de esta seccin as como tambin una clave. Adems, debido a que algunas de las especies muestran tendencia a la dioecia, esta llamativa adaptacin se discute brevemente.
23217341|The species of Adesmia, series Microphyllae (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae). A taxonomic revision of the series Microphyllae Burkart of the genus Adesmia DC. is presented. In this series are included xerophyte species that grow in the mountainous regions of South America, from the South of Per, Chile, West of Bolivia and Argentina to the arid Patagonian plateau, excluding Tierra del Fuego and the Malvinas Islands. Descriptions, illustrations, observations and a key to the species are given. Series Arboreae Burkart is considered a synonym of series Microphyllae. In this treatment 33 species are considered valid and 18 are placed in the synonymy. A mendozana Ulib. and A. pumahuasiana Ulib. are new species. A. dumosa Phil. and A. virens Phil. are considered doubtful species. Excluded species are A. odontophylla Phil. and A peraltae (Reiche) Ulib., which are transferred to series Glutinosae Burkart.
23230204|Astragalus cajamarcanus (Leguminosae, Galegeae), a new species endemic to Cajamarca, Peru, is described and illustrated. This new species can be compared with the related A. sagasteguii also from Cajamarca. A morphological comparison with its closest species and notes about the habitat are provided. Se describe e ilustra Astragalus cajamarcanus (Leguminosae, Galegeae), una nueva especie endmica de Cajamarca, Per. Esta nueva especie puede ser comparada con A. sagasteguii, tambin oriunda de Cajamarca. Se incluye una comparacin morfolgica con su especie ms afn y datos sobre el hbitat.
23223873|The new genus Scandentia is proposed with four species; two of them are separated from Borreria sect. Galianthe: S. cymosa and S. monodon, and another two are new ones: S. andreii and S. macrobracteata. Affinities and differences with Emmeorhiza, Galianthe and Borreria are keyed out. The species are described and illustrated. Un nuevo gnero, Scandentia, es propuesto, representado por cuatro especies, dos de las cuales se han separado de Borreria sect. Galianthe: S. cymosa y S. monodon y otras dos son nuevas: S. andreii y S. macrobracteata. Se detallan las afinidades y diferencias de Scandentia con Emmeorhiza, Galianthe y Borreria. Todas las especies se describen y se ilustran.
23212159|Este artculo es un bosquejo de las diferencias de punto de vista, con respecto al estudio de las Gramneas, entre los botnicos de los siglos XVI y primera parte del XVII, y de la poca actual. El mtodo seguido es el de considerar la manera de ser encarado el asunto en tres  herbarios  (herbals) tpicos: De historia stirpium de Leonardo Fuchs, 1542; A new Herbal, de Guillermo Turner, partes 1 y 2, 1551 y 1562; y la edicin de Johnson del Herball de Juan Gerard, 1633. Hace resaltar la falta de una nomenclatura cientfica con que tenan que luchar los descriptores antiguos, dando ejemplos de sus descripciones generalmente pintorescas. Aclara el carcter simblico de las ilustraciones de Fuchs, en que a veces, como en el caso del maz, combina con una figura caracteres de 3 o 4 variedades. Da ejemplos del utilitarismo y de la sujecin a los nombres comunes de las plantas, en los botnicos antiguos citados; menciona relatos sobre supuestas  metamorfosis  de un cereal en otro, que circulaban en esa poca, siendo ya entonces refutados por algn autor de claro criterio. Por fin alude al concepto amplio de  gramnea  y  cereal  que imperaba en esos das.  A. B.
23223246|Mitotic chromosome counts and observations are given for the 6 species of Acacia growing in San Luis province: A. caven (Mol.) Mol., A. atramentaria Benth., A. visco Lor. ex Griseb., A. aroma Gillies ex Hook, Acacia furcatispina Burk. and A. farnesiana Willd. The number 2n=26 was always found. A. atramentaria is cytologically studied for the first time. In A. caven and A. furcatispina, polyploid cells (2n=52) were also detected, being this the first report of polysomaty in these species.
23223260|Diplazium ambiguum Raddi and D. herbaceum Fe are reported for the first time for the Argentinian flora. Diplazium lilloi (Hicken) R.M. Tryon & A.F. Tryon is registered for the first time for the Bolivian flora and its generic position is updated.
90005708|
               
23212988|Contribution to the knowledge of the neotropical "Salviniaceae". V. "Salvinia sprucei" Kuhn.  In the present paper, the fifth of the series which started with a study of the sporophyte of Salvinia oblongifolia, the author gives some comments of the following aspects of S. sprucei: geographic distribution, ramification of the submerged organ, venation pattern and anatomy of the leaf, with special emphasis on the upper and lower epidermis and the presence of vestigial stomata. A comparative table of the foliar characters for the neotropical species of Salvinia is also given.
23216493|Based on collections obtained in Tierra del Fuego, as a part of the research of the Cryptogamic Flora of Tierra del Fuego, a new species of Oedipodium, O. fuegianum. O. Khnemann et M. F. Gonalves-C. is here described, of which only one species from the northen hemisphere O. griffithianum was known. It was also proved that the material collected by Skottsberg in Is. Malvinas named O. griffithianum really is O. fuegianum.
23211554|In a short discussion the author voices his belief that E. portulacoides L. emend. Spreng. is a collective species with broad and ill defined limits. He points out that the binomial stands despite the fact that it is typified in the Linnean herbarium by specimens of E. Ipecacuanhae and E. helioscopia. The four following subspecies are published: E. portulacoides subsp. normalis (O. Ktze.) Croiz.; E. portulacoides subsp. collina (Phil.) Croiz.; E. portulacoides subsp. major (Muell.-Arg.) Croiz. including var. obtusifolia Muell.-Arg. and var. andensis Croiz.; E. portulacoides subsp. nahuelhuapina Croiz. The author points out that the current International Rules of Nomenclature do bind a taxonomist to select as the type of a species a specimen rather than a description or a figure. The choice of the type is ruled by the duty of maintaining existing nomenclature so far as possible, not by other considerations. En una breve discusin, el autor expone su conviccin de que Euphorbia portulacoides L. emend. Spreng. es una especie colectiva con lmites amplios y mal definidos. Expresa que el binomio es vlido a pesar del hecho que en el herbario de Linneo est tipificado por ejemplares de E. Ipecacuanhae y E. helioscopia. Se publican las cuatro subespecies siguientes: E. portulacoides subsp. normalis (O. Ktze.) Crojz.; E. portulacoides subsp. collina (Phil.) Croiz.; E. portulacoides subsp. major (Muell.-Arg.) Croiz., incluyendo las var. obtusifolia Muell.-Arg. y var. andensis Croiz.; E. portulacoides subsp. nahuelhuapina Croiz. El autor sostiene que las Reglas internacionales de nomenclatura obligan al taxonomista a elegir como tipo de una especie un ejemplar, de preferencia a una figura o descripcin. La eleccin del tipo est sujeta al deber de mantener la nomenclatura existente hasta donde es posible, no a otras consideraciones.  (Trad. A. B.)
23212170|El autor hace una minuciosa descripcin del gnero de Verbenceas Baillonia Bocq. y de su nica especie B. amabilis Bocq. Reune los antecedentes relacionados con el gnero y su historia; habla de la confusin de ciertos autores al sinonimizarlo con Diostea Miers y de la comparacin que realiza Moore de ambos gneros, para demostrar sus diferencias fundamentales. Indica la estrecha relacin que tiene con Citharexylum. Establece que el ovario es bicarpelar, con un carpelo frecuentemente abortado y un falso tabique que origina dos lculos, segn la opinin de Junell. La distribucin geogrfica de la especie es dada con citacin del material estudiado (Brasil: Matto Grosso, Paraguay, Bolivia oriental, Argentina: Formosa).  N. S. T.
23216499|Four species of Ilex L. live in Argentina: I. dumosa Reiss. var. guaranina Loes., I. brevicuspis Reiss., I. paraguariensis St.-Hil. var. paraguariensis and I. argentina Lillo. The last one grows in the subtropical rain forest of NW Argentina and SE Bolivia, and the former live in the subtropical forest of NE Argentina, Brasil and Paraguay. A description is given of each of these species, drawings, a key for their identification, a distribution map of their dispersion in Argentina, and also some characters of their foliar anatomy are discussed. Five other species are considered doubtfoul or excluded from the argentine Flora.
23222530|A study of nuclear DNA content (2C) was made in a Phaseolus coccineus L. ssp. coccineus (cv. Pallar comn) population and in five accesssions of P. vulgaris L. (including var. aborigineus (Burk.) Baudet) using microspectrophotometric methods with Feulgen staining. The results show that the P. coccineus cultivar (1.98 pg) has a higher DNA content than the P. vulgaris accessions (Alubia Cerrillo = 1.79 pg; var. aborigineus = 1.71 pg; Exp. 113 = 1.69 pg; Dor 41 = 1.63 pg; Dor 57 = 1.56 pg) analyzed. P. vulgaris var. aborigineus and P. vulgaris cv. Experimental 113 have a total chromosome length of 33.10 and 32.50 m respectively. P. coccineus have larger chromosomes (TCL = 46.92 m) and bigger C+ chromocenters in interphase. Those accessions with the highest DNA content are better adapted to cold and moderate climate regions.
23223189|Main patterns of synflorescence variation are known for Calceolaria species from northern South America (Troll, 1964, 1967, 1976; Anderson & Molau, 1980) and for few species from southern regions of South America (Troll, 1975, 1976, 1977). Patterns similar to these and new ones are reported in the present paper, as revealed by a study of 35 species from southern South America. According to this study, the basic synflorescence type is found in section Rugosae. Other morphological and caryological data support the view of this section as more ancestral in the southern range of the genus. In three sections exclusive of this southern range (Bellidifoliae, Kremastocheilos and Corymbosae) reduction of the synflorescences is associated to a rosulate habit. Extreme reduction in these groups lead to single flowered inflorescences. Truncation is an other kind of reduction pattern and is found in other groups as isolated events. Different strategies of flower exposition are evident mainly in the rosulate species depending on which part of the synflorescences suffers elongation.
23213896|El color blanco de la pequea mancha, rodeada por una banda casi negra, de la flor ligulada amarilla de Gazania rigens (Compositae), tiene una causa poco comn: en las clulas epidrmicas adaxiales se encuentra una capa densa de eleoplastos que son responsables de la reflexin total de la luz. El parenquima aerfero del mesfilo aumenta la vistosidad de los colores, pero es de menor importancia. La banda oscura presenta un caso de mezcla sustractiva de colores complementarios: antociana azul y cromoplastos amarillos. Se describen el origen y la anatoma de la mancha blanca y de la banda negra, as como algunos otros caracteres anatmicos de la lgula. Die weisse Farbe des kleinen, von einer fast schwarzen Binde umrahmten Augenflecks auf den gelben Strahlenblten der Composite Gazania rigens, entsteht auf ungewhnliche Art. In den oberseitigen Epidermiszellen befindet sich eine geschlossene Schicht von Elaioplasten, die fr die totale Reflexion des Lichts verantwortlich sind. Das intercellulare Luft-Tapetum des Mesophylls hat nur untergeordnete Bedeutung. Die schwarze Binde beruht auf Subtraktion von Komplementrfarben: gelbe Chromoplasten ber blauem Anthocyan derselben Zelle. Genauere Mitteilungen werden gemacht ber die Entwicklung des Musterflecks sowie die anatomischen Datails von Epidermis und Mesophyll der Strahlenblten.
90005707|The aim of the present study was to characterize karyologically species of
23215540|Silicophytoliths have become recently a new matter of investigation in Natural Sciences, applied to Botany, Ecology, Limnology, Sedimentology, Pedology and Paleontology fields. They are useful in the interpretation of many of their problems. The knowledge of their genetic, morphologic, physical and chemical properties, and of their geobiogenetic circuit, is the matter of this work. At this respect, it is known that certain Families of plants, as Gramineae, Podostemaceae, Cyperaceae and Palmae, are able to yield silicophytoliths, by mineralization of epidermial or other tissues cells. Metabolic processes related with the plant transpiration cause the decay of certain cells and their following sustitution by amorphous silica, according to definite and constant morphological patterns for each species. Their physical and chemical strength help their steadfastness in sediments as microclasts. In this way, they can be affected by depositional processes up to dissolution, or subsist unaffected by them, passing to make recent or fossil biological records.
23225167|A catalogue of the Fabaceae type material of Carlos Luis Spegazzini (1858-1926) deposited in the herbarium of Museo de La Plata (LP), Argentina, is presented. Spegazzini and collaborators collected extensively in Argentina, mainly in Patagonia. As a result of these expeditions, Spegazzini's collection of types includes ca. 700 specimens. The analysis of Fabaceae reveals 79 type specimens, 63 of which are deposited in LP. Thirty three taxa have resulted in nomina nuda, nomina illegitima, etc. The treatment includes a list of original names arranged alphabetically, the current names with authors, the exsiccata followed by the type category, the original citation or protologue, and all relevant observations. In addition, a list of specimens that were not found in LP, a list of the nomina illegitima, nomina invalida, nomina nova and nomina nuda, and a list of the Spegazzini's genera are provided. The most representative illustrations attached to the type specimens, drawn by Spegazzini, are also included. Se presenta un catlogo del material tipo de Fabaceae de Carlos Luis Spegazzini (1858-1926) depositado en el Herbario del Museo de La Plata (LP), Argentina. Spegazzini y colaboradores colectaron extensivamente en Argentina, principalmente en Patagonia. Como resultado de estas expediciones, la coleccin de tipos de Spegazzini alcanza ca. 700 especmenes. El anlisis de Fabaceae dio como resultado 79 especmenes, de los cuales 63 se hallan depositados en LP, y 33 resultaron nomina nuda, nomina illegitima, etc. El tratamiento incluye una lista de los nombres originales ordenados alfabticamente, los nombres actuales con autores, la exsiccata seguida por la categora del tipo, la cita original o protlogo, y observaciones consideradas relevantes. Adems, se proporciona una lista de los especmenes que no se encontraron en LP, una lista de la nomina illegitima, nomina invalida, nomina nova y nomina nuda, y una lista de los gneros de Spegazzini. Tambin son incluidas las ilustraciones ms representativas adjuntas a los materiales tipo realizadas por Spegazzini.
23211920|Se enumeran varias especies de Trifolium adventicias en Sudamrica extra-tropical, a saber: Nueva para la Repblica Argentina: T. glomeratum. Nuevas para Chile (y probablemente Sudamrica): T. arvense, T. incarnatum, T. striatum, T. tomentosum. Nueva para Uruguay: T. fragiferum. Verificacin o ampliacin de reas de especies ya establecidas: T. campestre, T. strepens, T. spadiceum.
23218916|Multivariate analysis of morphological variation in diploid and tetraploid populations of Solanum gourlayi (Solanaceae) and related species. Cluster analysis and ordination by principal component analysis (PCA) were applied to 31 morphological characters of diploid and tetraploid cytotypes of S. gourlayi Hawkes and diploids S. vidaurrei Crdenas and S. incamayoense Okada & Clausen. The purpose of these numerical analyses was to determine whether the diploid and tetraploid populations of S. gourlayi are members of the same taxon, and how the diploid cytotype is related to other diploid species. The results confirmed that the diploid and tetraploid populations of S. gourlayi are not sufficiently distinct to be considered different species. However, the degree of morphological distinctiveness and complete geographic isolation of the tetraploid and diploid populations from the province of Jujuy, and the diploids from Salta, allows them to be treated as subspecies of S. gourlayi, S. vidaurrei resembles diploid S. gourlayi while S. incamayoense is clearly a distinct group.
23211748|1. Wedelia glauca (Ort.) Hoffm. ex Hicken, a member of the Compositae-Heliantheae, is a well known indigenous weed in central an northern Argentine. 2. Botanical synonyms are given (among which the best known is Pascalia glauca Ortega), with principal literature and the following common names: sunchillo, suncho, flor de sapo, yerba de sapo, yuyo de sapo, clavel amarillo, chilquilla, asolador, duraznnillo and yerba del bicho colorado, etc. 3. The geographical distribution of this weed is discussed, with a list of herbarium specimens examined, pointing out that its home is not Chile nor Mexico, as some botanists write, but central Argentina, Uruguay and the extreme south of Brasil (Ro Grande do Sul). As an adventicious plant it has appeared in the United States (Florida), in Australia (Victoria) and in northern Chile. 4. Like Johnsongrass, Wedelia glauca has been declared agricultural pest in Argentina. It is especially troublesome in northern Buenos Aires, Entre Ros, Santa Fe, Crdoba and the northwestern irrigated districts. It is also toxic to livestock, when in the fruiting stage especially to swine (experiments of L. Giusti).
23230188|The present contribution is the second part of the taxonomic studies about the genus Hysterographium from South America. During the revision of Spegazzini's type specimens, three valid species (H. andicola, H. australe and H. praeandinum), two doubtful species (H. cumingii and H. cuyanum), and one synonym of H. mori (H. bonaerense) were confirmed. Hysterographium subfuscum is not a valid species. Lectotypes for H. andicola and H. praeandinum were designated. A key to species of Hysterographium recorded from Argentina, Chile and Paraguay is presented. La presente contribucin es la segunda parte de los estudios taxonmicos sobre el gnero Hysterographium para Sudamrica. Durante la revisin de los especmenes tipo de Spegazzini, se estableci la validez de tres especies (H. andicola, H. australe y H. praeandinum), dos especies se consideraron dudosas (H. cumingii y H. cuyanum) y se propuso a H. bonaerense como sinnimo de H. mori. Hysterographium subfuscum no es una especie vlida. Se designaron lectotipos para H. andicola y H. praeandinum. Se presenta una clave de las especies de Hysterographium registradas para Argentina, Chile y Paraguay.
23223217|This paper presents the comparative analysis of the seed morphology and stem structure of 12 species of Justicia Houst. ex L. from the northeastern of Argentina. Even though these species belong to four different sections, all of them have a well developed endodermis in the stem, and a normal structure except in J. laevilinguis (Nees) Lindau that is polystelic. In agreement with Graham (1988) J. dumetorum Morong and J. squarrosa Griseb. belong to sect. Simonisia; J. goudotti V.A.W. Graham, J. lythroides (Nees) V.A.W. Graham, J. oblonga (Nees) Lindau and J. ramulosa V.A.W. Graham to sect. Chaetothylax; J. brasiliana Roth and J. floribunda (C. Koch) Wassh. to sect. Plagiacanthus and J. laevilinguis to sect. Dianthera subsect. Dianthera Taking into account the analized characters, three species, two of which were previously considered as of uncertain taxonomic position, are tentatively placed within the infrageneric classification of Graham (1988): J. tweediana Griseb. in sect. Plagiacanthus, J. axillaris (Nees) Lindau in sect. Chaetothylax and J. comata (L.) Lam. in sect. Dianthera subsect. Dianthera.
23222532|Algae from continental waters of Argentina VIII: Entre Ros III. This is the last contribution of the series of studies on the algae of western Entre Ros (Argentina). Fifty species, varieties and formae of the genera Cosmarium Corda, Staurastrum Meyen, Sphaerozosma Corda and Cosmocladium de Brb. were identified. One is a new taxon: Staurastrum variodirectum Krieger var. entrerrianum nov. var.; 17 are new records for Argentina and 30 are new for Entre Ros.
23227131|We documented somatic and meiotic chromosome numbers of 6 species of Asplenium from Argentina. We present for the first time chromosome numbers of A. ulbrichtii var. serrato-dentatum, 2n=2x=72, and A. triquetrum, 2n=4x=144. Previously reported counts of n=72 for A. auritum, 2n=2x=72 for A. claussenii, n=36 for A. formosum, and 2n=8x=288 for A. serratum, were confirmed. Documentamos los nmeros cromosmicos meiticos y somticos de 6 especies del gnero Asplenium. Se presentan por primera vez los nmeros cromosmicos de A. ulbrichtii var. serrato-dentatum, 2n=2x=72, y A. triquetrum, 2n=4x=144. Reconfirmamos los nmeros cromosmicos de A. auritum, n=72; A. claussenii, 2n=2x=72; A. formosum, n=36; y A. serratum, 2n=8x=288.
23213806|This study was made on cultivated plants from the salt water Luro pond (10,2 % total salts; pH 11), near Santa Rosa, La Pampa Province, Argentina. Ruppia cirrhosa (Petag.) Grande, is believed to be the valid name for the species, R. spiralis L. ex Dum. being a synonym. The length and coiling or the peduncle, as well as the chromosome number, are the best characters to recognize Ruppia species. A key is given for identification of the species and varieties. The vascular system of the inflorescence, shows signs of reduction on account of aquatic habitat. The staminal bundle ends at the conective; the so called "sepaloid conective" lacks a vascular bundle. The ovary shows two bundles, one ventral and one dorsal; the last one disappears at about the middle part of the carpellary wall. The "sepaloid conectives", "pseudoperianth", or "conectival appendages" of Ruppia and Potamogeton are in fact true sepals or tepals, with different degrees of adnation to the stamens. Opinions of several authors on the matter are listed. From the anther, fruit and seed anatomy, the presence of the following characters deserve to be mentioned: 1) a functional endothecium, 2) a free cutinized layer inside the theca, in contact with the endothecium, 3) the endocarp of fruit heavily sclerified, perforated in the placental region by two ducts with parenquimatous pitted tissue, 4) a hypostase, 5) seed with two integuments, the innermost with a thick cutinized layer and big cellulosic horn-like processes in its cell lumina, 6) a thin layer of perisperm surrounding the embryo. All these facts are related to the biology of the species.
23212150|Se describe en este trabajo W. patagonica, nueva especie de este gnero, que constituye el nico representante del mismo conocido fuera de Nueva Zelandia y Tasmania. Es afn a W. erythrocephala (Tuslasne) Sing. & Smith, pero difiere por sus esporas mucho ms pequeas, y el color del peridio, que es ms intenso y menos brillante.
23612319|Escallonia alpina and E. rubra (Escalloniaceae) are distributed in the same geographical region in the southern Andes; they are differentiated by few diagnostic morphological characters such as flower arrangement, and type and presence of glands. A morphological gap between both species is absent in some populations; in addition, intermediate forms have been recognized and described as hybrids. The aim of this work is to examine the genetic variation in populations of Escallonia alpina and E. rubra, and to analyze if there is a correspondence between genetic and morphological variability. We studied the morphology of 39 individuals belonging to five populations, which were also used to perform an AFLP analysis. We conducted ordination, clustering and Bayesian assignment analyses to investigate the relationship among individuals, we calculated genetic diversity indices and performed a Mantel test. As a result of the morphological analysis, two populations were assigned to each species, while the remaining population could not be assigned unequivocally to any of the two species, as the individuals exhibited an intermediate morphology. A strong correspondence between traditional morphological characters and the AFLP pattern was observed. Our preliminary morphological and molecular evidence support Escallonia alpina and E. rubra as two distinct species. The variability found in the intermediate population might be the result of inter-specific hybridization or incomplete lineage sorting. Escallonia alpina y E. rubra (Escalloniaceae) comparten su rea de distribucin en el sur de los Andes y se diferencian por pocos caracteres morfolgicos diagnsticos, tales como la disposicin de las flores y la presencia y tipo de glndulas; sin embargo, en algunas poblaciones no es posible asignar los individuos a una u otra especie. Adems, se han reconocido y descrito como hbridos varias formas de transicin entre ambas. El objectivo de este trabajo es examinar la variabilidad gentica poblacional de Escallonia alpina y E. rubra, y analizar si se corresponde con la variabilidad morfolgica observada. Se estudi la morfologa en 39 individuos de cinco poblaciones sobre los que tambin se realiz un anlisis de AFLP. Se investig la relacin entre los individuos mediante anlisis de ordenacin, agrupamiento y de asignacin bayesiana. Adems se calcularon ndices de diversidad y se realiz una prueba de Mantel. A partir del anlisis morfolgico, se asignaron dos poblaciones a cada especie, mientras que una poblacin con individuos con morfologa intermedia no se pudo asignar unvocamente a ninguna de las dos especies. Se observ una fuerte correspondencia entre las especies delimitadas mediante caracteres morfolgicos diagnsticos tradicionales y el patrn de AFLP. La evidencia morfolgica y molecular preliminar nos permiti reconocer a Escallonia alpina y E. rubra como dos especies distintas, y a una poblacin con caracteres morfolgicos y genticos intermedios que podran ser el resultado de flujo gnico interespecfico o de una separacin incompleta de linajes.
23212990|This paper is a continuation of a previous contribution (Darwiniana, 12 (3) : 385-445, 1962). Twenty five species of Operculate Discomycetes are herein recorded, with descriptions of fifteen of them. They are distributed among twelve genera belonging to the families: Helvellaceae, Morchellaceae, Pezizaceae, Humariaceae and Ascobolaceae; the genera Pachyella and Jafnea are recorded for the first time from Argentina. Ten species are new records for this country; a new combination is proposed, namely Lasiobolus pilosus (Fr.) Sacc. var. vaccinus (Boud.) Gamund (Bas.: Ascophanus pilosus (Fr.) Boud. var. vaccinus Boud.); three new species and a new variety, are described, viz. Galactinia nothofageti, Pachyella dearnessii, Scutellinia hydrogeton and Jafnea tasmanica var. singeri.
23213867|During the revision of the species of Fimbristylis Vahl and Bulbostylis Kunth, for the  Flora ilustrada de Entre Ros , the author found intraprophyllar buds in the inflorescence of Bulbostylis, while in Fimbristylis they are lacking. This character may become of interest for the distinction of both. Lists of species studied according to this new difference, are given. Se revisaron las especies de Fimbristylis Vahl y Bulbostylis Kunth para la  Flora Ilustrada de Entre Ros , encontrndose yemas intraprofilares en la inflorescencia de Bulbostylis; este carcter puede resultar til para su distincin de Fimbristylis, que carece de ellas. Se considera de inters dar a conocer estos datos con el fin de extender las observaciones.
23225130|Isostigma dissitifolium and I. speciosum are newly reported for Argentina (Misiones Province). Five species have been previously recorded: I. cordobense, I. crithmifolium, I. hoffmannii, I. molfinianum and I. peucedanifolium. All distributions are updated. I. dissitifolium and I. speciosum are described, illustrated and their geographical distribution is given. A key to differentiate Argentine species of Isostigma is provided. Isostigma dissitifolium e I. speciosum son registradas por primera vez para la Argentina (Provincia de Misiones), sumndose a las cinco especies del gnero ya citadas para el pas: I. cardobense, I. crithmifolium, I. hoffmannii, I. molfinianum e I. peucedanifolium. Se actualizan las distribuciones de todos estos taxones. I. dissitifolium e I. speciosum son descriptas e ilustradas y se provee una clave para diferenciar las especies argentinas de Isostigma.
23222540|The identity of Melinia (Asclepiadaceae). The nomenclature of the genus Melinia Decaisne is clarified, on the basis of its type species: M. candolleana (Hook. et Arn.) Decaisne. The following new combinations are proposed: M. micrantha (Malme) Krapov. & Cceres, M. parviflora (Malme) Krapov. & Cceres, M. tubata (Malme) Krapov. & Cceres and M. volcanense (T. Meyer) Krapov. & Cceres, for species previously asigned to Aphanostelma Malme. Melinia iberae Fontana is considered a synonym of Widgrenia corymbosa Malme.
23213799|Se han estudiado los caracteres antomo-sistemticos de las especies del gnero Adesmia y se han analizado en especial ciertos caracteres epidrmicos como tipos de estomas y tricomas, lo mismo que las estructuras secretoras de diversas sustancias como muclagos y taninos. Se han encontrado varios tipos de estomas que caracterizan grupos de especies (series) sistemticamente afines. As los estomas anisocticos estn presentes en la mayora de las series del subgnero Adesenia y los anomocticos en el subgnero Acanthadesenia. Los estemas en roseta, con una peculiar disposicin de las clulas subsidiarias alrededor de las oclusivas, caracterizan series de ambos subgneros. Existen en Adesmia tricomas glandulares y no glandulares; estos ltimos comprenden los tricelulares y los bifurcados. El tricoma glanduloso con una base bulbosa multicelular es caracterstico de la casi totalidad de las especies investigadas y presenta una transicin gradual con las emergencias de base globoso-cnica; entre ambos no se puede trazar una lnea rgida de separacin. Unas pocas especies presentan glndulas peculiares, sobre-elevadas o inmersas en los tejidos y de forma diversa. Con ambos tipos de tricomas, emergencias y glndulas, no fue posible establecer relaciones antomo-sistemticas, dada su variabilidad, a veces, dentro de una misma especie; en otros casos debido a la presencia de un mismo tipo de estas estructuras en especies no afines, alejadas sistemticamente. Otros caracteres estudiados fueron constantes para todas o casi todas las especies del gnero, como la presencia de clulas mucilaginosas en la epidermis de los foliolos y de sacos tnicos en los rganos vegetativos y florales. El estudio comparativo en las distintas especies de las emergencias de los frutos, permiti ordenarlas en grados de creciente complejidad. This paper presents an anatomical study of the species of the large South American genus Adesmia (Leguminosae). Special treatment of the epidermal characters as hairs and stomata, and its taxonomic value in the identification of the species is given. The leaf histology of representative species in each series is also studied. Systematical series are characterized by defined types of foliar stomata: the anisocytic type is present in most series of the subgenus Adesmia and the anomocytic type in the subgenus Acanthadesmia. A third type, the ciclocytic or in rosette is present in species of both subgenera. The hairs are of glandular and non glandular types. The former is represented by the bottle-shaped hair with a bulbous base and the latter includes the three-celled hair with an elongated terminal cell and the two-armed hair. Glandular structures of peculiar form, some of them sessiles and others deep-seated in the leaf tissues, are present in few species. With the trichomes and the glands it was not possible to establish anatomical-systematical relations. Other characters, as the mucilaginous epidermal cells and the tannic sacs of the vegetative and floral organs of the plant occured in most of the investigated species. The fruit walls present some characteristic emergences of different shape and structure which were studied from a comparative point of view.
23215729|Se estudiaron biodermas algales de suelos sub-hmedos y semi-ridos provenientes de 12 estaciones ubicadas en las provincias de Chaco y Formosa, al N de la Repblica, considerando los aspectos florstico, qumico y la relacin entre ambos. Las determinaciones de amino nitrgeno, nitritos + nitratos y pH obtenidas a nivel del bioderma se compararon con las del suelo subyacente (10-15 cm de profundidad) y zonas prximas sin cobertura algal (superficie y profundidad). En dichos biodermas predominan las algas azules o Cyanophyta. Se identificaron 48 taxones incluidos en 11 gneros correspondientes a las familias Chroococcaceae, Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae y Scytonemataceae. La familia Oscillatoriaceae es la mejor representada tanto en nmero de gneros como en especies (35  72,9%), de las cuales 8 se citan por primera vez en la Argentina. The present report evaluates the amino nitrogen and nitrite + nitrate content of algal-crusts or "biodermas" from several north argentine sub-humid and semi-arid habitats of Chaco and Formosa provinces compared to their sub-surface levels (10 15 cm) and to surrounding areas without such a crust formation (surface and sub-surface samples), as well as the incidence of some algal species. Cyanophyta or blue-green algae are predominant; forty eight taxons belonging to eleven genera included in the families Chroococcaceae, Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae and Scytonemataceae were identified. Oscillatoriaceae is the best represented family with thirty five species, eight of which are recorded for the first time in Argentine.
23223225|Two parasitic Chytridiomycota: Rhizophydium carpophilum, Catenaria anguillulae (Chytridiomycetes), and two parasitic and one saprobic Oomycetes: Lagenidium destruens, Rozellopsis simulans and Saprolegnia litoralis, are new records for Argentina. The genera Catenaria, Lagenidium and Rozellopsis are also new records for Argentina.
23223917|Danthonia rugoloana Sulekic sp. nov. from Argentina is described and illustrated. A dichotomic key and some remarks about related species growing in NW Argentina are included. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Danthonia, D. rugoloana, del noroeste de la Argentina. Se incluye una clave dicotmica para diferenciar las especies del gnero Danthonia que viven en el noroeste y se realizan algunos comentarios acerca de las mismas.
23215542|Se describen e ilustran las especies de los gneros Enteromorpha, Blidingia y Percursaria que se encuentran en el litoral atlntico argentino. Se citan diez especies con sus variedades, de las cuales: Enteromorpha flexuosa var. flexuosa; E. prolifera; E. bulbosa var. bulbosa f. cornucopiae; E. torta; E. lingulata y Blidingia marginata se citan por primera vez para la Argentina. The species of Enteromorpha, Blidingia and Percursaria (Algae, Chlorophyta) found on the Argentine coasts are described, original drawings and photos are given. Ten species and their varieties are cited. Enteromorpha flexuosa var. flexuosa; E. bulbosa var. bulbosa f. cornucopiae; E. torta; E. prolifera; E. lingulata and Blidingia marginata are recorded for the first time from the Argentine coasts. A key is included for the species determination.
23223846|The Marcgraviaceae is a small-sized neotropical family with 8 genera and perhaps 110 species mainly distributed in Colombian Amazonia, Costa Rica, Panama and Andean Colombian and Peruvian montane rain forests. Five genera and 27 species were recorded from Colombian Amazonia, where the most diverse genus was Marcgravia (13 species), followed by Souroubea (6 species), Marcgraviastrum (4 species), Norantea and Ruyschia with 2 species each. Based on a phenetic biogeographical classification, comparisons of diversity, distribution, affinity, and endemism among different Neotropical regions are provided. Although the knowledge of the Marcgraviaceae is still incomplete, some features with regard to their diversity and distribution in the Neotropic begin to emerge: 1. The Marcgraviaceae are more diverse in Western Amazonia, particularly Colombian Amazonia, than other areas (e.g., southern Mexico and southern Brazil); 2. Narrow endemic species appears to be low (ca. 24%); 3. Fifty percent of the Marcgraviaceae have a restricted distribution to a phytogeographical Region level; 4. The distribution of the numerous wide-ranging species are more or less patchy; 5. This family showed its highest endemism in northwestern of South America (Peru and Colombia); 6. The geologic history of the Andes has played an important role in the distribution and evolution of the Marcgraviaceae. For instance, most of the species diversity of several genera tends to be concentrated in Central America (Norantea), the Colombian Andean Region (Marcgraviastrum), or Western Amazonia (Marcgravia), and these areas correspond to areas of different geologic age. The Marcgraviaceae seems to have originated in South America and thus probably migrated to Central America. Las Marcgraviaceae son una pequea familia neotropical con 8 gneros y unas 110 especies, principalmente distribuidas en la Amazonia colombiana, Costa Rica, Panam y en los bosques hmedos montanos de la regin andina de Colombia y Per. En la Amazonia colombiana se han registrado 5 gneros y 27 especies, donde Marcgravia es el gnero ms diverso (13 especies), seguido por Souroubea (6 especies), Marcgraviastrum (4 especies) y Norantea y Ruyschia con 2 especies cada uno. Se comentan, sobre la base de una clasificacin biogeogrfica fentica, las afinidades florsticas y se hacen comparaciones de diversidad, distribucin y endemismo entre diferentes regiones neotropicales. Aunque el conocimiento de las Marcgraviaceae es an incompleto, ya es posible reconocer algunas caractersticas de su diversidad, distribucin y endemismo en el neotrpico: 1. Las Marcgraviaceae son ms diversas en la Amazonia Occidental, particularmente en la Amazonia colombiana, que en otras reas (e.g. sur de Mxico y sur de Brasil); 2. El porcentaje de especies endmicas de distribucin restringida es bajo (ca. 24%); 3. El porcentaje de endemismo a nivel de regiones fitogeogrficas es cercano al 50%; 4. La distribucin de las numerosas especies que cubren reas ms amplias en el neotrpico parece ser discontinua; 5. El mayor nmero de especies endmicas se encuentra en el noroeste de Sudamrica (Per y Colombia); 6. La historia geolgica de los Andes ha jugado un importante papel en la distribucin y evolucin de las Marcgraviaceae; por ejemplo, varios gneros muestran una clara tendencia a que la mayor parte de su diversidad especfica se concentre en Centroamrica (Norantea), la regin andina de Colombia (Marcgraviastrum) o la Amazonia occidental (Marcgravia); estas regiones corresponden a reas de edades geolgicas diferentes. Parece ser que las Marcgraviaceae se originaron en Sudamrica y desde all migraron a Centroamrica.
23217350|A revision of the genus Bauhinia (Cercideae, Caesalpinioideae, Fabaceae) from Argentina. The genus Bauhinia comprises around 250 species and its distribution is pantropical. Six entities recognized for Argentina are grouped in three seccions: I. Bauhinia secc. Benthamia Fortun. et Wund. with B. uruguayensis Benth.; II. Bauhinia secc. Schnella (Raddi) Benth. p. p. with B. microstachya (Raddi) Macbr. and III. Bauhinia secc. Pauletia (Cav.) DC with B. bauhinioides (Mart.) Macbr., B. argentinensis Burk., B. forficata Link subsp. pruinosa (Vog.) Fortun. et Wund. and B. mollis (Bong.) D. Dietr. var. notophila (Griseb.) Fortun. B. argentinensis Burk. var. megasiphon (Burk.) Fortun. nov. comb. is proposed, as well as B. candicans Benth. is reduced to the synonymy of B. forficata Link subsp. pruinosa (Vog.) Fortun. et Wund. nov. comb.; also the synonymy of each section are presented. The species are described indicating its synonymy and geographical distribution and a key for their differentiation is included.
23218065|The present work deals with chromosome studies in 16 taxa belonging to thirteen genera in five tribes - Astereae, Heliantheae. Senecioneae, Mutisieae and Lactuceae - of the Compositae; eleven of them have never been studied before. Astereae: Baccharis magellanica (n = ca. 9),Grindelia tehuelches (n = 6, n = 6 + IB), Grindelia sp. cfr. chiloensis (n = 6) and Haplopappus glutinosus (n = 5) seem to be diploid; H. prunelloides (n = 12 + IIB) is a tetraploid cytotype. Heliantheae: Polymnia connata (n = 16) and Spilanthes stolonifera var. pusilla (n = 13) are diploids but their basic numbers are probably derived. Senecioneae: Senecio bracteolatus has n = ca. 40 + IBand it is octoploid. Mutisieae: the endemic genera Ameghinoa, Brachyclados and Doniophyton have been studied for the first time. Ameghinoa patagonica (n = 26), Brachyclados lycioides (n = 23 + IIB), Doniophyton patagonicum (n = 24), Leuceria glacialis (n = 20), Chuquiraga erinacea (n = ca. 54), Mutisia decurrens (n = 24) and M. spinosa (n = 23) have high chromosome numbers and they are possible ancestral polyploids. Lactuceae: Agoseris coronopifolia is a diploid with n = 9. Studies of chromosome morphology and meiotic behaviour were possible in several species. The significance of the results is discussed in relation to previous counts in the family.
23223017|The following new combination is proposed: Proustia cuneifolia var. mendocina (Phil.) Ariza.
23228240|This work explores the trajectories of plant resources in Northwestern Argentina by means of material evidences of food processing, artefact production and psicoactive consumption. Evidences of useful plants from different archaeological sites located at Puna, Prepuna and Valliserrana areas, between ca. 6500-400 years BP., are analyzed. Every case study includes the milling and/or pounding of plant resources as one of several steps on their processing chains. This characteristic, particularly, allow us to identify the plant resources by means of their use residues (microscopic items such as microfossils) preserved on grinding tools surface (milling tools, mortars and pestles). Ethnographic, ethnoarchaeological and historical information is used to propose modalities for the processing of different plant resources related to production chains of food, psicoactive items and artefacts. En este trabajo se exploran las trayectorias de los recursos vegetales en el Noroeste argentino prehispnico a travs de evidencias materiales de elaboracin de alimentos, confeccin de tecnofacturas y consumo de psicoactivos. Con este objetivo, se analizan registros de plantas tiles procedentes de distintos sitios de la Puna, la Prepuna y del rea Valliserrana, abarcando el lapso ca. 6500-400 aos AP. Todos los casos analizados tienen en comn que en ciertos puntos de sus cadenas de procesamiento/consumo fueron sometidos a algn tipo de trituracin o molienda, lo cual ha permitido identificarlos a travs de sus residuos (indicadores microscpicos constituidos por microfsiles) contenidos en los artefactos empleados para esa tarea (molinos, morteros y manos). A la luz de la informacin etnogrfica, etnoarqueolgica e histrica se proponen modalidades de procesamiento de los recursos tiles y se los relaciona con cadenas de produccin de bienes durables y consumibles.
darwiniana.2.1.154|Species of
23225165|After the revision of the genus Lantana in Brazil by Silva (1999), Chamissos's concept of the genus was re-established. Therefore, the species of Lantana sect. Sarcolippia and all the species with fruit with two pyrenos were excluded from Lantana and they were transferred to the genus Lippia. Moreover, Lippia bahiensis was transferred to Lantana and new synonyms and a superfluous name were also added. Aps a reviso taxonmica das espcies brasileiras de Lantana por Silva (1999), foi restabelecido o conceito de Chamisso (1832) para o gnero. Assim as espcies de Lantana sect. Sarcolippia e todas as espcies com frutos com dois pirenos foram excludas de Lantana e transferidas para o gnero Lippia. Alm disso foram estabelecidos novos sinnimos e encontrado um nome suprfluo.
23223903|The flowers of Cucurbita maxima subsp. andreana are solitary. Staminate flowers can be found mainly on proximate portions of the branches while the pistillate are on distal portions. Each staminate flower has five monotecal stamens and ca. 90,000 pollen grains, while each pistillate one presents ca. 300 ovules. The axial nectary is symmetric, occupying an area of ca. 100 mm, positioned on the hypanthium, and supplied by phloem and xylem. The following morphological and anatomical parameters of the nectary were considered in order to compare both flower types: nectary surface; distribution, number and size of the stomata; number and diameter of the starch granules and cellular and nuclear diameter of the cells of nectariferous and non-nectariferous tissues. The non-secreting parenchyma showed the highest nuclear and cellular diameter but the lowest value of the nuclear/cell size relationship. No significant differences were found between the cells of the nectary epidermis and those of the secretory tissue. The nectary showed a higher number of starch granules in bud-stage compared to open flowerstage. This fact would indicates that there is a starch accumulation in the nectary until nectar secretion. The results obtained here allow us to relate morpho-anatomical traits with the nectar secretion pattern and with different aspects of the reproductive biology. Cucurbita maxima subsp. andreana tiene flores solitarias. Las estaminadas se hallan principalmente en las zonas proximales de las guas, mientras que las pistiladas estn sobre las zonas distales. Cada flor estaminada tiene cinco estambres monotcicos y ca. 90.000 granos de polen, mientras que cada flor pistilada contiene ca. 300 vulos. El nectario es axial, simtrico, ocupa un rea de ca. 100 mm, est irrigado por floema y xilema y se encuentra sobre el hipanto. Los parmetros morfolgicos y anatmicos del nectario que se compararon entre ambos tipos de flores fueron los siguientes: superficie del nectario, distribucin, nmero y tamao de los estomas, dimetro y nmero de grnulos de almidn y dimetro celular y nuclear en las clulas del tejido nectarfero y no nectarfero. El parnquima no secretor mostr los valores ms altos de dimetro nuclear y celular pero los ms bajos en la relacin tamao nuclear / tamao celular. No se encontraron diferencias significativas entre las clulas de la epidermis nectarfera y las del tejido secretor. En el nectario se observ un mayor nmero de grnulos de almidn para el estado de pimpollo que en las flores abiertas. Esta observacin indicara que se produce una acumulacin de almidn en el nectario antes de la secrecin del nctar. Los resultados obtenidos aqu nos permiten relacionar caracteres morfo-anatmicos con los patrones de secrecin del nctar y diferentes aspectos de la biologa reproductiva.
23612322|A taxonomical and nomenclatural revision of genus Glandularia from Chile is here presented. The genus is represented by 12 species and one variety, eight of these taxa are endemic to Chile. Species are distributed from the most septentrional area of the territory, Arica and Parinacota region, towards Los Lagos region, southwards. However, the highest species diversity is found in the central regions of Coquimbo, Valparaso and Metropolitana. Each one of the 12 species of Glandularia is here described and illustrated. Furthermore, 14 new synonyms and three new combinations are proposed: Glandularia landbecki, G. multiglandulosa, and G. ribifolia; 15 lectotypes are designated for: Erinus laciniatus, Verbena bella, V. berteroi, V. corymbosa, V. foetida, V. gynobasis, V. gynobasis var. strigosa, V. landbeckii, V. lipozygioides, V. multiglandulosa, V. porrigens, V. ribifolia, V. sulphurea var. fuscorubra, V. sulphurea var. pedunculata, and V. trachea; and one neotype is suggested for Verbena paulseni. Se presenta una revisin taxonmica y nomenclatural del gnero Glandularia para Chile. El gnero est representado por 12 especies y una variedad, ocho de estos taxones son endmicos de Chile. Las especies se distribuyen desde la zona ms septentrional del territorio, regin de Arica y Parinacota, hasta la regin de Los Lagos, al sur. Sin embargo la mayor diversidad especfica se encuentra en las regiones centrales, de Coquimbo, Valparaso y Metropolitana. Se describen e ilustran cada una de las 12 especies de Glandularia. A su vez, se proponen 14 nuevos sinnimos y tres nuevas combinaciones: Glandularia landbecki, G. multiglandulosa y G. ribifolia; se designan 15 lectotipos para: Erinus laciniatus, Verbena bella, V. berteroi, V. corymbosa, V. foetida, V. gynobasis, V. gynobasis var. strigosa, V. landbeckii, V. lipozygioides, V. multiglandulosa, V. porrigens, V. ribifolia, V. sulphurea var. fuscorubra, V. sulphurea var. pedunculata, y V. trachea; y se postula un neotipo para Verbena paulseni.
23222570|Carrying on the comparative and vegetative analysis of the American species of Salvinia, in this paper the authors study the holotype (sterile plants) and an additional fertile specimen of the little known Salvinia martynii Koop. They recognize it as a taxon very close to Salvinia auriculata Aublet and belonging to its complex, jointly with S. biloba Raddius, S. herzogii de la Sota and S. molesta Mitchell. Some morphological data  intercellular spaces in the floor between the two rows of the leaf air-chambers, veinlets and stoma like structures on the wall of the sporocarps, elongated tracheids supplying the placenta, branching of the microsporangial stalk are reported.
23216510|Pilgerodendron uviferum tiene 2n = 22 cromosomas metacntricos. En metafase mittica se observ que dos cromosomas poseen constricciones secundarias, uno de ellos tiene dos en un mismo brazo y el otro una sola, en ambos casos ocupan una posicin intersticial. Se discuten las relaciones citotaxonmicas de esta especie con las otras Cupresceas sudamericanas. Pilgerodendron uviferum has 2n = 22 metacentric chromosomes. Two chromosomes have secondary constrictions at mitotic metafase. One of them has two interstitial constrictions in one arm and in the other chromosome there is one interstitial too. The cytotaxonomic relations of this species with the other South American Cupresaceae are discussed.
23218908|The different elements of the secretory tissue of Ipomoea purpurea (L.) Roth (Convolvulaceae), and their distribution in the plant are described. Articulated non-anastomosing laticifers are present and also schizo-lysigenous glands, which secrete lipophilic substances and are only functional in the young parts of the plant. These glands, described here for the first time, remain as "residual vesicles" in the adult leaves.
23225156|In this contribution, the tribe Lantaneae is considered in a broad sense. The morphology and typology of inflorescences in Lantana, Neosparton, Xeroaloysia, Acantholippia, Aloysia, Phyla, Bouchea, Chascanum, Stachytarpheta, Lampaya and Diostea are analyzed; Lippia has been treated in a previous paper. Inflorescences in Lantaneae belong to the polytelic type. Florescences are, in most species, spikes or sometimes spike-like racemes, varying in arrangement, spacing and number of flowers. Floral bracteoles are only present in Bouchea and Chascanum Sect. Chascanum. The most frequent pattern of the compound inflorescence is a homothetic (di) pleiobotryum with specialized long and short paracladia. This pattern, characteristic of Lantana, Phyla and Xeroaloysia, is also present in most species of Aloysia and one species of Acantholippia. Two Aloysia species have a paniculiform heterothetic pleiobotryum. Bouchea, Chascanum and Stachytarpheta have similar inflorescence. Most of their species inflorescences are dichasially ramified heterothetic pleiobotrya. Neosparton, Lampaya, Diostea and Acantholippia generally have monobotrya, which it could be interpreted as a result of reductive tendency related to the xeromorfic syndrome of these genera. The results of this study are compared with several taxonomic systems proposed for the Tribe Lantaneae. La tribu Lantaneae es considerada aqu en un sentido amplio. Se analiza la morfologa y tipologa de las inflorescencias en Lantana, Neosparton, Xeroaloysia, Acantholippia, Aloysia, Phyla, Bouchea, Chascanum, Stachytarpheta, Lampaya, Diostea. El gnero Lippia fue tratado en una contribucin anterior. Las inflorescencias son del tipo politlico. Las florescencias son en la mayora de los casos espigas, a veces racimos espiciformes, variados en la disposicin, espaciamiento y nmero de flores; las bractolas florales estn presentes slo en las especies de Bouchea y Chascanum Sect. Chascanum. La forma mas frecuente de la inflorescencia compleja en este grupo es el (di)-pleiobotrio homottico disyunto que se presenta en Lantana, Phyla y Xeroaloysia, en la gran mayora de las especies de Aloysia y Lippia y en una especie de Acantholippia. Dos especies de Aloysia poseen pleiobotrios heterotticos paniculiformes. Bouchea, Chascanum y Stachytarpheta son afines en su arquitectura y las inflorescencias son en la mayora de las especies pleiobotrios acrotnicos, no truncados, dicasialmente ramificados. Neosparton, Lampaya, Diostea y Acantholippia son gneros de pocas especies, con adaptaciones xricas; las inflorescencias son en general monobotrios; esta forma de la inflorescencia puede considerarse, en estos casos, un carcter convergente que forma parte del sndrome xeromorfo y se origina por pauperizacin de una inflorescencia ms compleja. Se discuten los resultados obtenidos comparndolos con los diferentes sistemas propuestos para la delimitacin de la tribu Lantaneae.
23222531|Ultrastructure of Pleurosigma chilensis var. patagonica nov. var. (Bacillariophyceae). The genus Pleurosigma has a few planktonic species, with straight or almost straight outline and raphe. In this work we study a material with these characteristics from Caleta Valds (Chubut, Argentina), that we consider a new variety of Pleurosigma chilensis Hustedt et Krasske. Pleurosigma chilensis var. patagonica nov. var. differs from P. chilensis by its bigger size, with a wider range as regards the number of striae, a bigger and very conspicuous circular central area and bigger helictoglossae. Comparissons with the nearest species are established: P. simplex Ricard and P. intermedium Smith. The samples were cleaned with the conventional methods and analized with optical and electronic scanning microscopy.
23222973|Fifty-six taxa of fresh-water Cyanophyceae included in the families: Chroococcaceae, Chamaesiphonaceae, Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae, Rivulariaceae, Scytonemataceae and Stigonemataceae are identified. Fifteen species: Merismopedia aeruginea Brb., M. elabens (Brb.) Ktz., Hydrocoleum ravenelli Wolle, Phormidium bigranulatum Gard., Pseudoanabaena mucicola (Hub.-Pest. & Naum.) Bourr. emend. Chang, Microchaete calothrichoides Hansg., Anabaena aequalis Borge, A. hollerbachii Obuchova, Rivularia aquatica de Wild, R. beccariana (De Not.) Born. & Flah., R. manghinii Frmy, Scytonema ocellatum Lyngb., S. stuposum (Ktz.) Born., Stigonema informe Ktz., S. mesentericum Geitler; four varieties: Chamaesiphon incrustans Grun. var. angustus Behre, Microchaete tenera Thur. var. minor Holler., Anabaena flos-aquae (Lyngb.) Brb. var. minor W. West, Dichothrix orsiniana Born. et Flah. var. africana Frmy and one form: Tolypothrix byssoidea Hassall f.  saxicola Grun. are described and illustrated for the first time in Argentina and another fifteen are new for the Ro Negro Province.
darwiniana.3.1.96|
               
23215603|Plants of groundnut (A. hypogaea L.) cv. "Colorado Manfredi" were sprayed with various concentration of "Dalapn" (2,2-dichloropropionic acid). This compound is masculine gametocide, but also produces a drastic reduction in the number of flowers. Its use to substitute the manual castration is discussed in this paper.
23222990|The Argentinian species of Cortaderia are listed with a key to their identification; their distribution and characteristics of their breeding systems are discussed. The genus is represented by six species viz C. araucana Stapf, C. jubata (Lemoine ex Carrire) Stapf, C. pilosa (D' Urv.) Hack., C. rudiuscula Stapf, C. selloana (Schult. et Schult. f.) Asch. et Graebn. and C. speciosa (Nees) Stapf. Cortaderia araucana var. fuenzalidae Acevedo is treated as a synonym of C. araucana and C. pilosa var. minima (Conert) Nicora of C. pilosa. Further, C. atacamensis (Phil.) Pilg., listed by Acevedo for Argentina is unknown here. Gynodioecism very rare in the Poaceae, is the basic breeding system in Cortaderia, where pistillate (male-sterile) plants interbreed with those with perfect (hermaphrodite) flowers. Three Argentinian species have this system C. pilosa (4x), C. araucana (8x) and C. selloana (8x). Several species in sect. Cortaderia consist exclusively of apomictic plants with pistillate flowers only C. jubata (12x), C. rudiuscula (12x) and C. speciosa occur here.
23222571|The presence of Bomarea edulis (Tussac) Herbert is confirmed for NE Argentina (Misiones province). The species was once previously cited for Argentina in documented form under the name Bomarea spectabilis Schenk, which is a synonym. Alstroemeria psittacina Lehmann is cited for the Argentine native flora; before this investigation it was only recorded as a cultivated plant.
23211705|I) En Argentina y Paraguay habitan, segn el material visto hasta ahora, las siguientes especies y variedades: 1. Capsicum chacoense nov. sp. 2. Capsicum chacoense var. tomentosum nov. var. 3. Capsicum eximium nov. sp. 4. Capsicum microcarpum Cav. 5. Capsicum microcarpum Cav. var. tomensotum Chodat et Hassler. 6. Capsicum Schottianum Sendtner. II) Hasta ahora se confundi bajo el nombre de C. microcarpum DC. a 2 especies bien distintas: C. microcarpum Cav., y C. chacoense nov. sp. III) C. microcarpum Cav. es una especie que habita Brasil, Bolivia, Paraguay y Argentina; sin embargo, Cavanilles sostuvo, en la descripcin original, que las semillas de su ejemplar procedan de Cuba. Opino que puede tratarse de un error; al menos, segn los numerosos ejemplares cubanos que pude revisar, el aj de Cuba y de las Antillas en general, pertenece a C. frutescens L. var. baccatum (L.) Irish, planta que, no obstante ser muy afn con C. microcarpum, presenta una serie de pequeas diferencias que permiten mantenerlas separadas. IV) Capsicum microcarpum var. glabrescens Hassler debe sinonimizarse con la variedad tpica. V) Capsicum Schottianum es una especie del Paraguay, sur de Brasil y Misiones, que aun no haba sido citada para nuestro territorio; en la flora paraguaya se la confunda con C. campylopodium Sendtner, especie brasilea.
23224219|The name Rhynchospora rostrata has been applied to two different species of Rhynchospora (subgn. Haplostylis, sect. Longirostres) from South America. True R. rostrata is known only from Brazil (Distrito Federal, Gois, Minas Gerais). The correct name for the other species going under the name R. rostrata is R. organensis, and it is known from Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. R. organensis returns to the status of species after being considered as R. corymbosa var. organensis. R. corymbosa, R. rostrata and R. organensis can be distinguished using inflorescence and achene characters, and a key to differentiate them is provided. R. rostrata and R. organensis are also described and illustrated. El nombre Rhynchospora rostrata ha sido aplicado a dos especies diferentes de Rhynchospora (subgn. Haplostylis, sect. Longirostres), de Amrica del Sur. R. rostrata es conocida solo para Brasil (Distrito Federal, Gois, Minas Gerais). El nombre correcto para R. rostrata auct. non Lindm. es R. organensis, la que se extiende por Argentina, Brasil, Paraguay y Uruguay. R. organensis recupera su rango especfico despus de ser considerada como R. corymbosa var. organensis. R. corymbosa, R. rostrata y R. organensis se distinguen por caracteres de sus inflorescencias y aquenios; se proporciona una clave para identificarlas. R. rostrata y R. organensis son descriptas e ilustradas.
23223006|The lichen species Ephebe ocellata Henssen is reported from South America and Lecidea plana (Lahm) Nyl. from Argentina, both for the first time. New localities are reported for the following species: Acarospora schleicheri (Ach.) Massal., Candelariella vitellina (Ehrh.) Mller Arg., Dimerella lutea (Dickson) Trevisan, Lecanora rupicola (L.) Zahlbr., Rhizocarpon geminatum Krber y Rhizocarpon grande (Flrke ex Flotow) Arnold which widen the knowledge of their geographic distribution. The morpho-anatomical characters and chemical reactions are given.
23227139|Materials from Argentina of adventitious species of Viola were examined and four species were confirmed: V. arvensis, V. metajaponica, V. odorata and V. tricolor. V. metajaponica is lectotypified, and the identity of V. japonica is discussed. A key to identify the species, their descriptions, illustrations, ecology and geographic distribution are given. Se revisan materiales de entidades adventicias de Viola en Argentina y se comprueba la presencia de 4 especies diferentes: V. arvensis, V. metajaponica, V. odorata y V. tricolor. V. metajaponica es lectotipificada y se discute la identidad de V. japonica. Las especies son descriptas e ilustradas, y se provee una clave diacrtica, adems de datos de ecologa y distribucin geogrfica.
23226849|This paper includes 10 new reports for the genus Digitaria: D. abyssinica, D. aequiglumis var. aequiglumis, D. lanuginosa, D. nuda, and D. venezuelae var. fendleri are reported for the first time in Panama; D. argillacea var. nulliseta and D. fuscescens in Honduras; D. sacchariflora in El Salvador and Guatemala; D. sanguinalis in Costa Rica; and D. similis in El Salvador, Guatemala and Panama. Six of these taxa are new reports from Central America: D. aequiglumis var. aequiglumis, D. argillacea var. nulliseta, D. lanuginosa, D. sacchariflora, D. similis y D. venezuelae var. fendleri. Four species are excluded from Central America. Panicum gavanianum is here synonymized under Digitaria similis, a new report from Per, and Digitaria clavitricha is synonymized under D. venezuelae var. fendleri. Four species are illustrated for the first time. This paper includes synonymy, iconography, geographical distribution and habitat, vernacular names, specimens examined and observations. A key for the identification of taxa is also provided. Se adicionan 10 nuevas citas: Digitaria abyssinica, D. aequiglumis var. aequiglumis, D. lanuginosa, D. nuda y D. venezuelae var. fendleri en Panam; D. argillacea var. nulliseta y D. fuscescens en Honduras; D. sacchariflora en El Salvador y Guatemala; D. sanguinalis en Costa Rica; y D. similis en El Salvador, Guatemala y Panam. Seis de estos taxones constituyen nuevas citas en Amrica Central: D. aequiglumis var. aequiglumis, D. argillacea var. nulliseta, D. lanuginosa, D. sacchariflora, D. similis y D. venezuelae var. fendleri. Se excluyen cuatro especies de Amrica Central. Se sinonimiza a Panicum gavanianum bajo Digitaria similis, nueva cita para Per, y Digitaria clavitricha bajo D. venezuelae var. fendleri. Cuatro especies son ilustradas en forma completa por primera vez. El trabajo incluye, para cada entidad, la sinonimia, iconografa, distribucin geogrfica y hbitat, usos, nombres vulgares, exsiccata y observaciones. Se provee tambin una clave para la identifcacin de los taxones.
90005706|The scientific correspondence of the Argentine botanist Lorenzo Raimundo Parodi (1895-1966) includes 5280 letters interchanged between 1916 and 1966 with 1257 correspondents from 50 countries. Parodis correspondence is comparatively rich in copies of his own letters, and therefore it offers both an insight into his personal views and a record of the ways in which he communicated with an extensive network of relationships. The article first describes the structure and formation dynamics of the documentary corpus, then analyzes in detail the thirty epistolary exchanges in which Parodis participation (as measured by the number of his own letters) was maximal. Also, a full index of the correspondence is added as an electronic supplement. In spite of Parodis various academic interests and of the considerable diversity of his partners, the correspondence unequivocally reflects that research on grasses was the axis that organized Parodis scientific life. The central position he occupied in Argentinas botany during the first two thirds of the past century, along with his international reputation as agrostologist, makes his correspondence a repository of manuscripts by virtually every significant member of these two corporations that were active during Parodis life. This article makes a contribution to the scarce bibliography on epistolary exchanges of Argentine scientists, and is apparently the first edited correspondence of an Argentine botanist.
23225160|The fruit and seed production of I. purpurea were estimated with respect to different pollination treatments (autonomous self-, hand self-, and hand cross-pollination treatments) during two reproductive seasons. Seed mass, fruit mass, and seed number per fruit were measured for each fruit and compared between treatments and seasons to evaluate fruit quality. The results obtained for Argentinean populations confirm that this species is self-compatible and capable of producing fruits by autonomous selfing. Reproductive success of naturally pollinated plants was high (> 50%). A ripened fruit weights 0.1 g and contains 4-6 seeds which represent ca. 60% of the total fruit mass. Fruit and seed traits were not significantly different between pollination treatments and between years. In addition, fruits and seeds produced by natural pollination were compared between different flower color morphs. No significant differences were detected, with the exception of one morph (pink flowers) which produced fruits with a slight lower number of seeds than the fruits of the other morphs (white or purple flowers). The main flower visitors were different species of Hymenoptera, which can be considered as pollinators. Other flower visitors were recorded but they do not seem to make a significant contribution to transfer pollen. Se evalu la produccin de frutos y semillas en Ipomea purpurea en relacin con diferentes tratamientos de polinizacin (autopolinizacin espontnea, autopolinizacin manual y polinizacin cruzada), durante dos temporadas reproductivas. La masa de los frutos, de las semillas y el nmero de semillas por fruto, se compararon entre tratamientos y entre aos, a fin de detectar diferencias en la calidad de los frutos. Los resultados para las poblaciones estudiadas en el centro de Argentina confirman que se trata de una especie autocompatible y con la capacidad de producir frutos por autogamia espontnea. Los valores de xito reproductivo mediados por polinizacin natural fueron altos (> 50%). Un fruto maduro pesa 0,1 g y contiene 4-6 semillas; la masa del total de semillas producidas por un fruto representa alrededor del 60% de la masa total del fruto. Los caracteres de los frutos y las semillas no presentaron diferencias significativas entre aos o tratamientos. Asimismo, se compararon los frutos provenientes de polinizacin natural entre los individuos con distinto color de flor. En general, tampoco se encontraron diferencias significativas. Slo los frutos provenientes de flores rosa presentaron un nmero significativamente menor de semillas que los frutos de los otros morfotipos florales (blanco o prpura). El grupo principal de visitantes florales fue el de los Himenpteros, que pueden ser considerados polinizadores. Se registraron otros grupos de visitantes florales que no tendran un papel preponderante en la transferencia de polen.
23228247|Eight regions of native forests have been recognized in Argentina: Chaco forest, Misiones rain forest, Tucumn-Bolivia forest (Yunga), Andean-Patagonian forest, "Monte", "Espinal", fluvial forests of the Paraguay, Paran and Uruguay rivers, and "Talares" in the Pampean region. We reviewed the available data concerning biodiversity of saprotrophic micro-fungi (anamorphic Ascomycota) in those native forests from Argentina, from the earliest collections, done by Spegazzini, to present. Among the above mentioned regions most studies on saprotrophic micro-fungi concentrates on the Andean-Patagonian forest, the fluvial forests of the Paraguay, Paran and Uruguay rivers and the "Talares", in the Pampean region. There are only a few records of fungal species in other native forests. No record of anamorphic species of Ascomycota was previously available for "Monte" forests. From a comprehensive bibliographic review, a total of 344 species were registered, of which 81 (23,5%) are new species.This work manifests the lack of explorations in important areas of the country, and demonstrates the need to increase those studies. En Argentina se reconocen ocho regiones de bosques nativos: bosque Andino-Patagnico, Talares de la Regin Pampeana, Parque Chaqueo, Selva Misionera, Selva Tucumano-Boliviana, Monte, Espinal y Bosques Pluviales de los ros Paraguay, Paran y Uruguay. El objetivo de este trabajo ha sido reunir y revisar la informacin sobre la biodiversidad de microhongos saprtrofos (Ascomycetes anamrficos) citados en los bosques nativos de Argentina, desde las primeras colecciones de Spegazzini hasta el presente. De las regiones anteriormente mencionadas los bosques Andino-Patagnicos, Bosques Pluviales de los ros Paraguay, Paran y Uruguay y recientemente los Talares de la provincia de Buenos Aires son aquellos donde se han realizado ms exploraciones de microhongos saprtrofos. Por otro lado se obtuvieron muy pocos registros de especies fngicas del resto de los bosques; para la regin de Monte en particular no se han realizado hasta el presente estudios de hongos anamrficos, por lo cual no se cuenta con registros de especies anamrficas de Ascomycetes. Como resultado de una revisin bibliogrfica exhaustiva, se registraron 344 especies, de las cuales 81 (23,5%) son nuevas especies. Este trabajo pone de manifiesto la falta de exploraciones de reas de importancia en nuestro pas, y muestra la necesidad de incrementar estos estudios.
23217343|A new species of Aphelandra (Acanthaceae) from Argentina. A new species of Aphelandra from the province of Salta, Parque Nacional El Rey: A. lilacina Ezcurra, is described and illustrated; the differences with A. kolobantha Lindau, A. lyrata Nees and A. hieronymi Griseb. are discussed.
23216540|This paper deals novelties of the genus Astragalus (Leguminosae-Galeguea): A. fabrisii Gmez-Sosa is considered a new species, and A. asplundii Johnston, A. uniflorus DC., and A. bellus (Kuntze) Fries, are recorded for the first time in Argentina. Each species is described and illustrated.
darwiniana.2.2.197|Based on morphological, anatomical, and phylogenetic studies within subfamily Allioideae, a new circumscription of tribe Leucocoryneae is presented including six American genera:
90005720|The
23612312|Nassella is an American genus which, according to its current circumscription, includes about 116 species, distributed from Canada to Argentina and Chile. It is characterized by its florets with the lemma conspicuously convolute, with an apical conspicuous or inconspicuous crown, and the palea shorter than the lemma; furthermore, the lemma presents a distinctive epidermal pattern. The aim of this work is to provide a synopsis of the 99 species of Nassella which grow in southern South America, comprising Argentina, Bolivia, southern Brasil, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay. A key to identify the species, mainly based on floret characters, is given. For each species, the current synonyms, geographic distribution, phenology, observations, and illustrations are presented. Nassella barbinodis is accepted and, Nassella linearifolia is a new synonym of Nassella caespitosa. Lectotypes are here designated for the following taxa: Danthonia nardoides, Piptochaetium collinum, P. gibbum, P. laevissimum, Stipa arechavaletae, S. barbinodis, S. breviculmis, S. calchaquia, S. carettei, S. clarazii var. bulbosa, S. curicoana, S. debilis var. papillosa, S. duriuscula, S. hispida, S. hyalina, S. julietti, S. longiglumis, S. macrathera, S. manicata var. media, S. mendocina, S. pratensis, S. pseudopampagrandensis, S. rupestris, S. tenuis, S. trachysperma, S. trichocaulos, and S. uspallatensis. A neotype is designated for S. filiculmis. Nassella es un gnero americano que, de acuerdo a su actual circunscripcin, incluye unas 116 especies, distribuidas desde Canad hasta Argentina y Chile. Se caracteriza por sus antecios con la lema notablemente convoluta, con corona apical conspicua o inconspicua y la plea menor que la lema; asimismo, la lema presenta un patrn epidrmico distintivo. El objetivo de este trabajo es realizar una sinopsis de las 99 especies de Nassella que crecen en la regin austral de Amrica del Sur, comprendiendo la Argentina, Bolivia, sur de Brasil, Chile, Paraguay y Uruguay. Se proporciona una clave para la identificacin de las especies, sobre la base principalmente de caracteres del antecio. Para cada especie se brinda la sinonimia actualizada, distribucin geogrfica, datos fenolgicos, observaciones e ilustraciones. Se acepta a Nassella barbinodis y Nassella linearifolia es un nuevo sinnimo de Nassella caespitosa. Se designan lectotipos para los siguientes taxones: Danthonia nardoides, Piptochaetium collinum, P. gibbum, P. laevissimum, Stipa arechavaletae, S. barbinodis, S. breviculmis, S. calchaquia, S. carettei, S. clarazii var. bulbosa, S. curicoana, S. debilis var. papillosa, S. duriuscula, S. hispida, S. hyalina, S. julietii, S. longiglumis, S. macrathera, S. manicata var. media, S. mendocina, S. pratensis, S. pseudopampagrandensis, S. rupestris, S. tenuis, S. trachysperma, S. trichocaulos y S. uspallatensis. Se designa un neotipo para S. filiculmis.
23228364|Two new species of Andropogon (Poaceae) from Cuba, A. ekmanii and A. canaliglumis, are described and illustrated. Both belong to the "A. lateralis" species complex (sect. Leptopogon Stapf) and are the first members of this complex endemic to the West Indies. Dos nuevas especies de Andropogon (Poaceae) de Cuba, A. ekmanii y A. canaliglumis, son descritas e ilustradas. Ambas pertenecen al complejo "A. lateralis" (sect. Leptopogon Stapf) y son los primeros miembros del complejo endmicos de las Antillas Occidentales.
23223847|A floristic study on 15 physiographic landscapes in the south of the Colombian Amazon was carried out. In 2.8 ha, 593 vascular plants (dbh  10 cm) were found, belonging to 254 genera distributed among 65 families. Nine families represent 52 % of the total number of species and comprise 65 % of the total number of individuals. The richest families are Fabaceae (78 species, 13%), Chrysobalanaceae (42 species, 7%), Euphorbiaceae (29 species, 5%), Myristicaceae (28 species, 5%), Burseraceae (27 species, 4.5%), Sapotaceae (27 species, 4.5%), Lauraceae (26 species, 4.4%), Moraceae (24 species, 4.1%) and Lecythidaceae (23 species, 4%). The richest genera are Licania (20 species), Protium (18 species), Inga (16 species) and Eschweilera (14 species). Myristicaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Moraceae and Lauraceae are dominant and abundant on well drained soils, while Chrysobalanaceae, Sapotaceae and Sterculiaceae are important families in periodically flooded landscapes. Monopteryx uaucu Spruce ex Benth. (Fabaceae) and Eschweilera coriacea (A. DC.) S. A. Mori (Lecythidaceae) are the most widely distributed species in different landscapes. Plant formations on plio-pleistocenic dissected plains of curved surfaces with acute and rounded summits possess the highest floristic richness; while alluvial plains with intermediate flood level by amazonian rivers show the lowest floristic species richness. Disturbance of the mature forests is caused by geomorphological dynamics, high winds, instability of the river courses, and by human action over thousands of years. Se llev a cabo un estudio florstico en 15 paisajes fisiogrficos del sur de la Amazonia colombiana. En 2,8 ha se registraron 593 especies de plantas vasculares (DAP  10 cm), pertenecientes a 254 gneros y 65 familias. Nueve familias representan el 52% del nmero total de especies y, a la vez, constituyen el 65% del total de los individuos. Las familias ms ricas son Fabaceae (78 especies, 13%), Chrysobalanaceae (42 especies, 7%), Euphorbiaceae (29 especies, 5%), Myristicaceae (28 especies, 5%), Burseraceae (27 especies, 4.5%), Sapotaceae (27 especies, 4.5%), Lauraceae (26 especies, 4.4%), Moraceae (24 especies, 4.1%) y Lecythidaceae (23 especies, 4%). Los gneros ms diversos son Licania (20 especies), Protium (18 especies), Inga (16 especies) y Eschweilera (14 especies). Las Myristicaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Moraceae y Lauraceae son dominantes y abundantes en suelos bien drenados, mientras que las Chrysobalanaceae, Sapotaceae y Sterculiaceae son ms importantes en los paisajes con inundacin peridica. Las especies Monopteryx uaucu Spruce ex Benth. (Fabaceae) y Eschweilera coriacea (A. DC.) S. A. Mori (Lecythidaceae) son las ms ampliamente distribuidas en los diferentes paisajes. Las formaciones vegetales ubicadas en las planicies divididas plio-pleistocnicas de superficies onduladas con cimas agudas y redondeadas poseen la mayor riqueza especfica; mientras que las formaciones con menor riqueza florstica se presentan en las llanuras aluviales de ros amazonenses con inundacin de aguas intermedias. La perturbacin de los bosques maduros del rea est dada por la dinmica geomorfolgica, los vientos huracanados, la inestabilidad de los cursos de los ros y por la intervencin antrpica milenaria.
23216544|Se describen en este trabajo los caracteres antomo-sistemticos foliares de las 9 especies sudamericanas de Nothofagus. Las 3 especies perennifolias son anatmicamente similares no slo por sus caracteres epidrmicos sino tambin por el grado de esclerificacin que presentan. Son semejantes asimismo N. glauca y N. obliqua, particularmente por la naturaleza papilosa de las epidermis. Otras especies poseen significativas diferencias interespecficas como N. alpina y N. antarctica, esta ltima con conspicuos surcos en las paredes internas de las clulas vecinas de los estomas. The systematic anatomical leaf characters of the 9 south american species of Nothofagus are described. The 3 evergreen species are anatomically similar due to their distinctive epidermal characters and the scleromorphic features present in them. N. glauca y N. obliqua are also similar on account of the papillose nature of their epidermises. Some of the other species possess significatives interespecific differences, as N. alpina and N. antarctica, the last with conspicuous internal furrowed walls in the neighbouring cells of the stomata.
23218074|Meiotic chromosome numbers and observations were made in 15 taxa belonging to 10 different genera of Compositae. The numbers include counts in 12 taxa that have never been investigated cytologically: Chaptalia arechavaletai (n = ca. 50), Mutisia acuminata var. paucijuga (n = 26), Mutisia ledifolia (n = 26), Holocheilus brasiliensis (n = 11), Jungia pauciflora (n = 21), Trixis grisebachii (n = 27), Senecio breviscapus (n = ca. 20), S. grisebachii (n = 20) y S. pampae (n = 20), Pterocaulon virgatum (n = 10), Tessaria ambigua (n = 10 + 1  2 IB), and T. integrifolia (n = 10 + 1  2 IB). C. arechavaletai would be near dodecaploid level on the basis of x = 8, the number n = ca. 50 being the highest so far reported for the genus. The basic number x = 21 reported here for Jungia is a new one for the genus. In Mikania micrantha n = 19 was found. Other authors have found for this tropical and subtropical species n = 20, 19, ca. 19 and 17, which suggests an aneuploid series or the presence of accesory chromosomes. The significance of other results are also discussed in relation to previous studies in the family.
darwiniana.2.1.5|Since 1965, El Palmar National Park, Entre Ros, protects the largest remnant of
23223194|Chromosome counts and meiotic chromosome behavior confirmed previous results for both species. One accession of Panicum dichotomiflorum Michaux, from Corrientes, Argentina, had 2n=4x=36 chromosomes with regular meiotic behavior. Three accessions of Paspalum fasciculatum Willd. ex Fluegge, two from Mato Grosso state, Brazil, and one from Chaco province, Argentina, had 2n=2x=20 chromosomes. This is the first report of the method of reproduction for both species. Embryological studies and observations on flowering habits and seed production indicated that Panicum dichotomiflorum, which is an annual species, reproduced sexually. Its floral arrangement, the flowering habit, and the lack of a genetic barrier to prevent self-fertilization suggested that the species reproduced mainly by autogamy. The three accessions of the perennial species Paspalum fasciculatum were sexual and self-incompatible. Since most diploid sexual self-incompatible species of the genus Paspalum usually have an apomictic tetraploid co-specific counterpart, it is possible that apomictic tetraploid races of Paspalum fasciculatum may also exist.
23218123|Pollen morphology of Huarpea and its relationships with Barnadesia (Mutisieae, Compositae). A comparative study between the pollen morphology of Huarpea andina Cabr. and Barnadesia odorata Griseb. has been undertaken, using the photonic, interference contrast and scanning electron microscopes. The results confirm the great similarity in the pollen morphology of both genera, already pointed out by Cabrera. He consideres this similarity to be the clarest proof of the relationships between both taxa. This affinity is evident not only in the general morphological pattern, but also in exine stratification and ultrarelief. The pollen of Huarpea andina is tricolporate, suboblate, of 47  54 m of polar and equatorial diameter respectively; its exine is ornamented with an elaborate system of inerm crests which circumscribe several alveoli or lacunae, typical of lophate grains.
23218913|A taxonomic revision of Tragia (Euphorbiaceae) for Argentina and neighboring areas. A new taxonomic treatment of the genus Tragia from Argentina and neighboring areas is provided. At present 15 taxa are recognized and four of them are recorded for the first time for Argentine: T. sellowiana (Klotzsch ex Baillon) Muell. Arg., T. bahiensis Muell. Arg., T. friesii Pax et K. Hoffman and T. uberabana Muell. Arg. var. discolor Chodat et Hassler. The history and systematic relationships within the genus and with other genera are presented. In this paper a new infrageneric classification is proposed. Three section are accepted for South America: Bia (Klotzsch) Muell. Arg., Leptorhachis (Klotzsch) Muell. Arg. and Tragia. Section Bia is recorded for the first time for Argentina; Section Leptorhachis, wich had been reduced to synonymy is rehabilited in this paper. According to this revision, Section Tragia includes Section Ratiga and Section Leucandra as synonyms. The most important morphological and anatomical features of the accepted taxa are discussed. Morphology of the inflorescence has been analized with the aim of establish its typology. A scanning electron microscopic study of the seed coat structure has been made in order to elucidate differences among the species. The taxonomic treatment includes a description of the genus, keys to the sections, species and varieties. All the taxa are described and illustrated. Data of the geographical distribution as well as a list of the selected herbarium material are given and 9 species and 14 varieties are reduced to synonymy for the first time.
23225120|Chromosome numbers of 16 Chilean taxa of vascular plants were studied utilizing root-tip mitotic metaphases. New records for the Flora of Chile are: Chaptalia exscapa var. chilensis (2n= c. 94), Orites myrtoidea (2n= 28), Proustia cuneifolia (2n= 52), Rytidosperma quirihuense (2n= 24) and Senecio subumbellatus (2n= 80). Se entregan datos citolgicos del nmero cromosmico diploide de 16 especies de la flora vascular de Chile, utilizndose material de races provenientes de plntulas. Nuevos registros para la flora de Chile son: Chaptalia exscapa var. chilensis (2n= ca. 94), Orites myrtoidea (2n= 28), Proustia cuneifolia (2n= 52), Rytidosperma quirihuense (2n= 24), y Senecio subumbellatus (2n= 80).
41825703|During a review of herbaria in Argentina we found a specimen of Phoradendron rusbyi, which represents the third collection of the species and a new record for the flora of Argentina. This species is a little aphyllous plant, being a member of the group of hyperparasitic mistletoes, and was found in a mixed collection, parasitizing Phoradendron bathyoryctum. A morphological description of the species is provided, and its inclusion in Phoradendron confirmed. Durante la revisin de herbarios en la Argentina se encontr un ejemplar de Phoradendron rusbyi, que representa la tercera coleccin de esta especie y una nueva cita para la flora de este pas. Esta especie es una planta pequea y fila, miembro del grupo de hiperparsitas, que fue encontrada en una coleccin mixta, parasitando Phoradendron bathyoryctum. Se incluye una descripcin morfolgica de la especie y se confirma su inclusin en el gnero Phorandendron.
23227932|Four species of Saprolegniales were isolated from three aquatic environments of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Scoliolegnia asterophora, Aphanomyces laevis, A. stellatus and A. parasiticus are reported for the first time for Argentina. Three of them were found as saprotrophs on floating organic matter (vegetative remains) and water samples, and the fourth one, as a parasite on the hyphae of an unidentified species of the genus Achlya. Cuatro especies de Saprolegniales fueron encontradas en ambientes acuticos de los partidos de La Plata y Ensenada (charcas semipermanentes, arroyo Las Caas y zanjn Los Helechos), provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Scoliolegnia asterophora, Aphanomyces laevis, A. stellatus y A. parasiticus, son citadas por primera vez para la Argentina. Tres de ellas fueron encontradas como saprtrofas en muestras de materia orgnica flotante (restos vegetales) y agua, y la cuarta, como parsita en hifas de una especie no identificada del gnero Achlya.
darwiniana.3.1.27|In this study we update the taxonomy and distribution of the Osmundaceae, a family of ferns that inhabits the subtropical forest and wetlands of Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. Currently, the family comprises four genera, two of them, with one species each, are represented in the study region.
23216536|Karyotypes of 3 Chilean and 2 Argentine species of the genus Tristagma are described. T. bivalve, T. berteri and T. patagonicum are diploids (2 n = 8), T. nivale is tetraploid (4 n = 16) and T. sp., is hexaploid (6 n = 24). The basic chromosome number in this genus is n = 4, a basic karyotype composed by one long metacentric, two medium metacentrics and one medium acrocentric. The genus Tristagma and their close relatives Nothoscordum and Ipheion are easily delimited by the differences in their basic numbers and karyotypes.
23211597|El autor publica una nueva serie de casos teratolgicos en Gramneas, varios de los cuales no han sido citados con anterioridad. Estos casos suman nueve y se estudian en el orden siguiente: 1. Cynosurus echinatus L., filodia; 2. Eleusine indica (L.) Gaertn., filodia; 3. Festuca purpurascens Banks et Sol., filodia, bracteodia de rganos sexuales y apogamia; 4. Bromus unioloides (Willd.) H. B. K., apogamia; 5. Festuca Hieronymi Hack., apogamia; 6. Melica papilionacea L., proliferacin mediana y axilar y filodia; 7. Eragrostis virescens Presl., proliferacin mediana y axilar y filodia; 8. Ichnanthus pallens (Swartz) Munro, aumento del nmero de glumas y filodia; 9. Phleum pratense L., torsin de la inflorescencia. De todos estos fenmenos slo eran conocidos: filodia en Cynosurus echinatus y proliferacin y filodia en Eragrostis virescens.
23227998|Continuing with the revision of the genus Prestonia (Apocynoideae, Echiteae), the following synonyms are proposed: Prestonia finitima (P. annularis), P. hassleri (P. cyaniphylla), P. perplexa (P. didyma), P. lindmanii (P. lagoensis), and P. pickelii (P. quinquangularis). Lectotypes for the following taxa are designated: Echites denticulatus, E. didymus, E. suberosus, Haemadictyon gaudichaudii, H. ovatum, Prestonia finitima, and P. marginata. Para continuar con la revisin del gnero Prestonia (Apocynoideae, Echiteae), se proponen los siguientes sinnimos: Prestonia finitima (P. annularis), P. hassleri (P. cyaniphylla), P. perplexa (P. didyma), P. lindmanii (P. lagoensis) y P. pickelii (P. quinquangularis). Se designan lectotipos para los siguientes taxones: Echites denticulatus, E. didymus, E. suberosus, Haemadictyon gaudichaudii, H. ovatum, Prestonia finitima y P. marginata.
41825708|On the basis of an ethnoarchaeological study of post-harvest quinoa processing in the Lpez Altiplano (Potos, Bolivia), some diagnostic traits of each activity and methods of processing dried grains are established. The potential of these observations to investigate the ancient practices of processing and consumption of this pseudocereal is illustrated by analyzing grains recovered from four archaeological sites near Salar de Uyuni. The quinoas examined were at different stages of processing; some showed no traces of saponin extraction, suggesting that they had been stored immediately after harvest, while others exhibited saponification traces comparable to those observed in current contexts, suggesting that they had been prepared for consumption. A partir del estudio etnoarqueolgico del tratamiento post-cosecha de granos de quinoa entre los habitantes del altiplano de Lpez (Potos, Bolivia), se describen algunos rasgos diagnsticos de cada actividad y forma de procesamiento observables en los granos desecados. El potencial de estas observaciones para investigar las antiguas prcticas de procesamiento y consumo de este pseudocereal es ilustrado mediante el anlisis de granos recuperados en cuatro sitios arqueolgicos cercanos al Salar de Uyuni. Las quinoas examinadas se encontraban en distintas etapas de procesamiento; algunas no haban sido an desaponificadas, por lo que inferimos que haban sido almacenadas inmediatamente despus de la cosecha, mientras que otras muestras exhiban rastros de desaponificacin comparables a los observados en contextos actuales, sugiriendo su preparacin para distintos modos de consumo.
23226697|Roupala sessiliflora, a new species endemic to Costa Rica is described and illustrated. This new taxon is somewhat related to R. mexicana, but differs by its sessile flowers and shorter tepals. In addition, it is similar to R. cordifolia, but R. sessiliflora differs by its broadly elliptic to obovate leaf blades, cuneate at the base, sessile flowers, and shorter tepals. Roupala sessiliflora, una nueva especie endmica de Costa Rica es descripta e ilustrada. Este nuevo taxn se encuentra relacionado con R. mexicana y con R. cordifolia de las que se separa por sus flores ssiles y tpalos ms pequeos. Asimismo se diferencia de esta ltima por sus hojas anchamente elpticas a obovadas, con la base cuneada.
23228356|This investigation analyses the vegetable resources used for tecnofactures during the prehistoric past, based on remains of artefacts recovered at the archaeological site "Punta de la Pea 4", layers 0 - 4, dated to ca. 3900  500 years BP. The site is located in the proximity of the village of "Antofagasta de la Sierra", Catamarca, Argentina (26 11' 16" S and 67 20' 51.3" W) at 3650 m altitude. The site locality belongs to the Southern Argentinean Puna and, according to the environmental characteristics, it belongs to the Salty Puna. The particular objectives were to identify plant species used as raw material, their collection area, and possible use of each artefact considering the recovered context at the archaeological site and the ethnobotanical information. Mobility and socio-economic exchanges taking into account the recovered non-local plant species is also discussed. The comparative anatomical and morphological analysis of present day and archaeological plants revealed that the species used for tecnofactures belong to the families Asteraceae, Cactaceae, Cyperaceae, Fabaceae, Juncaceae, Poaceae, Solanaceae and Typhaceae. Possible collection areas for the archaeological species suggest that long distance human migrations decreased during the Late Holocene, being replaced by itineraries of ruled mobility related to pastoralism. El objetivo de esta investigacin fue analizar el uso de los recursos vegetales para confeccionar tecnofacturas en el pasado prehistrico. Se estudiaron los artefactos recuperados en el sitio arqueolgico Punta de la Pea 4, capas 0 - 4, datadas entre ca. 3900  500 aos AP. El sitio est ubicado en las proximidades de la localidad de Antofagasta de la Sierra, Catamarca, Argentina (26 11' 16" S y 67 20' 51.3" O), a una altura de 3650 m s. m. Esta localidad pertenece a la Puna meridional y de acuerdo con las caractersticas ambientales, se integra a la Puna salada. Los objetivos especficos fueron identificar las especies vegetales utilizadas como materia prima y su rea de procedencia, as como tambin evaluar el posible uso de cada uno de los artefactos hallados. Asimismo, se discuti la movilidad y los posibles intercambios socioeconmicos teniendo en cuenta los vegetales no locales utilizados. El anlisis anatmico comparativo entre las especies actuales que crecen en el rea de estudio y aquellas utilizadas en la confeccin de estas tecnofacturas permiti la identificacin de las ltimas, las cuales pertenecen a las familias Asteraceae, Cactaceae, Cyperaceae, Fabaceae, Juncaceae, Poaceae, Solanaceae y Typhaceae. Considerando las posibles reas de procedencia de las especies arqueolgicas se registr un menor grado de movilidad a grandes distancias durante el Holoceno tardo; en su lugar se instalan circuitos de movilidad pautada que obedecen a las actividades de pastoralismo que comienzan a desarrollarse.
23218930|Vegetation of the Santa Cruz River Basin (Santa Cruz Province, Argentina). The Santa Cruz River Basin, of an approximate area of 58,000 km, was studied using photointerpretation and field checking. Vegetation structure and physiognomy were described with the aid of Dansereau's diagrams (1957), lists of species with indication of their dominance and topographic profiles showing the relationships between vegetation types and physiography. LANDSAT images 1:500,000, bands 5 and 7, and aerial photographs 1:50,000 were used to define and delineate the cartographic units, based on Goosen's physiographic approach (1967). Six vegetation types: desert, semi-desert, shrub-steppe, grass-steppe, desciduous forest and meadow were described, divided in 21 subunits on the basis of physiognomic-structural characteristics and of dominant species. Results were expressed at three different perception levels (Long, 1968): exploratory, scale 1:3.000.000; reconaissance, 1:500,000 and semidetailed, 1:20,000 for those areas with good agricultural possibilities as the Rio Chico flood plain (irrigation). This survey includes some hypothesis about probable successional trends of desertification in the Santa Cruz River Basin. Suggestions are made about the research needs and the use and management of different ecological units. Se efectu el estudio de 58.000 km en la regin de los ros Santa Cruz, Chico y Chala (provincia de Santa Cruz) utilizndose la fotointerpretacin y el correspondiente control terrestre. La fisonoma y estructura de la vegetacin fueron descriptas por medio de esquemas o diagramas (modificados de Dansereau, 1957), listas de especies con indicacin de las dominantes y perfiles fitotopogrficos (topoclinas). Se utilizaron las imgenes LANDSAT en escala 1:500.000 bandas 5 y 7, as como la fotografa area disponible en escala 1:50.000. Sobre estos materiales se definieron y delimitaron las unidades fisiogrficas (Goosen, 1967) y posteriormente las unidades cartogrficas de vegetacin. En el trabajo se describen 6 tipos de vegetacin: desierto, semidesierto, estepa arbustiva, estepa graminosa, pradera y bosque caducifolio con 21 subunidades simples y compuestas, las que se basan en caractersticas fisionmico-estructurales y en las especies dominantes. Los resultados se expresaron en tres niveles de percepcin (Long, 1968), correspondientes a las escalas 1:3.000.000 (exploratoria); 1:500.000 (reconocimiento) y 1:20.000 (semidetallada) en las reas con alto potencial agrcola (posibilidades de riego) como el llano de inundacin del Ro Chico. Se exponen algunas hiptesis sobre las probables relaciones sucesionales entre las subunidades descriptas dentro del proceso de retrogresin determinado por el uso pastoril y la erosin. Diversas sugerencias son presentadas en relacin con las necesidades de estudio y el uso y manejo de distintos ambientes ecolgicos.
23218131|Synopsis of the Argentine species of Arenaria (Caryophyllaceae). Eight species of the genus Arenaria that grow in Argentina were analyzed, using mainly material from the Argentinian herbaria. They are: Arenaria rivularis, A. lanuginosa, A. catamarcensis, A. achalensis, A. pycnophylloides, A. bisulca, which are found in the northwest of Argentina; A. serpens, found on the Andes between Jujuy and Tierra del Fuego and A. serpyllifolia, introduced from Europe and, collected on modified soils in the pampas. Comparative tables between A. rivularis - A. serpens and A. lanuginosa - A. catamarcensis are given; all the species are described, mapped and a key is included for their identification. Arenaria dicranoides and A. pycnophylloides var. compacta were considered dubious or excluded names.
23217335|Embryological studies in Buddleja (Buddlejaceae) I: Endosperm and Episperm. This paper deals with the endosperm and episperm development of two species of Buddleja: B. stachyoides Cham. et Schldl. and B. tubiflora Benth. The following are the main conclusions:  The cellular development of the endosperm is according to the EODP system (Di Fulvio, 1983; 1985) of the heteropolar type and longitudinal subtype (EODP 1221) with chalazal and micropylar primary haustoria. The cells near the primary haustoria differentiate, secondarily, as haustorial cells.  In the mature seed the endosperm is ruminate and corresponds to the Verbascum type of Periasamy.  The endothelium is differentiated at the time of the anthesis but its cells divide actively after fertilization only by means of anticlinal divisions; in this way, the number of cells around the endosperm remains constant since the anthesis until the seed development is completed. These cells keep pace with the endosperm expansion becoming considerably enlarged.  The episperm consists of only 2 layers, the endothelium and the outer epidermis. The outer epidermal cells develop U-like secondary lignified thickenings along the radial and inner tangential walls; the outer tangential wall is compressed. Cells with reticulated thickenings develop around the micropyle.  Preliminary phytochemical and morphological studies showed close affinities between Buddleja and some genera of the Scrophulariaceae. The present study emphasizes this relationship and suggests that Buddlejaceae should be considered as an independent family, to included in the order Scrophulariales. Moreover, the absence of embryological similarities with Loganiaceae is at the same time demonstrated.
23225166|The genus Oziro (Hyacinthaceae), better known under the later name Fortunatia, is the only representative of the family in South America and ranges from Peru and Chile to Bolivia, Paraguay and north to central Argentina. Some of the species were originally described in the genera: Scilla, Allium, Ornithogalum, Nothoscordum and Fortunatia; and some temporarily considered to belong to Camassia. This paper deals with the taxonomic history of the genus and presents the results of a taxonomic revision, recognizing five species: Oziro acaulis, O. argentinensis, O. arida, O. biflora and O. pomensis. A key to recognize the species, descriptions of the genus and species, together with illustrations and distribution maps are provided. The study revealed Oziro argentinensis as a new record for Paraguay, O. acaulis for Chile, and O. pomensis as new for Bolivia, Chile and Peru; O. arida is endemic to Chile, and O. biflora was confirmed only for Chile and Peru. El gnero Oziro (Hyacinthaceae) mejor conocido por su anterior nombre Fortunatia, es el nico representante de la familia en Amrica del Sur. Su rea se extiende desde Per y Chile hasta Bolivia, Paraguay y norte y centro de la Argentina. Algunas de sus especies fueron consideradas en diferentes gneros: Scilla, Allium, Ornithogalum, Nothoscordum, Fortunatia y Camassia. En este trabajo se presenta la historia taxonmica del gnero, se lo describe as como tambin a sus especies, reconocindose 5: Oziro acaulis, O. argentinensis, O. arida, O. biflora y O. pomensis. Se provee una clave para el reconocimiento de las especies, ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin geogrfica. Este estudio revel que Oziro acaulis es una nueva cita para Chile, O. argentinensis es nueva cita para Paraguay y O. pomensis tambin es nueva para Bolivia, Chile y Per. O. arida es endmica de Chile, mientras que O. biflora pudo ser confirmada solo para Chile y Per.
23230216|The Tucumano-Boliviano forest, on its Bolivian side, has begun to be studied with greater detail in the last decade. However, the studies that have been conducted have had a more qualitative character or have been undertaken in small areas (0.1 ha); on the other hand, the biogeography of its lower zones is not completely understood. Moreover, some ecological aspects, such as tree spatial patterns, have never been addressed. We conducted a study in one hectare of tucumano-boliviano forest at 700-950 m, and mapped all trees and vines with DBH 10 cm in order to characterize quantitatively a representative area of this forest. The purpose was to obtain insight into its floristic composition, species abundance and structure. We carried out the first study on spatial patterns for this type of forest in Bolivia. We recorded 591 individuals belonging to 31 families, 47 genera, and 57 species. Six species were the most abundant and: Urera caracasana, Trichilia clausenii, Piper tucumanum, Diatenopteryx sorbifolia, Chrysophyllum gonocarpum and Cupania vernalis. The forest studied can be classed more as Tucumano-Boliviano forest than as a Pleistocene Arc type forest. Basal area was 29.04 m/ha. There was a relatively scarce presence of lianas, which indicates that this is a relatively slightly disturbed community. This is a diverse forest. Species richness turned out to be comparable to that of Madidi dry forests, and greater than that in Tucumano-Boliviano forest in Argentina, and was estimated at 74 tree species. Diversity (3.5 Shannon-Wiener index) is as high as that in many tropical forests, even in Amazonia. We found a random spatial pattern in the individuals of the community, and most of the species exhibited clustering at some spatial scale. El bosque tucumano-boliviano, en su sector correspondiente a Bolivia, ha comenzado a ser conocido con mayor detalle en los ltimos aos. Sin embargo, los estudios realizados han tenido un carcter ms cualitativo o se han realizado en superficies pequeas (0,1 ha); adems, la biogeografa de sus zonas ms bajas no est del todo clara. Por otro lado, algunos aspectos ecolgicos, como los referidos a patrones espaciales de los rboles, no han sido nunca abordados. Nosotros realizamos el estudio de una hectrea de bosque tucumano-boliviano a 700-950 m, y mapeamos todos los rboles y lianas con DAP 10 cm a fin de caracterizar cuantitativamente un rea representativa de este bosque. El propsito fue conocer su composicin, abundancia y estructura. Realizamos el primer estudio de patrones espaciales para este tipo de bosque en Bolivia. Registramos 591 individuos agrupados en 31 familias, 47 gneros y 57 especies. Seis especies fueron las ms abundantes: Urera caracasana, Trichilia clausenii, Piper tucumanum, Diatenopteryx sorbifolia, Chrysophyllum gonocarpum y Cupania vernalis. El bosque estudiado puede considerarse parte del bosque tucumano-boliviano ms que del Arco Pleistocnico. El rea basal total fue de 29.4 m/ha. La presencia de lianas fue relativamente baja, lo que indica que se trata de un bosque relativamente poco perturbado. Se trata de un lugar diverso. La riqueza especfica result comparable a la de los bosques secos de Madidi (La Paz, Bolivia), y supenor a la del tucumano-boliviano en el lado argentino, y fue estimada en 74 especies de rboles. La diversidad (3,5 ndice Shannon-Wiener) es tan alta como la de muchos bosques ms tropicales, e incluso algunos amaznicos. Encontramos un patrn espacial aleatorio en los individuos de la comunidad, y la mayora de las especies present agregacin a alguna escala espacial.
23217347|Phoradendron burkartii Rizz. et Ulib. a new species of Loranthaceae. A new species of Loranthaceae: Phoradendron burkartii Rizz. et Ulib. from Prov. de Entre Ros, Argentina is described and illustrated. It is related to Ph. strongyloclados Eichl., but it differs in the following characters: 2(-3) pairs of cataphylls, the leaf margin callouse-crenulate and the spike with the base of the articles elongated.
23225119|The Tey Cuar Provincial Park is located in the department of San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina (27 16' S, 55 33' W) and is 78 ha in area. The studied area has a total of 659 species of vascular plants, 384 genera and 110 families, 15 of which are Pteridophytes, 18 Monocotyledons and 77 Dicotyledons. Four of these species are endemic to the park and other 19 are restricted to Argentina, in the area included by this work. The families with the largest number of species are Poaceae, Fabaceae and Asteraceae; the richest genera are Paspalum and Panicum. Only 14 species are adventive. Our results show the great richness of species and the singularity of the flora of the park. El Parque Provincial Tey Cuar est ubicado en el departamento de San Ignacio, Misiones, Argentina (27 16' S, 55 33' O) y tiene una superficie de 78 ha. El rea estudiada cuenta con 659 especies de plantas vasculares, 384 gneros y 110 familias, de las cuales 15 son Pteridfitas, 18 Monocotiledneas y 77 Dicotiledneas. Cuatro de estas especies son endmicas del parque y alrededores y otras 19 slo crecen en Argentina, en el rea abarcada por este trabajo. Las familias con mayor nmero de especies son Poaceae, Fabaceae y Asteraceae; los gneros ms ricos son Paspalum y Panicum. Slo 14 especies son adventicias. Nuestros resultados muestran la gran riqueza de especies y la singularidad de la flora del parque.
23216512|This paper deals with the palynological study of the species of the genus Pithecellobium Mart. that grow in Argentina, P. cauliflorum (Willd.) Mart., P. divaricatum Benth. and P. pithecolobioides (Harms) Hassl., of Secc. Caulanthon; and P. scalare Griseb., P. grisebachianum Harms and P. chacense Burk., of Secc. Chloroleucon. This study is added as a complement of the systematic tratment (see Darwiniana 23 (2-4): 523-558). It has been possible to construct a key which allows to identify the species by means of its pollen. The number and disposition of the monades in the poliade and the exine sculpture of the distal face of each monade, are the features which make possible a quick identification of the species.
23218949|Fischerella major (Cyanophyta, Stigonemataceae): genus and species new for Argentina. In the present paper Fischerella major Gomont from Tierra del Fuego, Argentina, is studied. Description and illustrations as well as ecological observations are given.
23211935|Mamorea singeri, a new genus and species of Burmanniaceae. In this paper, the author describes and illustrates a new genus and species of Burmanniaceae, Mamorea singeri, collected in the Amazonas region of Bolivia. This genus is placed in the tribe Thismieae, and is closely related to Triscyphus.
darwiniana.3.1.108|We describe and illustrate
23222958|With this paper a revision of the leaf anatomy and architecture of the tribe Colletieae is completed. A comparative study of all 5 members of Colletia Comm. ex Juss. (C. spinosissima Gmel., C. paradoxa (Spreng.) Escal., C. hystrix Clos., C. ulicina Gill. et Hook. and C. spartioides Bertero ex Colla) and the sole member of Adolphia Meissn. (A infesta Meissn.) shows the following generic traits: Colletia: dorsiventral or subisolateral, amphi- or hypostomatic leaf structure; stomata paracytic, generally transverse to leaf axis; simple, usually straight hairs; mucilaginous epidermis absent; dark contents (presumably mucilage associated to tannin) usually absent; druses adaxially subepidermal, sometimes of considerable size; basally acrodromous, less frequently eucamptodromous venation. Adolphia: subisolateral, hypostomatic leaf structure; simple, curved to twisted hairs; dark contents from absent to very common, both in epidermis and mesophyll; druses very common; venation eucamptodromous. Colletia and Adolphia are anatomically close to different sections of Discaria within the Colletieae. As a whole this tribe is an anatomically homogenous group in which, although clear intergeneric differences are not perceived, combinations of a limited number of traits help to define most entities of specific rank.
23223250|The genus Bromus L. is represented in Argentina by 5 sections: sect. Bromus, with 6 species; sect. Ceratochloa (P. Beauv.) Griseb. (9 spp.), sect. Genea Dumort. (5 spp.), sect. Pnigma Dumort. (9 spp. and 3 varieties), and sect. Neobromus (Shear) Hitchc. (1 sp.). Of these 30 species and 3 varieties, 13 are introduced and 17 are indigenous. Three species are endemic to Argentina, B. bonariensis Parodi & J. A. Cmara, B. flexuosus Planchuelo and B. parodii Covas & Itria. A key to recognize all species and varieties that inhabit in Argentina is given, as well as description of the species, synonymy, iconography, geographical distribution and ecological observations.
23223871|Allomyces neomoniliformis and Dictyuchus missouriensis were isolated from agricultural soil with organic matter (leaves, roots and twigs) in Argentina. Both are reported for the first time from Argentina and for the second time for South America; this is the southernmost record of these species in the Western Hemisphere. These are the second isolations made of a member of the genus Allomyces and Dictyuchus in Argentina. Remarks on their distribution are also made. Allomyces neomoniliformis y Dictyuchus missouriensis fueron aislados de un suelo agrcola conteniendo materia orgnica (hojas, races y tallos) en Argentina. Ambas especies son citadas por primera vez para la Argentina y por segunda vez para Sudamrica, siendo el hallazgo ms austral para el hemisferio occidental. Constituye el segundo aislamiento en Argentina de especies del gnero Allomyces y Dictyuchus. Se realizan consideraciones acerca de la distribucion de ambas especies.
23223257|Together with a new combination, Dendropanax affinis (Marchal) Gamerro & Zuloaga, a synopsis of the family Araliaceae for Argentina is presented. Synonymy, literature, distribution and habitat are considered for each valid taxon. A key for species identification is also included.
41825696|After the most recent phylogenetic analyses of Gavilea, an updated taxonomic revision is presented here. A new combination, Gavilea chica, is proposed following the current monophyletic circumscription of the genus. This revision includes: 1) the history of the genus, 2) a key to the 17 species of Gavilea, 3) descriptions and illustrations of most species, 4) updated geographical distribution of the species, including the extension of the range of distribution of G platyantha and G. supralabellata to Rio Negro and Tierra del Fuego (Argentina) respectively, 5) nomenclatural observations and, 6) a complete and updated list of synonyms for every species. Five lectotypes (Asarca araucana, G. australis, A. patagnica, G supralabellata, and G wittei) are also designated. Sobre la base de los ltimos estudios filogenticos de Gavilea, se presenta una revisin taxonmica del gnero. Se propone una nueva combinacin, Gavilea chica, siguiendo la circunscripcin monofiltica actual del gnero. Esta revisin incluye: 1) la historia del gnero, 2) una clave para las 17 especies de Gavilea, 3) descripciones e ilustraciones de la mayora de las especies, 4) la actualizacin de la distribucin geogrfica d sus especies, incluyendo la ampliacin de la distribucin de G platyantha y G supralabellata en Ro Negro y Tierra del Fuego (Argentina), respectivamente, 5) observaciones nomenclaturales y 6) listas sinonmicas completas y actualizadas. Se designan cinco lectotipos (Asarca araucana, G australis, A. patagnica, G supralabellata, y G wittei).
23215614|Se han estudiado los caracteres anatmicos del parnquima radial y axial de algunas especies argentinas de Mirtceas. Se describe la diversa morfologa de las clulas de los radios y sus caractersticas punteaduras, del mismo modo que las tpicas clulas disyuntas presentes en gran nmero, tanto en uno como en otro tipo de parnquima. Se da a su vez una descripcin de la composicin de las partes componentes de los radios, en vez de clasificarlos en tipos determinados. Asimismo se registr la presencia de traqueidas vasicntricas, en varias de las especies investigadas. The anatomical characters of ray and axial parenchyma of several argentine species of Myrtaceae have been studied. The diverse morphology of ray cells, their characteristic pits and the typical disjunctive cells which are present in great number in both types of parenchyma, were also described. The composition of the different parts of the rays was given instead of using classifications for them in determined and pre-defined types. Furthermore the occurrence of vasicentric tracheids in several of the species investigated here was recorded.
23222966|A taxonomic revision of the North American genus Adolphia is presented. Two species were previously established in the genus: A. infesta (Kunth) Meisn. and A. californica Watson, of which a single one, A. infesta is here recognized. The species is described and illustrated.
23215053|In this paper on studies carried out in the Middle Paran River, Argentina, an attempt has been made to distinguish between  camalotales  (pleuston) and  embalsados  (floating islands; plav). Though the  camalotales  are described, a more detailed study of the  embalsados  according to the : origen, evolution and floristic composition is given.
23218917|Systematic position of Brachiaria glabrinodis (Poaceae: Paniceae). In this contribution B. glabrinodis is excluded from genus Brachiaria and treated within Paspalum, based upon exomorphological and anatomical characteres. The species is Kranz, MS, has membranous ligule, lower glume dimorphism and upper anthecium smooth and papillate.
23217319|Some lignicolous Discomycetes from the Subtropical region of Argentina. Several species of lignicolous Pezizales and Helotiales are here described, which have not been previosly recorded from Argentina. New records are: Phillipsia, with its species: P. domingensis, P. hartmannii, P. crispata and Plectania rhytidia in the Pezizales; Phibalis hematochlora, Ionomidotis plicata, Hymenoscyphus lasiopodium, and Dasyscyphus pulveraceus in the Helotiales. The following new combinations are proposed: Phibalis hematochlora (Speg.) Romero & Gamund and Phibalis hematochlora var. microspora (Speg.) Romero & Gamund.
23225114|This is the first record of Hyptis uliginosa and Sect. Plagiotis for the argentinian flora. The description and illustration of this species are complemented with a key to the species of Hyptis from Argentina. Se cita por primera vez para la Argentina a Hyptis uliginosa, perteneciente a la seccin Plagiotis. Ninguna de las tres especies de esta seccin haba sido mencionada an para nuestro pas. Se describe e ilustra la nueva cita y se incluye una clave para identificar las especies de Hyptis de Argentina.
23217333|Cytogenetics of interspecific hybrids and seed protein electrophoresis of four South American species of Elytrigia (Gramineae). Four caespitose self-fertilizing South American tetraploid species of wheatgrasses have been studied concerning their chromosomes and seed proteins. These species are Elytrigia attenuata (Kunth) Covas, E. breviaristata (A. Hitchc.) Covas, E. scabrifolia (Doell) Covas and E. tilcarensis (J. H. Hunz.) Covas. Three completely sterile hybrids were studied cytogenetically: E. attenuata  E. breviaristata, E. tilcarensis  E. scabrifolia and E. tilcarensis  E. attenuata. The mean number of closed bivalents were 9.09  0.31, 2.52  0.22 and 0.29  0.06, respectively. The meiotic behavior of the fertile artificial allopolyploid E. tilcarensis-E. scabrifolia was regular at diakinesis with 28 bivalents. At 1st. metaphase, however, there was precocious chiasma terminalization and univalents were formed (mean = 0.94 per cell). Seed set was variable (0-77%); in plant 717-21 reached 69.6% and most of the decrease in fertility in this plant is believed to be due to irregular distribution of univalents. From the analysis of the chromosome behavior of species, hybrids and allopolyploid and the study of seed proteins, the following conclusions have been reached: 1) E. attenuata and E. breviaristata have largely homologous genomes and are closely related. 2) E. scabrifolia has rather poor genome homology with both E. tilcarensis and E. breviaristata (see also Hunziker et al., 1965). 3) E. attenuata and E. tilcarensis showed the lowest degree of genome homology. 4) The four species differ from one another in at least 1 or 2 reciprocal translocations. 5) The cytogenetic results show congruency with a numerical study of the exomorphology (Ferrari & Hunziker, 1986) but did not entirely agree with a numerical study of the seed proteins separated by electrophoresis.
23226846|Two new species of Mandevilla (subgenus Mandevilla) from Peru are described and illustrated. Mandevilla pristina is related to M. assimilis, M. holosericea and M. tubiflora, but differs by its leaves with domatia along the midvein, foliaceous bracts and longer sepals. Mandevilla vasquezii is similar to M. cercophylla, but differs by the length of the corolla tube and stamen insertion point. Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Mandevilla (subgnero Mandevilla) para Per. Mandevilla pristina se encuentra relacionada con M. assimilis, M. holosericea y M. tubiflora, pero difiere por sus hojas con domacios sobre la vena media, brcteas florales foliceas y spalos ms grandes. Mandevilla vasquezii se puede confundir con M. cercophylla, pero difiere por la longitud del tubo de la corola y el punto de insercin de los estambres dentro del tubo.
23218939|Exomorphological and anatomical studies on the American species of the genus Acroceras (Poaceae: Paniceae). In this work a revision of the American species of Acroceras is completed, taking in consideration exomorphological and anatomical characters for the delimitation of the genus and its species. Two species of Panicum were transferred to Acroceras: P. excavatum Hackel and P. fluminense Hackel; A. chaseae is described as a new species. The generic delimitation of Acroceras is discussed, as well as its relation with other genera of the tribe. As a conclusion, Commelinidium and Neohusnotia are treated as synonyms of the genus and Acroceras is mainly defined by the following characters: panicles with spikelets disposed in racemose branches; spikelets lanceolate to ellipsoid, the glumes and lower lemma with a crested to laterally compressed apex, lower glume 3-nerved, 1/2 to 3/4 the length of the spikelet, upper glume and lower lemma smooth, papillose or not, upper lemma with a crested apex, upper palea with a reflex apex with two manifest green surfaces. Plants C, with decumbent to erect culms, leaf blades ovate-lanceolate to lanceolate, inhabiting in humid and shady places. Observations are made in Brachiaria paucispicata (Hackel) W. Clayton, a Kranz species previously treated by different authors as Acroceras paucispitatum.
23215669|In this third paper dealing with the algae of Brazil, four Chlorophycophyta and six Chrysophycophyta are described. These organism were found in the so called "Sete Lagoas" Lake-District, State of Minas Gerais. They are: Granulochloris maxima nov. sp., Pseudoquadrigula lagoensis nov. gen., nov. sp., Oedogonium spirostriatum, Pseudochaete crassisetum (Chlorophyceae), Phalansterium digitatum (Chrysophyceae), Tetraedriella polychloris, T. acuta, Goniochloris gigas, Peroniella minuta y Pseudostaurastrum enorme (Xanthophyceae). Except Oedogonium, all these genera are mentioned for the first time for Brazil and also for South America.
23215065|The first record of the genus Camarops (Ascomycetes) is given for Argentina, with a description of its only local species, Camarops polyspermum (Mont.) Miller.
23225116|Dioscorea monadelpha and D. subhastata, species that belong to a nomenclaturally and taxonomically misinterpreted group, are delimited, described, and illustrated; distribution areas are also given. The names D. similis and D. longirachis are here reduced to synonymy of D. monadelpha. Dioscorea piratinyensis is also considered a new synonym of D. subhastata. Helmia monadelpha, basyonym of D. monadelpha, and D. guaranitica var. balansae are lectotypified. Dioscorea monadelpha y D. subhastata, pertenecientes a un grupo taxonmica y nomenclaturalmente mal interpretado y confuso, son delimitadas, descriptas e ilustradas, y se dan sus reas de distribucin. Los nombres D. similis y D. longirachis son aqu reducidos a la sinonimia de D. monadelpha. Dioscorea piratinyensis y D. friesii son consideradas como sinnimos de D. subhastata por vez primera. Helmia monadelpha, basnimo de D. monadelpha, y D. guaranitica var. balansae son aqu lectotipificadas.
23226707|The grass family (Poaceae) is unusually well known taxonomically, with over 10,000 described species. These are characterized and classified according to a variety of morphological characters, particular those of the inflorescence and the spikelet but also a wealth of micromorphological and moleculary characters. Much data on the family is accessible electronically. Available phylogenies have identified 12 major lineages that are classified as subfamilies; within these subfamilies, especially for subfamily Panicoideae, the phylogeny is becoming increasingly clear. Developmental studies focus on the activity and fate of meristems throughout the plant, and illustrate how adult morphology arises. Analyses of quantitative trait loci (QTL) verify that some taxonomic characters are controlled by distinct genes, thus supporting their use in taxonomy. Studies of gene expression identify several genes, including LEAFY HULL STERILE1, RAMOSA 1, and TEOSINTE BRANCHED 1 that may have contributed to diversification of the grasses. La familia de las Gramneas (Poaceae) es bien conocida desde el punto de vista taxonmico, con ms de 10.000 especies descriptas, caracterizadas y clasificadas de acuerdo con una variedad de caracteres morfolgicos, en particular de la inflorescencia y de la espiguilla, como tambin por una gran cantidad de caracteres micromorfolgicos y moleculares. Informacin abundante sobre esta familia es accesible electrnicamente. Las filogenias disponibles han identificado 12 linajes principales clasificados como subfamilias, dentro de cada una de ellas, y en particular dentro de la subfamilia Panicoideae, la filogenia se est revelando con creciente claridad. Los estudios de desarrollo se enfocan en la actividad y el destino de los meristemas de toda la planta, e ilustran cmo se origina la morfologa adulta. Los anlisis de loci de caracteres cuantitativos (QTL) verifican que algunos caracteres taxonmicos son controlados por genes diferentes, apoyando el uso de estos caracteres en la taxonoma. Los estudios de expresin gnica identifican varios genes, entre ellos LEAFY HULL STERILE1, RAMOSA1, y TEOSINTE BRANCHED1, que pueden haber contribuido a la diversificacin de las gramneas.
23223219|The spur anatomy and some aspects of the floral biology of the perennial herb Tropaeolum pentaphyllum Lam. were studied. The hermaphrodite protandrous flowers are typically ornitophilous. They have a red spur which produces abundant nectar secreted through modified stomata. Nectar concentration is variable (27-63% sugars), and its production is greater in the staminate phase than in the pistillate one. Tropaeolum pentaphyllum seems to be a principally xenogamous species. Main pollinators are hummingbirds, but bee pollination cannot be discarded. The low rate of fruit production in isolated branches might have arisen through autogamy, but small arthropods carrying pollen grains on their bodies were occasionally observed on those branches, which may indicate that some cross-pollination is also present. The lack of fruit production in isolated and emasculated flowers indicates that there is no apomixis.
23216479|The authors propose to recognize Poa serotina var. purpurea Griseb. at the species level. As the varietal epithet is already occupied, P. purpurea Kirk (1877), a new name, Poa cabreriana Anton et Ariza, is proposed.
23222518|Observations on the floral biology of Prosopis (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae). II. Floral phases and visitors in the chaqueo serrano district. In this paper we present the results of observations on a community of Prosopis chilensis (Molina) Stuntz em. Burkart, P. flexuosa D.C. and P. pugionata Burkart, growing in the Reserva Provincial "Los Pocitos", Dpto. de Pocho, Prov. de Crdoba. The insects that visited the inflorescences were sampled, their behavior observed, and contents of nests and pollen carried were analysed. The temperature and the relative humidity were recorded throughout the day during all field-work. Studies on maturation of flowers and nectar production were made throughout the day, and interesting features of flowers were also recorded. The growth of flowers can be divided into the following phases: 1. closed bud; 2. closed bud with protruding style, no nectar, dry stigmatic surface; 3. gradual opening of flower, no nectar, dry stigmatic surface; 4. flower completely open, anthers dehiscent, nectar, and moist stigmatic surface; 5. fall of the stamens and the corolla if the pollination and fertilization occurred before, if not, falling of the flower. These phases indicate that flowers are not protogynous and thus this feature does not support the hypothesis of several authors that protogyny is responsible for the great intraspecific variability in Prosopis. The insects observed and captured that can be indicated as the pollinators of the species of Prosopis studied, are the following: 1. Caupolicana mendocina Jorgensen, 1909; 2. Xylocopa splendidula Lepeletier, 1841 and 3. Apis mellifera Linn, 1758. The pollen content of the nests of the two first species is the following: 1. in a recently provisioned nest of C. mendocina, was 50% pollen from P. flexuosa and 50% pollen from P. chilensis; 2. in a nest with larvae of C. mendocina, 3-colporate grains (Prosopis?) and pantoporate equinulate grains (Nyctaginaceae?, Chenopodiaceae?) whose determination was difficult because of the state of decomposition; 3. in a nest of X. splendidula sampled near a group of trees of P. flexuosa, 100% pollen from P. flexuosa; 4. a nest of X. splendidula sampled near two groups of trees, one of P. flexuosa and the other of P. pugionata, 50% pollen from each one of these two species. The palynological analysis of a sample taken from Apis mellifera indicated a mixed pollen from P. flexuosa and P. pugionata.
23222562|H. chillensis (H.B.K.) Hieron. has a great morphological variability. It hybridizes in nature with two closely related species: H. megapotamica Cabr. and H. microcephala var. albiflora (O.K.) Cabr. The meiosis of the putative hybrids is regular except for the presence of univalents at a low frequency. Male gametes show low stainability. The hybrids have low seed production. The similar karyotypes, previously described by Saez (1951) and the absence of heteromorphic bivalents in the hybrids suggest the existence of cryptic structural hybridity, i.e. of small cryptic structural differences which are difficult to detect cytologically. It is also suggested that the great morphological variability of H. chillensis could be due to introgression of genes from the other two closely related species.
23212151|This is a revision of the "filmy-fern" family (Hymenophyllaceae) as represented in the southern Southamerican area of Chile and Argentina, including the Juan-Fernndez islands in the Pacific ocean, the Cordillera regions from middle Chile to Tierra del Fuego, Staten and Falkland islands, as well as the South Georgia islands. Three genera are accepted and described: Hymenophyllum (21 species), Serpyllopsis (1 species) and Trichomanes (3 species). The "genera" of Copeland are used for the subdivision of Hymenophyllum into sections; of 7 of these, one is new: Eupectinum. Three species are described as new: H. quetrihuense, H. umbratile and H. nahuelhuapiense, all found in the lake Nahuel-Huap, region of Neuqun, Argentina. A number of new varieties of known species is also recognized. Two species are cosmopolitan: H. tunbridgense and H. peltatum; two others, H. caudiculatum and H. magellanicum are known also from South Brazil and one more, H. ferrugineum, extends its area to New Zealand. The remaining 16 species are known only from the area covered by this revision. Serpyllopsis caespitosa, the only species of the genus, is widely distributed in this region but not outside, and 4 varieties are described. Trichomanes is poorly represented: only T. exsectum grows on the Continent, T. ingae and T. phillippianum are limited to Juan Fernndez. Summing up, of the 25 species considered, 20 do not grow outside the area studied and 9 are limited to Chile (west side of the Andes and J. Fernndez-islands). while 2 of the new species on the eastern side of the Cordillera, in Argentina, have still to be found in Chile.
23230237|The first collection of the mistletoe Phoradendron argentinum (Viscaceae) for the Brazilian flora is reported. A brief description, a key including the taxonomically closest species, photographs and a distribution map of the species are given. Lectotype of P. argentinum is here designated. Se cita por primera vez la especie hemiparsita Phoradendron argentinum (Viscaceae) para la flora de Brasil. Se presenta una descripcin de la especie, una clave para diferenciarla de especies prximas, fotografas y mapa de distribucin para Amrica del Sur. Se designa un lectotipo para esta especie.
23223197|The pollen morphology of nine species of Macroptilium (Benth.) Urb.: M. panduratum (Benth.) Marchal & Baudet, M. longepedunculatum (Benth.) Urb., M. lathyroides (L.) Urb., M. bracteatum (Benth.) Marchal & Baudet, M. erythroloma (Benth.) Urb., M. fraternum (Piper) Jurez & Prez, M. psammodes (Lindman) Drewes & Palacios, M. prostratum (Benth.) Urb. and M. arenarium (Bacigalupo) Drewes & Palacios were studied with the photonic and scanning electron microscope. It is possible to differenciate them in two groups: 1) an homogeneous one, section Macroptilium, with colporate, spherical and reticulate or microreticulate grains; 2) an heterogeneous one, section Microcochle (Benth.) Lackey, with porate or colporate, suboblate grains with different ornamentation. In the section Macroptilium the separation at species level is difficult due to the similarity of their grains, but in the section Microcochle they can be recognized by the type of ornamentation. The main purpose of this paper is to determine the pollen diagnostic characters that allow species identification.
23223218|Foliar phytolith morphology of 8 species the Panicum (P. bergii Arechav., P. decipiens Nees, ex Trin., P. dichotomiflorum Michx., P. gouinii Fourn., P. hians Elliott, P. laxum Sw., P. prionitis Nees and P. sabulorum Lam.) present in the prairie of Entre Ros Province, was described. Cluster analysis (UPGMA) and ordination by principal component analysis (PCA) were performed on 49 morphological characters from the 8 phytolith assemblages (OTUs). The results defined four groups: the first group includes P. laxum assemblage, the second one P. hians and P. decipiens assemblages, the third group P. prionitis assemblage and the last one with P. dichotomiflorum + [P. sabulorum + (P. bergii +P. gouinii)] assemblages. The 8 phytolith assemblages showed Panicoideae affinity (sensu Twiss, 1992), and differed from the typical phytolith assemblages of other subfamilies. This study supported the previous infrageneric classification proposed by Zuloaga et al. (1993), with the exception of subgenus Dichanthelium wich appeared in this analysis related to species of subgenus Panicum.
23213889|The author found two brown algae (Phaeophycophyta) new to Argentine marine flora, on the coasts of Patagonia (Chubut and Santa Cruz). Both belong to the order Cutleriales  which is also new for this region , and are identified as Microzonia velutina (Harvey) J. Agardh and Cutleria multifida (Smith) Grev. The special features of the Argentine material of these species is described.
23218912|Diatoms (Bacillariophyceae) from Nostra pond (Cumbres Calchaques), Tucumn province, Argentine). The diatomologic association found in the sediment of the bottom of Nostra pond (4300 m over s.l.) is analysed. Thirty one taxa have been identified including species, varieties and formae, fo which the dominant ones were Amphora veneta Ktz., Navicula sp. aff. N. cincta var. rostrata Reimer, Nitzschia valdecostata Lange-Bertalot, Amphora tucumana Herbst & Maidana y Nitzschia alpina Hust..The others do not reach 4%. The majority of the members of this association have aerophil or benthonic habitats; this agree very well with the actual conditions of this biotope. A new taxon: Nitzschia halloyii sp. nov. is described.
23215736|The observation of pollen grains of the Argemone species and varieties corroborate the taxonomic modifications at the Ownbey classification of Sorar. The pollen grains are morphologycally similar, but it is possible differenciate each species and varieties by the exina characters. A comparative table and a key was made to recognised the different species and varieties.
90005719|So far the information about the genus
23227994|Coccocypselum pulchellum is reported for the first time for Argentina, in Predio Guaran, Misiones. This is the third species of Coccocypselum recorded for Argentina, together with C. hasslerianum and C. lanceolatum. Descriptions, illustrations and a key to the Argentinean species of Coccocypselum are included. Se cita Coccocypselum pulchellum por primera vez para Argentina, en Predio Guaran, Misiones. Esta es la tercera especie de Coccocypselum registrada para la flora de Argentina junto con C. hasslerianum y C. lanceolatum. Se incluyen descripciones, ilustraciones y una clave para reconocer las tres especies argentinas de Coccocypselum.
23213872|El complejo hasta ahora descrito bajo el taxn Cerastium rivulare Cambessedes es dividido entre Cerastium rivulare Camb. emend. Mschl, con estilos largos y C. rivulariastrum Mschl & Pedersen n. sp., con estilos cortos. Se da un resumen en latn de las diferencias entre las dos especies, y un mapa con la distribucin geogrfica hasta ahora conocida. Tambin se detallan los caracteres que separan ambas especies de las dos parecidas halladas dentro del rea: C. glomeratum Thuill. y C. junceum Mschl. Las diferencias entre las dos especies (vea figs. 13-14 y 17-18) llamaron la atencin de Pedersen. A propuesta de ste, Mschl revis el material, redact el texto, dibuj las figuras y confeccion el mapa. The complex until now described under the taxon Cerastium rivulare Cambessedes es is split up between Cerastium rivulare Camb. emend. Mschl, with long styles, and Cerastium rivulariastrum Mschl & Pedersen with short styles. A review in Latin of the points on which the two species differ is given and their known geographical distribution is shown on a map. The differences which separate the two species from the two other similar species found within the area, C. glomeratum Thuill. and C. junceum Mschl, are discussed. Pedersen noticed that the two species are different, and at his suggesttion Mschl revised the material, wrote the text, drew the illustrations and the map.
23215606|Seven entities of Celtis are recognized for Argentina: C. tala Gill. ex Planch., C. iguanaea (Jacq.) Sarg., C. spinosa Spreng., C. pubescens (HBK) Spreng., C. chichape (Wedd.) Miq. C. pallida Torrey ssp. pallida y C. pallida Torrey ssp. sericea (Romanczuk) stat. nov., which are described, illustrated and the geographic distribution shown on a map. The pattern of flavonoids of these species was studied and the result suggest that some species were well defined, like: C. tala and C. pallida, while others, like C. iguanaea, C. spinosa, C. pubescens y C. chichape, constitute a group of closely related taxa.
90005724|A significant amount of data on argentinian medical ethnobotany found in a catalogue about materials and information presented at the Universal Exposition of Paris of 1889 by Argentine government, is recognized, put in value, and analyzed here. Through characterization, detailed description and analysis of the information, a total of 758 ethnobotany data corresponding to 243 botanical entities were identified; 710 of which were validated and updated regarding their scientific plant names and distribution, and pharmacological terminology. Such data were referred to 11 Argentine provinces, and corresponded to Criollos human groups of five biocultural complexes. Data analysis shows that they are grouped into 20 categories of medicinal uses, being the most relevant those related to digestive system (19.6%), and to a lesser extent as vulneraries, and for the reproductive and respiratory systems. A total of 146 kinds of medicinal uses were identified. Some aspects relating to their biocultural linkages, rare historical uses, and the original condition of its contribution to criollos ethnobotany of Argentina, are discussed here.
23223216|This paper deals with the interpretation, description and typological characterization of inflorescences in the genus Lippia L. This genus comprises 160 species, mainly distributed in tropical and temperate America, with only a few species growing in the Old World, of which 60 have been studied. The inflorescences are of compound polytelic type, with bracteate capituliform spikes as florescences. The phyllotaxis, form, size and colour of the bracts have taxonomic value, these characters correspond with the sections of the genus. In section Dipterocalyx, the inflorescences are bracteate or frondose-bracteate heterothetic pleiobotrya; in the remaining sections the inflorescences are homothetic pleiobotrya. Series Corymbosae and Paniculatae, and some species of section Dioicolippia, have bracteate or frondose-bracteate inflorescences, while the remaining sections have frondose ones. Section Goniostachyum and subsection Mexicanae have numerous paraclades per axile, while the other sections have 1-2 paraclades per axile. Section Pseudoaloysia (Lippia lasiocalycina Cham.) is characterized by the production of flowers in two stages: first, on bracteate brachyblasts with proliferation and the second on frondose macroblasts, which are originated by the first brachyblasts. The heterothetic pleiobotra have been mentioned as the primitive form from which other inflorescences were derived. If this hypothesis is correct, the species of section Dipterocalyx may possibly be the ancestral group, from which the homothetic pleiobotrya of other sections derived.
darwiniana.3.1.38|
               
23222523|On the occurrence of a "crystalliferous sheat" in the stem of some species of Dioscorea (Dioscoreaceae). An endodermoid sheath with Casparian lines was recognized in the inner boundary of the stem cortex of ten species of Dioscorea from Argentina. Only in Dioscorea multiflora Griseb. and D. hassleriana Chodat there is a "crystalliferous sheath" this denomination is here proposed by inclusion of prismatic and rhomboedral calcium oxalate crystals. The crystal formation is related to the deposition of new cellulose walls, mostly radials; each original endodermal cell is thus converted in a 24 chambered cell. The presence of calcium oxalate crystals in endodermal position is cited for the first time. The "crystalliferous sheath" is present in lignified stems with a high increase in thickness and in a late state of growth. A brief discussion on the probable function is added.
23225169|The genus Tibouchina, Melastomataceae, is mainly distributed in tropical and subtropical regions of the Americas and includes nearly 350 species. Seven taxa are considered in the present paper and two of these are new records for the Argentinian flora. Each taxon is described and ilustrated. A key for the identification of the species as well as information on distribution and ecology is also provided. El gnero Tibouchina, Melastomataceae, est ampliamente distribuido en las regiones tropicales y subtropicales de Amrica, incluyendo alrededor de 350 especies. En la presente contribucin se tratan 7 especies, de las cuales 2 son nuevas citas para la Flora Argentina. Cada taxn se describe e ilustra, se brindan datos acerca de su distribucin geogrfica. Tambin se provee una clave para la identificacin de los taxones.
23222971|This is the third contribution to the Oomycetes growing on floating organic matter in rivers and streams of Buenos Aires province (Argentina). Some saprobic Oomycetes of Santiago River (Ensenada, Buenos Aires) are reported. Four species of Saprolegniales are described: Achlya proliferoides Coker, A. radiosa Maurizio, Calyptralegnia achlyoides (Coker & Couch) Coker and Saprolegnia australis Elliott, and one species of Peronosporales: Pythium marsipium Drechsler. All of them are new records for Argentina. One species of Blastocladiales (Chytridiomycetes): Allomyces arbuscula Butler is a new record for Buenos Aires province.
23226698|One neotype and fourteen lectotypes are here designated for fifteen names of Verbena. In addition, typification of Verbena nudiflora is also clarified. Photographs of Sellow collections here designated as lectotypes are included. Un neotipo y catorce lectotipos son designados aqu para quince nombres de Verbena. Se aclara adems la tipificacin de Verbena nudiflora y se incluyen fotografas de los ejemplares de Sellow designados como lectotipos.
23217320|Revision of the Argentine species of the genus Pappophorum (Gramineae Eragrostoideae - Pappophoreae). The genus Pappophorum Schreb., includes nearly ten species spread all over the tropical and subtropical regions of the American continent. In Argentina and neighboring areas occur seven species which grow in arid and semiarid zones: P. pappipherum (Lam.) O. K., P. caespitosum Fries, P. subbulbosum Arech., P. philippianum Parodi, P. krapovickasii Roseng., P. macrospermum Roseng, Arr. et Iz., are found in Argentina and P. hassleri Hackel is only known from Paraguay.
23222578|Acanthoceras zachariasii (Brun) Simonsen was found in Los Talas, Prov. de Buenos Aires. Argentina. Its nomenclatural status and systematic position as well as the distribution and ecological observations are discussed.
23227991|Current criteria used for the characterization of Phaseolus vulgaris and its varieties have not promoted the taxonomic identification of archaeological specimens, because they focused on rarely preserved characteres. This work analyzes variations within a broader set of cualitative and cuantitative characters of Phaseolus vulgaris, both macroscopic (seed) and microscopic (starch grain), with archaeobotanical relevance for northwestern Argentina. Diagnostic characters for Phaseolus vulgaris and the cultivated and wild varieties were identified. Los criterios tradicionales utilizados en las descripciones de Phaseolus vulgaris no han facilitado la identificacin taxonmica de ejemplares arqueolgicos de esta especie y sus variedades, debido a que se centran mayormente en aspectos de la planta difcilmente preservados. En este trabajo se establecen variaciones de utilidad arqueobotnica en un conjunto amplio de caracteres cualitativos y cuantitativos, macroscpicos (atributos de la semilla) y microscpicos (atributos de los granos de almidn) de las variedades cultivada y silvestre en el Noroeste argentino, identificando aquellos caracteres diagnsticos especficos e intraespecficos.
23224215|Two species of Zygnemataceae, Spirogyra nyctigama and Zygnema subcylindricum, are recorded, described and illustrated for the first time for the American continent. A third species, Z. synadelphum, is first reported from South America, being this the southernmost record of this species in the western hemisphere. The study was carried out in the province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Dos especies de Zygnemataceae, Spirogyra nyctigama y Zygnema subcylindricum, se citan, describen e ilustran por primera vez para el continente americano. Una tercera, Z. synadelphum, se menciona por primera vez para Sudamrica, siendo ste el registro ms austral para esta especie en el hemisferio occidental. El estudio se llev a cabo en la provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina.
23222567|A comparative study of all 4 members of this genus (R. ephedra (Vent.) Brongn., R. patagonica (Speg.) Tort., R. trinervia (Gill. & Hook.) Hook. & Arn., and R. stricta Hook. & Arn.) pointed out to the following generic traits: generally dorsiventral, hypostomatic leaf structure; mucilaginous epidermis uniformly present; simple, straight to sinuous hairs; dark contents in several tissues (presumably mucilage associated to tannin), often in mesophyll idioblasts; basally acrodromous venation. Retanilla is anatomically close to Discaria, Kentrothamnus and Trevoa within the tribe Colletieae. While all 4 Retanilla species display diagnostic features, R. stricta and R. ephedra show greater affinity both anatomically and in their phenological response to drought. Individuals phenotypically transitional between R. ephedra and R. trinervia and, on the other hand, between the latter and Trevoa quinquenervia, are anatomically intermediate.
23213810|In this note on the taxonomy of several Southamerican Verbenaceae, Verbena congesta Tronc. (Neuqun) and V. tecticaulis Tronc. (Paraguay) are proposed as new species. Glandularia aristigera (Sp. Moore) Tronc., new comb., based on Verbena aristigera Sp. Moore, is the valid name for the plant heretofore called Verbena or Glandularia tenuisecta. Lantana canescens H.B.K., is discussed with several synonyms from northwestern Argentina, as are Lippia trollii Mold. and L. laxibracteata Herzog, this species with the new synonym L. hickenii Tronc.
23216537|In this revision of the Apocynaceae of Argentina a discussion of the morphological characters of taxonomic importance and a diagnosis of the family are given, followed by a key to the 16 genera present in the country and their descriptions. For each genus, keys to the 41 species treated are furnished with descriptions, illustrations and data of their geographical distribution, including those of Forsteronia correntina Ezcurra et Tressens, Macrosiphonia undulata Ezcurra and Temnadenia meyeri Ezcurra, which have been published previously. Mandevilla velutina (Mart.) Woodson, Peltastes peltatus (Vell.) Woodson, Prestonia hassleri Woodson and Prestonia coalita (Vell.) Woodson are recorded for the first time from Argentina. Mandevilla minor Woodson is reduced to synonymy of Mandevilla angustifolia (Malme) Woodson and Peschiera hilariana (Mll. Arg.) Miers of Peschiera australis (Mll. Arg.) Miers.
41825695|Zoosporic true fungi and fimgal-like organisms include unrelated groups in the kingdoms Fungi, Straminipila and Protozoa. There is very little information on the diversity of these organisms in many ecosystems of great biodiversity, particularly tropical or neotropical areas. Research assessing their diversity has been mainly conducted in Argentina and Brazil using multiple baiting techniques, resulting in the discovery of many new taxa and new records. To date, 434 species in these groups have been recorded for both countries. Continuing research is necessary to provide a more comprehensive understanding of their diversity in South America. Few specialists are available to study such extensive areas, which are being degraded by deforestation, land/clearing, pollution and other anthropogenic activities that affect the habitat of these organisms, long before surveys can be carried out by mycologists and protistologists. Hence, attempts to gather information about the diversity of zoosporic true fungi, heterotrophic Straminipila and Plasmodiophorids from South America are urgently needed, and should receive high priority. Los hongos zoospricos verdaderos, los straminipilas heterotrfcos y los plasmodioforidios, son grupos de organismos filogenticamente no relacionados pertenecientes a los reinos Fungi, Straminipila y Protozoa. Existe escasa informacin disponible acerca de estos organismos en ecosistemas de gran biodiversidad, particularmente en reas tropicales y neotropicales. En Sudamrica, las investigaciones sobre su diversidad han sido principalmente realizadas en Argentina y en Brasil utilizando tcnicas de cebado mltiple, resultando en el descubrimiento de nuevos taxones y nuevas citas. Hasta el momento, en ambos pases se han registrado 434 especies pertenecientes a estos grupos, lo que demuestra que se necesitan ms investigaciones para ampliar su conocimiento en Sudamrica. Existen pocosespecialistas disponibles para estudiar reas tan extensas, las cuales estn siendo degradadas por la deforestacin, la contaminacin, y otras actividades antrpicas que afectan el habitat de estos organismos, antes de que su diversidad pueda ser estudiada por miclogos y protistlogos. De esta forma, los estudios tendientes a reunir informacin sobre la diversidad de los hongos zoospricos verdaderos, los Straminipilas heterotrfcos y los Plasmodioforidios deben ser considerados altamente prioritarios en Sudamrica.
23227132|Meristematic root cells from germinating seeds of five plants of Pithecellobium dulce (Leguminosae) from Caon de Lobos, Morelos, Mexico (18 51 20 N, 99 06 W, 1105 m s.m.) were cytogenetically analyzed using a surface spreading and air-drying method for plant chromosomes. Cytological data from 456 nuclei showed a somatic chromosome number of 2n= 26 with a low frequency of tetraploid cells (4.38%). The mitotic karyotype established as 14m+10sm+2st is reported for the first time for a population of this species. Total diploid chromosomal length (42.13 m), the interval of chromosomal length (1.32 - 2.07 m) and the asymmetry index (T.F.%= 39.14) were also obtained. These data were compared with those of P. candidum, which is the only species of the same genus with an earlier cytogenetic analysis. The scarcity of detailed karyotypic analyses prevents at present time to discuss about the cytogenetic changes in the evolution of the genus. Se realiz un estudio citogentico en clulas provenientes de meristemos radiculares de cinco individuos de Pithecellobium dulce (Leguminosae) provenientes de Can de Lobos, Morelos, Mxico (185120N, 9906W, 1105 m s.m.) utilizando un mtodo de extendido y secado al aire. Sobre un anlisis de 456 clulas se confirm un nmero cromosmico diploide 2n= 26 con baja frecuencia de clulas tetraploides (4.38%). Se obtuvo adems, por primera vez, la frmula cariotpica para una poblacin de esta especie (14m+10sm+2st), la longitud cromosmica total diploide (42,13 m), el intervalo cromosmico (1,32 - 2,07 m) y el ndice de asimetra (T.F.%= 39,14). Estos datos se compararon con el nico registro cariotpico previo de una especie del gnero, P. candidum. La carencia de datos citogenticos impide por el momento vislumbrar la participacin de cambios citogenticos en la evolucin del gnero.
23213049|Thirty species of Inoperculate Discomycetes are described herein from the Nahuel Huap National Park (Argentina), distributed among thirteen genera belonging to the following families: Hyaloscyphaceae, Dermataceae, Sclerotiniaceae y Helotiaceae. Three of them, namely, Calloria, Sphagnicola and Phaeohelotium are recorded for the first time for Argentina. Of the thirty species found, fifteen are new records for this country. The following new combinations are proposed: Cyathicula chlorosplenioides (Speg.) Gamund (basinym: Helotium chlorosplenioides Speg.); Rutstroemia megalospora (Speg.) Gam. (bas.: Helotium megalosporum Speg.) y Rutstroemia microsperma (Speg.) Gamund (bas.: Helotium microspermum Speg.). The paper contains a critical study of type material from Spegazzini's herbarium, and the description of a new species of the same general area: Phaeohelotium castaneum.
23223877|Andropogon barretoi, from southern Brazil, is described and illustrated. A dichotomic key and some remarks about related species are included. Andropogon barretoi, del sur de Brasil, es descripta e ilustrada. Se incluye un clave dicotmica para diferenciarla de otras especies del gnero y se realizan algunos comentarios acerca de las mismas.
23230208|Chenopodium stuckertii is identified as Holmbergia tweedii and lectotypified. Chenopodium stuckertii se identifica como Holmbergia tweedii y se lectotipifica.
23223908|Paspalum hydrophilum Henrard is a tetraploid, facultative apomictic, pseudogamous and self-compatible species for which occasional diploid and triploid plants have also been found. Three new plant collections from Mato Grosso, Brasil, were cytologically and embryologically surveyed. All three accessions were diploid (2n = 2 x = 20), sexual, and allogamous due to self-incompatibility. Reciprocal crosses concerning two diploid P. hydrophilum accessions and one plant of diploid P. palustre Mez produced several interspecific hybrids. Crossability, the number of hybrids obtained for every 100 pollinated spikelets, ranged from approximately 8% to 28%. The hybrids showed regular meiotic behaviour with 10 bivalent chromosome associations at meiosis, indicating a high chromosome homology among these species. The F hybrids inherited self-incompatibility from both parents, attributable to pollen-pistil interactions that arrested pollen tube growth at the central axis of the stigma. Low seed fertility was observed under open pollination. Seed performance ranged up to approximately 23% when parental pollen was dusted on hybrids. This performance may allow to transfer genes among these species. Our results showed a close phylogenetic relationship between P. hydrophilum and P. palustre and indicate the feasibility of interspecific genetic exchange. Though the distribution area of P. palustre overlaps the more extensive area of P. hydrophilum, natural hybridization was not observed. Allopatry of the diploid cytotypes of these species may account for lack of natural hydrization. Paspalum hydrophilum Henrard es una especie tetraploide, apomctica facultativa, pseudgama y autocompatible. Tambin se ha mencionado la existencia ocasional de plantas diploides y triploides. Aqu se estudian tres nuevas colecciones de plantas originarias de Mato Grosso, Brasil. Las tres resultaron ser diploides (2n = 2x = 20), sexuales, y algamas debido a autoincompatibilidad. Se lograron varios hbridos interespecficos al realizar cruzamientos recprocos entre una planta diploide de P.palustre Mez y dos de las plantas de P.hydrophilum. La capacidad de producir hbridos vari entre el 8 y el 28% de las espiguillas polinizadas. Los hbridos logrados mostraron meiosis regular con formacin de 10 bivalentes, indicando un alto grado de homologa entre los cromosomas de estas especies. Los hbridos heredaron de los padres la autoincompatibilidad, y en general produjeron muy pocas semillas en polinizacin libre. La polinizacin con polen de los padres aument la produccin de semillas, llegando en algunos casos hasta el 23% de las espiguillas polinizadas. Este nivel de fertilidad en retrocruzas indica que es posible la transferencia de genes entre estas especies. A pesar de que el rea de distribucin de P. palustre abarca parte del rea general de distribucin de P. hydrophilum, no hemos registrado en los herbarios ejemplares con caractersticas semejantes a los hbridos logrados ni hemos observado en el campo plantas que pudiesen ser consideradas hbridas.
23230206|Valeriana tunuyanense, a new species growing in crevices of high mountain rocks from Mendoza (Argentina), is described and illustrated. The new species is morphologically similar to Valeriana corynodes, and easily distinguished by its glabrous condition, smaller size, yellow flowers, and fruits pilose only at the basal half. A key is provided to recognize both species. Se describe e ilustra Valeriana tunuyanense, especie que habita en grietas de rocas de alta montaa de la provincia de Mendoza (Argentina). Valeriana tunuyanense es morfolgicamente prxima a Valeriana corynodes, de la que se diferencia facilmente por ser una planta glabra, de menor tamao, con flores amarillas y frutos pilosos solo en la mitad basal. Se incluye una clave para reconocer a ambas especies.
23215705|The genus Neohenningsia Koorders is first recorded for Argentina. The only species, found in Entre Ros, N. suffulta, shows the southern boundary of the species in the neotropic. A redescription of the genus is given as well as of N. suffulta and N. brasiliensis, based on type material and some comments on relationship with other hypocrealean genera.
23215660|Zur Erklrung der weiten amphitropischen Disjunktionen, welche die Areale mehrerer Taxa der gemssigten Zonen Amerikas aufweisen, sind diverse Theorien vorgeschlagen worden (Fernverbreitungs, Migrations- und Reliktentheorie, sowie die Theorie des tropischen Ursprungs der Vorfahren der heutigen Taxa und die Theorie des polytopischen Ursprungs dieser Taxa). Diese Theorien wurden hier kurz besprochen und soweit es mglich ist, wurde ihre potentielle Richtigkeit gezeigt anhand einiger Bespiele aus der halophilen Flora der Salinas Grandes, Argentinien. Zur Erklrung der Disjunktionen in der Flora dieser Trockengebiete werden die letztgenannten zwei Theorien hervorgehoben. Fr die bersetzung ins Spanische mchte ich Herrn Ing. A. Burkart meinen herzlichen Dank aussprechen.
23213791|Mediante el estudio crtico de la especie tipo y de colecciones americanas, europeas y asiticas del gnero Ascotremella Seaver, los autores concluyen que es un gnero vlido y distinto de Neobulgaria Petrak, con el que fuera sinonimizado recientemente. Para distinguirlos se da una clave que incluye caracteres micromorfolgicos, que a su vez permite separar Neobulgaria pura (Fr.) Petrak de N. pura var. foliacea n. comb. (= Coryne foliacea Bres.).
23223008|Pollen morphology of 9 species of Loranthaceae present in Argentina are studied using both light and electron scanning microscopes. These species are: Ligaria cuneifolia (R. et P.) Tiegh. var. cuneifolia, L. cuneifolia var. flava Abbiatti, Psittacanthus cordatus (Hoffmanns.) Blume, Struthanthus acuminatus (R. et P.) Blume, S. angustifolius (Griseb.) Hauman, S. uraguensis (Hook. et Arn.) G. Don., Tripodanthus acutifolius (R. et P.) Tiegh., T. flagellaris (Cham. et Schltdl.) Tiegh., Tristerix corymbosus (L.) Kuijt. and T. verticillatus (R. et P.) Barlow et Wiens. The characters which have been useful to recognize species or groups of species are: furrow features, type of ornamentation, shape of the angles in polar view and margin features. On the basis of these characters a key has been prepared. The outline in polar view, the relation P/E and the size data, cannot be used to distinguish species because they may change in the same specimen. Pollen morphology does not show any correlation with heterostily nor with the different hosts.
23222556|The isoenzymatic patterns of aspartate amine transferase (AAT=GOT) have been studied in individuals belonging to five populations of Bulnesia retama (Gillies ex Hook.) Griseb., three of them from La Rioja, one from Mendoza, Argentina, and one from Per. AAT evidenced dimeric structure in this species and depending on the stage analized, two or three zones of AAT activity were observed. This would imply that at least three loci are controlling the AAT isozymes. The Argentine populations were polymorphic for thee three loci with a mean expected heterozygosity per locus (H) varying from 0.536 (Mendoza) to 0.398 (La Rioja). The Peruvian sample, separated from the Argentine populations by an extensive gap of more than 1600 Km, showed polymorphism in only one locus and its mean expected heterozygosity ([symbol]) was 0.164. This lower variation could be due to strong selection in an extreme environment or more likely a consequence of long distance dispersal by one or very few migrants from Southern latitudes (founder effect). Since there is evidence that B. retama is self-compatible, an entire population could have been originated by a single migrant.
23226847|Sloanea chocoana, a new species of subgenus Sloanea section Brevispicae, is described and illustrated. The new taxon is close to S. faginea, but differs by the number of buds on branch apices, stipular shape, petiolar surface, inflorescence length and position, stylar branching, and fruit peduncle and spines. S. chocoensis resembles S. tuerckheimii, but can be easily distinguished by the morphology of stipules and fruit spines. Se describe e ilustra Sloanea chocoana, una nueva especie del subgnero Sloanea, seccin Brevispicae. El nuevo taxn es afn a S. faginea, de la cual difiere por el nmero de yemas del pice de las ramas, la forma de las estpulas, la superficie del pecolo, la longitud y la posicin de las inflorescencias, la ramificacin del estilo, y por el pednculo y las espinas del fruto. S. chocoana se asemeja a S. tuerckheimii, pero ambas son fcilmente distinguibles por la morfologa de las estpulas y las espinas del fruto.
23213814|In this short paper, the author reports the presence of Notholaena sulphurea (Cav.) J. Sm. in NW and W Argentina (Jujuy and La Rioja Provinces). A key for the Argentine species of that genus, is also given.
23218955|New synonyms and a new combination in Lucilia (Compositae, Inuleae). Three new synonyms are established: Lucilia lopezmirandae (Cabr.) Freire = Belloa turneri Sagst. & Dillon; Lucilia santanica (Cabr.) Freire = Belloa spathulifolia Sagst. & Dillon and Lucilia schultzii (Wedd.) Gray = Mniodes cerratei Ferreyra. The new combination Lucilia plicatifolia (Sagst. & Dillon) Freire is made.
23223896|This contribution includes all filamentous higher marine fungi (30 Ascomycotina, 6 Deuteromycotina and 1 Basidiomycotina) cited up to the present for Buenos Aires province, wich are also the only marine fungi cited for Argentina. A dichotomous key distinguishes the species mainly based on characters of propagules. All taxa are illustrated by original drawings of ascospores, basidiospores and conidia. En la presente contribucin se suministra una clave dicotmica que incluye la totalidad de los hongos marinos filamentosos (30 Ascomycotina, 6 Deuteromycotina y 1 Basidiomycotina) citados hasta la actualidad en la provincia de Buenos Aires, que asimismo son las nicas especies de hongos marinos citados para Argentina. Las caractersticas de los propgulos son consideradas como el principal criterio para la identificacin de las especies estudiadas. Todos los taxones son ilustrados mediante dibujos de ascosporas, basidiosporas y conidios.
23223243|Three floral phases were distinguished through anthesis, which starts after 1 p.m. Flowers in phase 1 and 3 (pollen donors) had their stigmas up. Flowers in phase 2 (receptors and donors of pollen) had their stigmas recurved near the anthers. Flowers in phase 2 occurred simultaneously with others in phase 1, during the day, and also with others in phase 3 (during the night). Sugar concentration in nectar varied: it was acceptable for Hymenoptera in the afternoon (when Xylocopa spp. and Centris spp. pollinate) and for sphingids after sunset (when Erinnyis ello seems to pollinate). Passiflora mooreana is melitophilous, but also is a resource for moths in the evening. Flowers showed a low degree of autoincompatibility. The low percent of fruits obtained suggests that the great distance between plants does not favor crosspollination. The ovary wall may grow without pollination.
23218068|This work deals with a taxonomic revision of the genus Acacia in Argentina. A discussion of the morphological characters is given, followed by a key to recognize the twenty one species present in the country. For each taxa a description, data of geographical distribution and a list of the examined herbarium material are given. Characters of taxonomic importance are also illustrated.
23215549|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Coronopus, con una variedad, para la Flora chilena: C. leptocarpus Boelcke var. leptocarpus y C. leptocarpus var. microcarpus Boelcke. Se trata de una especie estrechamente relacionada con Coronopus didymus (L.) Sm., discutindose diferencias exomorfolgicas, anatmicas y palinolgicas entre los nuevos taxones y la especie lineana. A new species of Coronopus, with one variety, are being described and illustrated for the Flora Chile: C. leptocarpus Boelcke var. leptocarpus y C. leptocarpus var. microcarpus Boelcke. The new species is closely related to Coronopus didymus (L.) Sm. and exomorphological, anatomical and palynological differences between the new taxa and the linnean species are being discussed.
23223874|This treatment comprises a taxonomic revision of the 19 species of the genus Passiflora present in Argentina, grouped in four different subgenera. Morphological characters used in the study are analyzed, including vegetative and reproductive ones. A key to recognize all species, as well as descriptions, synonymy, illustrations, geographical distribution and ecological observations are given. El presente tratamiento comprende una revisin de las 19 especies de Passiflora que crecen en la Repblica Argentina, agrupadas en 4 subgneros. Se discuten y analizan los caracteres morfolgicos empleados para esta revisin, incluyendo los vegetativos y reproductivos. Se presenta una clave para diferenciar las especies, como as tambin descripciones, sinonimia, ilustraciones, distribucin geogrfica y observaciones ecolgicas.
23228358|This work analyzes pollen characteristics of Rebutia deminuta, R. fabrisii var. fabrisii, R. fabrisii var. aureiflora, R. fiebrigii, R. marsoneri, R. minuscula subsp. minuscula, R. minuscula subsp. wessneriana and R. padcayensis to provide data that allow species delimitation. Pollen samples were collected in different mountain localities of northwestern Argentina. Observations, counts and measures of pollen grains were carried out under optical (MO) and scanning electron microscopy (MEB). Results show that Rebutia is a stenopalynous genus; pollen grains are apolar or isopolar, radiosymmetric, medium-sized (32-55 m), circular to subcircular; tricolpate or pantocolpate; with textate, perforate and nanoechinate exine. Differences among taxa are discussed, and a palinological key is presented. Este trabajo analiza las caractersticas palinolgicas de Rebutia deminuta, R. fabrisii var. fabrisii, R. fabrisii var. aureiflora, R. fiebrigii, R. marsoneri, R. minuscula subsp. minuscula, R. minuscula subsp. wessneriana y R. padcayensis con la finalidad de aportar datos que permitan la delimitacin de estas especies. El material polnico procede de ejemplares coleccionados en distintas localidades montanas del noroeste argentino. Las observaciones, conteos y mediciones de los granos de polen se realizaron con microscopio ptico (MO) y microscopio electrnico de barrido (MEB). El estudio de estos taxones pone de manifiesto que Rebutia es un gnero estenopolnico; los granos son apolares o isopolares, radiosimtricos, de tamao mediano (32-55 m), mbito circular a subcircular; tricolpados o pantocolpados; la exina es tectada, perforada, nanoequinada. Se discuten diferencias entre los taxones y se brinda una clave palinolgica para su diferenciacin.
23218907|Stomatal crypts in the leaves of Eupatorium bupleurifolium (Compositae). The leaf anatomy of Eupatorium bupleurifolium De Candolle has been studied, with special reference to the occurrence of stomatal crypts. In these crypts situated on both epidermis, where near all the stomata are confined, 2 different types of glandular hairs are also present: a biseriate one sunken at the bottom of the cavity, flanked commonly by 2 uniseriate ones. No differences were observed in the crypt characters in specimens collected in humid as well as in dry habitats, not accomplishing therefore in this species a protective function of the stomata. Other leaf anatomical characters include: cuticle smooth or striated, anomocytic stomata, isolateral mesophyll with the palisade tissue less developed on the abaxial surface; midrib with simple or compound vascular system whether or not accompanied by sclerenchyma, bundle sheath complete enclosing vascular bundles and adaxial secretory canals accompanying them. As a result of a preliminary literature survey accomplished on the subject the occurrence of stomatal crypts has not been reported previously for this large genus; likewise this character was also absent in several Argentine species studied here, being therefore a diagnostic feature for E. bupleurifolium. A discussion about the influence of ecological factors on the occurrence of foliar crypts in other plants is also given.
23226699|Staelia longipedicelata, a new species from Bolivia (Santa Cruz), is described and illustrated. Staelia herzogii. is a new combination and a new record to Brazil (Mato Grosso do Sul). A key is provided to distinguish the species of Staelia from Bolivia. Se describe e ilustra Staelia longipedicelata, un nueva especie de Bolivia (Santa Cruz). Staelia herzogii es una nueva combinacin y un nuevo registro para Brasil (Mato Grosso do Sul). Se incluye una clave para diferenciar las especies de Staelia de Bolivia.
23213874|A new species of Marasmius, pertaining to the Section Androsaceus is described. It grows usually on the bark of Mela azedarach L. by the hundreds, and is particularly evident after rains. It is characterized by its small size, melleous to ochraceous reddish colour, with slightly darker fibrils radiating from darker center, scant lamellae, the diverse elements forming the epicutis and, particularly, by the almost globose, large spores which give a pale amyloid reaction at first, soon disappearing in many, but by no means in all of them. Se describe una nueva especie de Marasmius de la Seccin Androsaceus, que crece por centenares en los resquicios de la corteza de Melia azedarach L. y es particularmente evidente despus de las lluvias. Se caracteriza por su tamao pequeo, color mlleo a ocrceo rojizo, con diminutas fibrillas algo ms oscuras que irradian desde el centro ms oscuro, laminillas escasas, elementos polimorfos que constituyen el epicutis y, en especial, por las grandes esporas casi globosas, que dan una reaccin amiloide plida al principio, que luego desaparece en muchas de ellas.
23218946|Key for the identification of species of Agaricus from Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego. An annotated key to the sections and species of the genus Agaricus to be found in Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego is presented. Included are some species not found as yet but that probably exist in the area. Comments on some critical species are made.
23223192|The present treatment deals with different structural variations of the spikelets in the following genera of the tribe Paniceae (Poaceae): Anthaenantiopsis Mez ex Pilg., Axonopus P. Beauv., Digitaria Haller, Lasiacis (Griseb.) Hitchc., Panicum L., Paspalum L., Reimarochloa Hitchc. and Urochloa P. Beauv. This tribe shows a reductive tendency in the development of the spikelets, mainly in morphological and reproductive characters, with regards to the number of flowers and bracts of the spikelets (glumes, lemmas and paleas) and "sexuality" of the flowers. Typical biflowered spikelets is the most common pattern among the studied genera; three-flowered spikelets are always present in Panicum quadriglume (Dll) Hitchc. and Lasiacis anomala Hitchc., being occasional in Anthaenantiopsis fiebrigii Parodi, A. perforata (Nees) Parodi var. perforata, Panicum crateriferum Sohns and P. grumosum Nees. Extension of the rachilla above the upper anthoecium is common in biflowered spikelets of Lasiacis and Urochloa, being exceptional in Panicum and Anthaenantiopsis. This study also concludes that there is variation in the "sexuality" of the flowers in the spikelets: the lower flower may be perfect, staminate or neutral, while the upper one is always perfect in the biflowered ones. In the three-flowered spikelets, the lower flower may be staminate or neutral, the medium one perfect, staminate or neutral, while the upper flower is always perfect. The occurrence of the extension of the rachilla is considered as a possible vestigial character, which represents the transition from many-flowered to few-flowered spikelets.
23222517|Phytosociological inventory of an area of the grasslands of the Depresin del Salado (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina) spanning the main environmental gradients. The vegetation of an area showing the maximun environmental gradients in the Depresin del Salado (Buenos Aires Province), was studied. Plant communities were defined using the phytosociological method and photointerpretation as a basis for sampling and mapping vegetation. The area was divided in 13 landscapes with their respective units. Fifteen floristic groups were used to define four plant communities, each with 2 to 4 variants. It was possible to define 12 cartographic vegetation units, which are shown in maps of areas representing each landscape, on a 1:50.000 scale. Their description was based on the relationships between the different landscape units and the mosaic of plant communities present. Some relationships between plant communities and soil characteristics and use were analysed.
darwiniana.3.1.65|Three new combinations in
23216458|The reinstatement of the genus Laennecia Cass. is proposed, and two species are accepted for it: L. gnaphalioides (H.B.K.) Cass. and L. filaginoides D.C.
23227993|Thalli of Draparnaldia mutabilis consist of a reduced, prostrate rhizoidal system and an erect system with marked differentiation between axial and lateral, highly branched, filaments, grouped in dense fascicles. The asexual reproduction is by zoospores with an erect germination pattern. This is the first verified report of this species for Argentina. In addition, a key to the best-described species is provided. Draparnaldia mutabilis posee un talo compuesto por un sistema rizoidal postrado reducido y un sistema erguido que muestra una marcada diferenciacin entre filamentos axiales y laterales, estos ltimos agrupados en fascculos densos, altamente ramificados. La reproduccin asexual ocurre por medio de zosporas que poseen un patrn de germinacin erguido. El registro de esta especie constituye la primera cita cierta para la Repblica Argentina. Se presenta adems, una clave con las especies mejor definidas.
23213907|Para Cerastium rivulariastrum Mschl et Peders. y C. rivulare Camb. emend Mschl, el Dr. Krendl de Viena, Austria, hall en pices de races el nmero somtico de 2n = ms o menos 36 cromosomas, que coincide con el de otras especies de este gnero de Cariofilceas. Completando la aclaracin sobre abreviaturas de herbario empleadas, los autores del trabajo arriba citado usaron "M" y "Pe" para sus respectivas colecciones particulares.
23228246|Present medicinal plant uses of the Chorote indians of Semiarid Chaco, is identified here. Sixty nine (69) plant species, 2 fungi species and 1 lichen with 194 medicinal uses, are recorded. A low proportion of medicinal uses regarding total ethnobotanical data (15 %), is highlighted. More than a half of such plant uses (52 %) were found identical from those recorded for their Criollo neighbours, concluding that these practices would have been incorporated as a kind of cultural loan. Chorote's pharmacopoeia would have been very reduced in the past owned to the shamanistic nature of their traditional medicine, in which medicinal plants would not have played a significant role. Among Chorote's medicinal plants Achatocarpus praecox, Cleistocactus baumannii, Echinopsis rhodotricha and Funastrum clausum, could be quoted. Ninety Chorote's strictly plant remedies could be counted, mainly as antiemmenagogic; antidiarrheic, for coughs and as cicatrizant. Se identifica la farmacopea vegetal que utilizan actualmente los indgenas Chorote del Chaco semirido argentino. Se registraron 69 especies vegetales, 2 especies de hongos y un liquen con 194 usos medicinales. Se destaca el bajo porcentaje de este tipo de usos respecto al total de datos etnobotnicos recopilados para los Chorote (15 %). De su comparacin con la farmacopea criolla se desprende que el 52 % de los datos resulta idntico, por lo que se concluye que los Chorote habran adquirido estas prcticas a manera de prstamo cultural. La farmacopea de este pueblo, entonces, fue muy reducida debido a que su medicina tradicional de corte chamanstico no involucraba antao el uso de remedios de origen vegetal. Entre las plantas medicinales tpicamente Chorote se pueden citar a Achatocarpus praecox, Cleistocactus baumannii, Echinopsis rhodotricha y Funastrum clausum. Los usos estrictamente Chorote quedaran as reducidos a 90 aplicaciones en total, principalmente como antiemenagogos, antidiarreicos, antitusivos y cicatrizantes.
23216500|Reproduction in Ulvales of Puerto Deseado (Prov. de Sta. Cruz, Argentine). I. General considerations and reproduction in Enteromorpha. The reproductive characteristics of the Ulvales of Puerto Deseado (Argentine) are described. In this first part, general considerations and methods are given and the reproductive characteristics of five species of Enteromorpha are studied and illustrated.
23213871|En este trabajo se describen e ilustran las dos especies y una variedad que representan al gnero Elatine en la Argentina: Elatine triandra Schkuhr, E. triandra var. brachysperma (Gray) Fassett, y Elatine opposita nov. sp. Varias sinonimias se establecen por primera vez. In this paper the author describes and illustrates the Argentine species and varieties of Elatine L. These are: E. triandra Schk. and its var. brachysperma (Gray) Fass. and the new species: E. opposita. Several synonymies are established for the first time.
23218957|Emilia fosbergii (Asteraceae) introduced in Argentina. The widespread annual weed of the American tropics, Emilia fosbergii Nicolson was collected in northern Argentina (Iguaz National Park, Misiones Province), in moistured rocky areas. Its occurrence in the National Park has increased the range of dispersion of this exotic tetraploid species near two degrees South, and ca. six degrees West from the Atlantic coast, at the southern limit, and it is a consequence of the disturbance of the natural vegetation in the area. The tetraploid nature (n = 10) of the Argentine population was determined. Emilia Cass. is also a new adventitious generic record for Argentina.
41825714|We describe and illustrate Mandevilla guerrerensis, a new species of Mandevilla from Guerrero, Mexico. Mandevilla guerrensis is related to M. holosericea, but differs by its glabrous corolla, spreading corolla lobes, disk glands partially united and submonilliform follicles. Se describe e ilustra Mandevilla guerrerensis una nueva especie de Mandevilla de Guerrero, Mxico. Mandevilla guerrensis se relaciona con M. holosericea, de la cual se distingue por tener la corola glabra, los lbulos de la corola extendidos, las glndulas del disco parcialmente unidas y los folculos submoniliformes.
23215616|Description of the vegetation of Salinas de Mascasn and surroundings, with the inclution of climatic data, list of the collected specimens, a map and pictures.
23218122|Floristic-structural study of a semideciduous forest area from Norwestern Argentina I. Floristic composition, density and diversity. Three types of semideciduous montane forest, situated at 2445' South latitude and at 950 and 1050 m.a.s.l., are described. The climate is strongly stational, rainfalls occur mainly in summer. The most important families are Myrtaceae, Leguminosae, Polygonaceae, Nyctaginaceae and Urticaceae. The density determined was 264 to 337 individuals per hectare, amounting to 40 tree species in the 5 hectares sampled. Basal area was 21 to 30 m per hectare. The classification of the forest and the floristic and structural differences of the three types are discussed. Finally, a table is presented with density and diversity data of similar works in some neotropical forests.
23218073|In this work the author studies the rehabilitation of the genus Maihueniopsis Speg. analysing the generic differences among this genus, Puna and Tephrocactus, the former two segregated from the latter. It also includes a chapter on the organography of Tephrocactus compared with the segregated genera. The following are the principal characters on which the segregation is based: Tephrocactus species are lax shrubs, with crypt-shaped areoles, red glochids; spines of scaly epidermical cells orientated towards the apex (contrary to what is normal in Opuntioideae), dry and dehiscent fruits, seeds with auriculated, soft aerenchymatic aril. These plants grow in Argentine low deserts. Maihueniopsis species are compact cushions with more or less cylindric normally developed areoles, usually yellowish glochids, smooth spines, fleshy indehiscent fruits, soft to very hard nonaerenchymatic aril, these without auricles. These plants grow in very high mountains and in the Patagonian plateu, from Ecuador to Chile and Argentina. In the case of the two species of Puna, the visible parts of these plants consist of only a few segments wich grow at ground-level; their cylindric areoles have no glochids except in the lowest ones in P. subterranea. In the only two species of this genus, the epidermical cells of the spines are grouped into longitudinal lines and though, separated among themselves, they are lengthwise joined to the central body of the spine. Their flowers have reduced areoles. Fruits are dry, indehiscent; the seed arilus cover is soft, hairy-like. These plants grow in highlands between 2.000 and 4.000 m a.s.l. The taxonomical treatment includes: key to the Opuntioideae genera wich grow in Argentina and for the species of Tephrocactus and the Argentine ones of Maihueniopsis, descriptions, data on geographical distribution and ecology, ilustrations and exiccata. The following new combinations are given: Maihueniopsis darwinii var. hickenii (Br. et Rose) Kiesling, M. minuta (Backbg.) Kiesling, M. boliviana (S.-D.) Kiesling, M. nigrispina (K. Schum.) Kiesling y M. pentlandii (S.-D.) Kiesling. Several neotypes are designated.
23227997|Acca sellowiana (Myrtaceae) and Casearia lasiophylla (Flacourtiaceae) are reported for the first time for the Argentinean flora. The genus Acca has not been previously recorded for Argentina. These species are widely known in other countries because of their multiple uses. Distinctive characters of both species are provided together with illustrations (photographs) and information about their geographical distribution, vernacular names, uses and ecological observations. Se citan por primera vez para la flora argentina las especies Acca sellowiana (Myrtaceae) y Casearia lasiophylla (Flacourtiaceae), las cuales se destacan en otros pases por sus mltiples usos. El gnero Acca no haba sido citado anteriormente para Argentina. Se detallan los caracteres distintivos de las especies, se las ilustra mediante fotografas y se brinda informacin acerca de su distribucin, nombres vernculos, usos y observaciones ecolgicas.
23218132|The genus Panicum (L.) Seccin Parviglumia. A taxonomic revision of the American section Parviglumia of the genus Panicum is presented. Six species are treated, including a description of the section and a key and descriptions of the different species; the respective data of geographycal distribution and a list of the examined herbarium material is given for each taxa. Panicum cayoense is recorded for the first time from Mexico and P. arundinariae from Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador. Panicum schiffneri and P. schmitzii are reduced to synonymy of P. trichidiachne and P. conchatum and P. breviramosum to synonymy of P. arundinariae.
23223254|Justicia floribunda (C. Koch) Wasshausen nov. comb. is recorded for the first time for Argentina (Misiones), described and illustrated. The name Justicia rizzinii Wasshausen is reduced to synonymy. This species was previously known from forests of southern Brasil and may probably be also found in eastern Paraguay.
23218945|Contribution to the study of Argentine xylophilous fungi. III. Basidiomycetous jelly-fungi. Ten species of Tremellales and related orders occurring on Eucalyptus viminalis stands are described, namely: Bourdotia obscura, Exidiopsis fuliginea, Exidiopsis glaira, Heterochaete shearii, Heterochaetella dubia, Stypella minor, Cerinomyces lagerheimii, Dacrymyces ancoratus, Tulasnella pruinosa and Ductifera argentinensis. All of them, excluding the latter, are new records for Argentina, and thus widen their geographic distribution.
23216524|The study of the descriptions of Cactus peruvianus Linn and Cereus peruvianus Mill. shows that these two species have to be considered as different; the former still "dubius" and the last one belonging to Stenocereus (S. peruvianus (Mill.) nov. comb.) Based on a wrong name given by A. P. De Candolle in 1800 and 1828, every author since then has used the name Cereus peruvianus for a species of Cereus s. s. from S-Brasil, Uruguay and NE of Argentina. This species had never been correctely described. Here, it is described as Cereus uruguayanus Ritter ex Kiesling, nov. sp. In 1909 Britton and Rose used Cereus peruvianus as typus species for Cereus. Later, in 1920, they correct this, giving Cereus hexagonus as typus; wich gives stability to all the names within Cereus s. s.
23612316|The anatomical analysis of charred woody remains confirmed the use of Chusquea culeou at Meliquina Lake archaeological site, Argentinean Patagonia. We present the anatomical analysis of both charred archaeological and present reference materials, and we highlight the use of this species to make structures that separated different areas for subsistence activities during the occupation of the site. El anlisis anatmico de restos leosos carbonizados confirmaron el uso de Chusquea culeou en el sitio arqueolgico Lago Meliquina, Patagonia argentina. Se presenta el anlisis anatmico tanto de los restos carbonizados como de los materiales de referencia actuales, y se resalta el uso de C. culeou en la confeccin de estructuras que separaron espacios diferenciados para la realizacin de actividades de subsistencia durante la ocupacin del sitio.
23226715|Four species of Diodia are transferred to Diodella, and the new combinations are: Diodella gardneri, Diodella mello-barretoi, Diodella sarmentosa and Diodella scandens. Cuatro especies de Diodia son transferidas a Diodella, y las nuevas combinaciones son: Diodella gardneri, Diodella mello-barretoi, Diodella sarmentosa y Diodella scandens.
23213870|The author reports on chromosome number counts made on 17 species of Chenopodium from Argentina, whose flora has about 30 species of this genus. The counts were made in root-tip cells or with microsporocytes. Only from 7 of the treated species the chromosome number was known from other authors (see Table I). The results are given in Table II. Most of the counts are from species of the section Chenopodia (11 species, from the 3 remaining ones no material could be obtained). As a result the author states that two basic chromosome numbers are found: the sections Roubieva, Orthosporum and Ambrina have x = 8; the sections Botrys, Degenia, Thellungia and Chenopodia have x = 9. These basic chromosome numbers were constant in every section. As to the taxonomy of the genus, the author followed, with some minor changes, the system of Aellen and Just (1943), which proved to be very useful.
23223228|An inventory of the types of Gramineae wich originally came from Berlin herbarium (B) and kept in the Gaspar Xurez herbarium (BAA), has been made. A total of 310 types (fragments of holotypes, isotypes and isosyntypes) which belong to South American taxa, were analyzed. The types have been ordered alphabetically; bibliographical and label data, characteristics of the material, the numbering of samples and up to date identification was included within each entry. This collection belonged to the agrostologist Lorenzo R. Parodi, who in 1936 visited different European herbaria, including Berlin. Parodi obtained isotypes and fragments from (B) through Robert Pilger. When he returned to Argentina the material was ordered and preserved for more than 30 years in his private herbarium. After his death in 1966, his herbarium was donated by his wife to the Gaspar Xuarez herbarium (BAA), where it can be found today.
23612314|A new subspecies of Calibrachoa from Argentina and Brazil is described and ilustrated: C. linoides subsp. furcata. Calibrachoa heterophylla is excluded from the Argentinean flora. Calibrachoa linearis and Petunia thymifolia f. gracilis are considered as new synonyms of C. thymifolia, and misinterpretations about two species (C. pubescens and C. humilis) previously cited for Argentina are clarified. Lectotypes are designated for Fabiana thymifolia, Petunia thymifolia f. gracilis, and Salpiglossis linearis (= C. thymifolia). Se describe e ilustra una nueva subespecie de Calibrachoa para Argentina y Brasil: C. linoides subsp. furcata. Se excluye a C. heterophylla de la flora argentina. Se consideran a C. linearis y a Petunia thymifolia f. gracilis como nuevos sinnimos de C. thymifolia y se esclarecen interpretaciones errneas de dos especies (C. pubescens y C. humilis), previamente citadas para Argentina. Se designan lectotipos para Fabiana thymifolia, Petunia thymifolia f. gracilis y Salpiglossis linearis (= C. thymifolia).
23223899|The presence of the genus Colanthelia McClure & E. W. Sm. is confirmed for Argentina, represented by one species, C. rhizantha (Hack.) McClure, found in the province of Misiones. The genus Colanthelia is described and some remarks about the related genera are included. Colanthelia rhizantha is described, illustrated for the first time and a few comments about the flowering are given. A key for the genera of native woody bamboos present in Argentina, is also included. Se confirma la presencia del gnero Colanthelia McClure & E.W. Sm. para la Argentina, representado por una especie, C. rhizantha (Hack.) McClure, hallada en floracin en la provincia de Misiones. El gnero Colanthelia se describe y se adjuntan diferencias y comentarios sobre los gneros relacionados. Colanthelia rhizantha se describe, se ilustra por primera vez y se sealan algunas consideraciones sobre la floracin. Se incluye una clave de los gneros de bames leosos nativos de Amrica presentes en la Argentina.
41825701|This synopsis of the Argentinean species of Peperomia includes 35 taxa, 10 excluded names (P. alata, P. blanda, P. boliviensis, P. effusa, P. hilariana, P. hispidula var. hispidula, P. rhombea, P. rusbyi, P. serpens and P. silvarum), and nine new synonyms (P. misionense under P. arifolia; P. comarapana f. pubescens under P. comarapana; P. mandonii, P. mandonii var. excelsis, P. umbelliformis, P. non-hispidula under P. crystallina; P. lilloi and P. sanpedritoi under P. santaelisae and, P. subpubistachya under P. urocarpa). Four new species are cited for the Argentinean flora (P. crystallina, P. diaphanoides, P. increscens and P. trineuroides). Twenty names were lectotypified and one was neotypified. Treatment of each entity includes synonymy, iconography, vernacular names, distribution and habitat, observations and representative specimens examined. A key to the identification of the taxa and illustrations are also provided. Se Presenta una sinoP.sis del gnero Peperomia para la Argentina donde se incluyen 35 taxones, se excluyen 10 taxones (P. alata, P. blanda, P. boliviensis, P. effusa, P. hilariana, P. hispidula var. hispidula, P. rhombea, P. rusbyi, P. serpens y P. silvarum), se establecen nueve sinnimos nuevos (P. misionense bajo P. arifolia; P. comarapana f. pubescens bajo P. comarapana; P. mandonii P. mandonii var. excelsis, P. umbelliformis, P. non-hispidula bajo P. crystallina; P. lilloi y P. sanpedritoi bajo P. santaelisae y P. subpubistachya bajo P. urocarpa), y se citan cuatro nuevas especies para la flora argentina (P. crystallina, P. diaphanoides, P. increscens y P. trineuroides). Se realizan 20 lectotipificaciones y una neotipificacin. El tratamiento de cada entidad incluye la sinonimia, la iconografa, nombres vulgares, distribucin y hbitat, observaciones y material representativo examinado. Se aporta tambin una clave para la identificacin de los taxones e ilustraciones.
23230219|Baccharis chionolaenoides, a new species placed within subgenus Tarchonantoides section Curitybenses, is described and illustrated. The delimitation from B. curitybensis is discussed. Baccharis chionolaenoides, una nueva especie del subgnero Tarchonantoides seccin Curitybenses, es descrita e ilustrada, y se comentan las diferencias con B. curitybensis.
23226700|Gymnopogon toldensis, a new species from Argentina, is described and illustrated. A key to the species of Gymnopogon from northwestern Argentina is also included. Se describe e ilustra Gymnopogon toldensis, una nueva especie para la Argentina. Asimismo se proporciona una clave que permite identificar las especies de Gymnopogon que viven en la regin noroeste de la Argentina.
23222972|The anatomy of young branches of Lessonia nigrescens Bory from central Chile was analyzed using light and transmission electron microscopy. Three regions are recognized: meristoderm, cortex, and medulla. The meristoderm is a few cell layers thick. Cortical cells have several primary pit fields with plasmodesmata 33-60 nm in diameter. Indirect evidence from pit field distribution suggests that symplasmic transport is mainly longitudinal in the inner cortex. The medulla contains hyphae, that originate from the inner cortical cells, and trumpet filaments. These cell systems do not communicate with each other. The hyphae have plasmodesmata in their cross walls, apparently in primary pit fields. The trumpet filaments have sieve areas in the transverse walls, with pores 70-170 nm in diameter. Occasionally, callose accumulates in some of these sieve areas. In general, cell walls are composed of microfibrils which are arranged in lamellae. The cell walls are surrounded by an intercellular matrix, which is more abundant in the medulla than in the meristoderm and the cortex.
41825717|The morphological variation in vegetative and reproductive structures of Bauhinia mollis (var. mollis and var. notophila) and B. argentinensis (var. argentinensis and var. megasiphon) were studied. This detailed morphological study enabled us to correctly identify herbarium specimens and expand the geographic distribution of the taxa. New records of B. mollis var. mollis for Argentina and B. argentinensis var. argentinensis and B. argentinensis var. megasiphon for Bolivia, the latter considered endemic to Argentina, are here confirmed. Lectotypes were designated for Bauhinia mollis, B. mollis var guaranitica and B. appendiculata. Se estudi la variacin morfolgica en estructuras vegetativas y reproductivas de Bauhinia mollis (var. mollis y var. notophila) y de B. argentinensis (var. argentinensis y var. megasiphon). Este estudio morfolgico detallado permiti identificar correctamente ejemplares de herbario y ampliar la distribucin geogrfica de los taxones. Se establecen nuevas citas: B. mollis var. mollis para Argentina y B. argentinensis var. argentinensis y B. argentinensis var. megasiphon para Bolivia, esta ltima considerada endmica de Argentina. Se designaron lectotipos para Bauhinia mollis, B. mollis var. guaranitica y B. appendiculata.
23212956|En el presente trabajo se establecen los nmeros cromosmicos de J. australis y J. boliviana, originarias de Sudamrica, y se ratifica el nmero cromosmico de J. nigra, originaria de Norte Amrica. Se agregan algunas observaciones biolgicas sobre foliacin, floracin, germinacin, etc., correspondientes a la latitud de Buenos Aires. In the present paper the author establishes the chromosome number of J. australis and J. boliviana, natives of South America and ratifies the chromosome number of J. nigra, native of North America. The author adds some biological observations on the behavior of blooming, germination, of these species.
23222559|The comparative anatomy and development of fruit and seed in some South American members of three Solaneae genera have been studied -all the species of Aureliana, two of Athenaea and three of Capsicum. Most data are reported for the first time. The structure of the ovary after fertilization, young and mature berries, as well as the development and anatomy of the seeds are described and illustrated. Results are discussed and compared with previous reports for the family. A key, based on carpological characters, to the genera and species analyzed is provided. Our findings support the point of view of those authors who consider these genera as related but independent.
23223913|The presence of the genus Rhipidocladum McClure is confirmed for Argentina, represented by two species. Rhipidocladum neumannii Sulekic, Rgolo & L.G. Clark sp. nov., found in flowering and vegetative condition in Argentina, in Salta and Tucumn, and Bolivia, is described and illustrated. The presence of R. racemiflorum (Steud.) McClure is documented for the first time for the northwestern region of Salta. Rhipidocladum is described and the differences with the genus Merostachys Spreng. are included in a key. Some remarks about the morphology, flowering, geographical distribution and a doubtful specimen have been made. Se confirma la presencia del gnero Rhipidocladum McClure para la Argentina, representado por dos especies. Se describe e ilustra una nueva entidad para la ciencia: R. neumannii Sulekic, Rgolo & L.G. Clark, hallada en floracin y en estado vegetativo en la Argentina, en las provincias de Salta y Tucumn y en Bolivia. Se establecen sus diferencias con R. racemiflorum (Steud.) McClure, cuya presencia en la Argentina se documenta por primera vez para la provincia de Salta. Rhipidocladum se describe y se incluye una clave para su diferenciacin con Merostachys Spreng., el gnero ms afn. Se hacen tambin consideraciones sobre la morfologa, floracin y distribucin geogrfica de los taxones.
23228354|The archaeological record of Ambato valley, in northwestern Argentina, has the particularity of preserving the timber used in the construction of the settlings, due to the fires that affected the region by the 11th century. We taxonomically identified 105 sample trunks, used as posts and beams in the construction of the "Iglesia de los Indios" and "Piedras Blancas". The anthracological analysis revealed differences in the choice of timber, as for the Piedras Blancas site the material was from the valley itself, while for the Iglesia de los Indios site the timber came from outside. Based on those results, we discuss similarities and particularities between both sites about the selection, use and meaning of the different forest resources. El registro arqueolgico del Valle de Ambato en el Noroeste argentino presenta la particularidad de preservar las maderas empleadas en la construccin de los asentamientos, debido a incendios ocurridos en la zona hacia el siglo XI d.C. Esta peculiaridad ha permitido recuperar hasta el momento abundante material. Se realiz la identificacin taxonmica de muestras correspondientes a 105 troncos utilizados como postes y vigas en la construccin de los sitios "Iglesia de los Indios" y "Piedras Blancas". Los anlisis antracolgicos presentaron resultados sensiblemente diferentes, habindose empleado para la Iglesia de los Indios materias primas alctonas al valle, contrariamente a lo que ocurre en el sitio Piedras Blancas. Sobre esta base se discuten las correspondencias entre ambos sitios en torno a la seleccin, usos y significados de los distintos recursos forestales.
23213897|The present paper is a synopsis of the 5 species of the genus Ayenia section Ayenia which bear leaf nectaries. These are: A. conciliata (subsection Conciliatae), A. stipularis, A. Cuatrecasae (subsection Stipulares), A. praeclara and a new species which we name A. Klugii (subsection Praeclarae). In addition, the structure of the nectaries of each one of these species is described, and it was found that they are very similar to those described for species of Byttneria (Arbo, 1971 ined.,) and for diverse Malvaceae (Janda, 1937). The only exception is A. praeclara, which has nectaries identical, in their external aspect, to those of some Byttneriae, but which are characterized by roundish lysigenous cavities which open outward through pores. The other species present glandular hairs embedded in a multiseriate epidermis. Besides, A. praeclara is the most closely related especies to A. Klugii nov. sp., so that the anatomical differences found are of great taxonomical interest.
41825706|Cannonia is a xylarioid genus originally described from the southern hemisphere (Argentina and Australia) growing on dead parts of palms. To date, the genus is considered monospecific and the only species recognized is C australis. During collection trips in the State of Maranho, Brazil, specimens of C. australis were gathered on the inflorescence rachis and floral pedicels of a Syagrus species (Arecaceae). Description and line drawings are provided, this being the first record from Brazil. Cannonia es un gnero xilariceo originalmente descrito para el hemisferio sur (Argentina y Australia) que crece sobre partes muertas de palmeras. Actualmente, el gnero es considerado monoespecfico y la nica especie reconocida es C. australis. Durante viajes de exploraciones micolgicas en el estado de Maranho, Brasil, se coleccionaron especmenes de C. australis sobre el raquis de la inflorescencia y los pedicelos florales de una especie de Syagrus (Arecaceae). Se describe e ilustra esta especie registrada por primera vez para Brasil.
23222968|The Gasteromycete flora of central flora of central and western Argentina is revised. The taxonomical characters were analyzed from an anatomical and cytological point of view including some ontogenetic speculations. Thirty three genera are recognized. A taxonomical key to the genera is included. This first part of the study ends with the treatment on the Order Podaxales which includes two families, three genera and four species; the remaining orders will be considered in forthcoming articles.
23228360|A new species of Eleocharis, E. cordillerana (Cyperaceae) is described and illustrated. This species is endemic to Southern Chile, and its relationships at species level remain unclear. Se describe e ilustra Eleocharis cordillerana (Cyperaceae), una especie nueva, endmica del sur de Chile, cuyas relaciones a nivel especfico son poco claras.
23223202|Eight species and 2 varietes, new records for Argentina, are described and illustrated. They are : Dermocarpa versicolor (Borzi) Geitler, Xenococcus gracilis Lemmermann, Phormidium pachydermaticum Frmy, Schizothrix lardaceae (Ces.) Gomont, Cylindrospermum vouki Pevalek, Nostoc spongiaeforme Agardh ex Born. & Flah.., Calothrix marchica Lemmermann, Scytonema chiastum Geitler, Aphanocapsa elachista var. irregularis Boye-Petersen and Arthrospira platensis var. nonconstricta (Barneji) Desikachary. They were collected in the Lihuel Calel National Park, La Pampa Province.
23216532|This is the third contribution to the knowledge of the micromycetes growing on Nothofagus dombeyi leaf-litter. A new genus of Hyphomycetes is proposed: Pulvinotrichum with P. album as type species, and the following new species are described and illustrated: Pleurocatena foliicola, Chalara brevicaule, Ch. dualis, Cylindrocolla macrospora. Species of Fungi Imperfecti first recorded for Argentina are described and illustrated; also mentioned one Basidiomycetes on the same sustratum.
23230215|Flowering in bamboo is an unusual event. Documenting flowering individuals or populations provides valuable information about bamboo life cycles. Bambusa tuldoides is endemic to China but widely cultivated around the world. In Argentina, the first record of its cultivation dates back to 1943. There are no records of caryopses formation of this species in Argentina. We here report the flowering of a cultivated B. tuldoides clump and gather information about previous flowering events for this species in Argentina and neighboring countries occurring in the literature and herbarium collections. With this information, we estimate the flowering cycle of B. tuldoides in southernmost America to be approximately 23 years. Viable seed production is reported for the first time in Argentina. La floracin de un bamb es un evento particular. El registro de la floracin de una mata o una poblacin aporta datos precisos sobre los ciclos biolgicos. Bambusa tuldoides es una especie endmica de China y est ampliamente cultivada en todo el mundo. En la Argentina, la primera referencia sobre su cultivo es de 1943. No se han registrado fructificaciones de esta especie en la Argentina. Registramos la floracin de un ejemplar de B. tuldoides en cultivo y recolectamos datos sobre otros eventos de floracin de esta especie en la Argentina y pases limtrofes. Con esta informacin, estimamos el ciclo de floracin de B. tuldoides en Amrica austral en 23 aos aproximadamente. Registramos la produccin de frutos viables por primera vez en Argentina.
23217318|A modified method is proposed, where with only one template it is possible to assign immediately the correct category according to the chromosome classification (M, m, sm, st, t, T) of Levan et al. (Hereditas 52: 201-220, 1964) and to express the chromosome length in arbitrary units. Se propone un mtodo modificado para determinar la categora morfolgica de los cromosomas. Con este mtodo es posible, usando una sola plantilla, asignar inmediatamente la categora cromosmica (M, m, sm, st, t, T) de acuerdo con la clasificacin de Levan et al. (Hereditas 52: 201-220, 1964) y expresar la longitud del cromosoma en unidades arbitrarias.
23218923|Morus alba (Moraceae) amplification of its geographical area in Argentina and observations about its naturalization. Morus alba L. is recorded for Salta province and new regions of Buenos Aires province (Argentina). It grows along the railroad, roads and uncultivated lands. A description of causes determining its naturalization is given.
23217314|Taxonomic novelties for the Flora of Jujuy, Argentina. A new species of Calceolaria (Scrophulariaceae) is described: C. fabrisii Botta et Cabr. The presence of Centunculus minimus L. (Primulaceae) in Jujuy is confirmed and two new species for Argentina are cited: Siphocampylus orbignianus A. DC. (Lobeliaceae) and Tridax procumbens L. (Compositae). Two new species of Compositae not included in Cabrera, Flora de Jujuy are added: Artemisia verlotorum Lamott. and Senecio madagascariensis Poir.
darwiniana.3.2.235|Three new species of
23223015|The karyotypes, number of satellites and maximal nucleoli number are recorded for Ephedra ochreata Miers (10 m + 4 st, 6 SAT, 6 nucleoli), E. rupestris Benth. (10 m + 4 st, 4 SAT, 4 nucleoli) and E. viridis Coville (20 m + 8 st, 8 SAT). Diploid and polyploid taxa of Ephedra are based on a fundamental haplokaryotype composed of 5 m and 2 smaller st, which is presumed to be very old (150 million years ago or more, before the final dismemberment of the Pangea) as it occurs in Asia, Africa and both Americas and in different sections of the genus. Ephedra is an example of extreme karyotype conservation.
23216528|Twelve entities of Lathyrus are recognized for Patagonia. Six of them are presently discussed. A new combination is established: L. pastorei (Burk.) Rossow as well as new synonymes proposed. A key for the identification of the varieties of the L. magellanicus complex is given. L. magellanicus var. longipes is mentioned for the first time for Argentina. All the mentioned species have been illustrated.
23223869|The length and diameter of buds were studied for Nothofagus pumilio and N. dombeyi (Fagaceae) in shoots from different types of axes of young trees growing in natural conditions. Variations in bud length according to bud position on the shoot and on the tree were assessed. In both species, shoots with more than 20 nodes developed buds with wide ranges of length and number of nodes, whereas smaller shoots always developed small buds consisting of a low number of nodes. In shoots with more than 20 nodes, bud length was maximum in buds close to the shoot's distal end. Buds of N. pumilio were almost twice longer and wider than those of N. dombeyi for each shoot size category considered. The number of nodes for buds of a given length was higher for N. dombeyi than N. pumilio. Multiple linear regressions including bud length, bud diameter, bud position on its parent shoot, and number of nodes of the parent shoot as independent variables, explained 81% and 74% of the variation in the number of leaf primordia per bud for N. pumilio and N. dombeyi respectively. Se estudi la longitud y el dimetro de yemas de Nothofagus pumilio y N. dombeyi (Fagaceae) en brotes procedentes de diferentes tipos de ejes de rboles jvenes desarrollados en condiciones naturales. Se evaluaron las variaciones de la longitud de las yemas segn su posicin sobre el brote portador y sobre el rbol. En ambas especies, los brotes con ms de 20 nudos desarrollaron yemas con un amplio rango de longitudes y de nmero de nudos, mientras que los brotes ms cortos desarrollaron siempre yemas pequeas y de bajo nmero de nudos. Para los brotes con ms de 20 nudos, las yemas de mayor tamao fueron aquellas prximas al extremo distal del brote. Las yemas de N. pumilio fueron aproximadamente dos veces ms largas y anchas que las de N. dombeyi en una posicin similar. Para cada longitud de yema considerada, el nmero de nudos de la yema fue mayor para N. dombeyi que para N. pumilio. Regresiones lineares mltiples que incluyeron como variables independientes a la longitud y el dimetro de la yema, la posicin de la yema sobre el brote portador y el nmero de nudos del brote portador, permitieron explicar el 81% y el 74% de la variacin en el nmero de nudos por yema de N. pumilio y de N. dombeyi, respectivamente.
23223005|In this paper the systematic revision of Thelypteris subg. Amauropelta from the 3 South Brazilian states is given and 20 species are described for this region. A brief local history of the taxa is presented. The systematic treatment includes a description of the family, a key for the Brazilian genera of Thelypteridaceae, a description of the subgenus Amauropelta and a key for its taxa. Descriptions, regional synonymies, interspecific relations, illustrations, ecology and geographic distribution for all entities are also given. A new species and seven new combinations are proposed and many names are cited or applied for the first time for plants of this region.
23215601|Nine species and one variety of Deyeuxia (Gramineae) of Patagonia are described and illustrated. Except D. patagonica Speg. and D. diemii Rg., which are only found in Argentina, and D. viridiflavescens (Poir.) Kunth, exclusive to Chile, all the other taxa are common to both countries. A new combination is established: D. poaeoides (Steud.) Rg., as well as new synonymes proposed. A key for the identification of the accepted entities, as well as a list of excluded or doubtful species for Patagonia is included.
23217345|Revision of the genus Lucilia (Compositae, Inuleae). This work is a taxonomic revision of the Southamerican genus Lucilia Cass. There are descriptions, ilustrations, and maps of geographical distribution for its twenty-two species. The genus Belloa Remy, Merope Wedd. y Pachyrhynchus DC. are reduced to synonymy of Lucilia. Two sections are recognized: sect. Lucilia y sect. Lucilioides DC., for the last one two series are proposed: ser. Lucilioides y ser. Paralucilia nov. ser. A key for the identification of sections, series and species is given, as well as a list of excluded and doubtful species. A complete synonymy and a list of the herbarium material examined are included for all the species. The systematic treatment is preceded by an analysis of morphological and anatomical characters: habit, stems, leaves, types of trichomes and stomata, corollas, style-branches, phyllaries, anthers, achenes, pappi and capitula disposition.
23230196|A new combination, Werauhia montana is proposed and their relationships whit W. nephrolepis are discussed. Aechmea bromeliifolia, Pitcairnia maidifolia, and Tillandsia balbisiana are reported for first time in El Salvador. Se propone una nueva combinacin, Werauhia montana y se discuten sus relaciones con W. nephrolepis. Adems se registra por primera vez, la presencia de Aechmea bromeliifolia, Pitcairnia maidifolia y Tillandsia balbisiana para El Salvador.
23222565|The present work deals with the taxonomic study of the species of Calliandra Benth. that grow in Argentina. As a consequence of this investigation, eight species distributed in four series, can be listed: Ser. Laetevirentes Benth., with C. formosa (Kunth) Benth. and C. portoricensis (Jacq.) Benth.; Ser. Macrophyllae Benth., with C. llongipes Benth.; Ser. Pedicellatae Benth., with C. brevicaulis M. Micheli; Ser. Nitidae Benth., with C. selloi (Sprengel) J. F. Macbr., C. parvifolia (Hook. f. et Arn.) Speg., C. foliolosa Benth. and C. tweedii Benth. C. portoricensis and C. longipes are cited taking into account only herbarium specimens collected in 1913 and 1918 respectively. The authoress did not find these species at her fieldwork. C. brachyandra Speg. is synonymous of Pithecellobium scalare Griseb.; C. grisebachiana (Harms) Speg. and the var. carolae Speg. are synonymous of Pithecellobium grisebachianum Harms; C. hirsuta Benth., cited by Spegazzini in 1925 doesn't grow in Argentina, the specimens studied by him belongs undoubtedly to C. foliolosa. Some morphological features described here, as floral heteromorphism within one inflorescence, venation patterns of calyx and corolla, stipules form and character (caducous or persistent), are useful in the present treatment.
23213866|The author presents a revision of the monocotyledoneous family Alismataceae in Argentina. Keys for 3 species of Sagittaria and 10 species of Echinodorus are given. The following new species are described: E. austro-americanus Rataj (Per, Bolivia, Paraguay, Brazil, Argentina) and E. argentinensis Rataj, from Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay. The material of 32 Herbaria of the world, has been examined; the abbreviations used for these institutions are those by Lanjouw and Stafleu, Index Herbariorum, Utrecht, 1964.
23223894|Thirthy-four taxa of fresh-water Cyanophyta included in the Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae, Microchaetaceae, Scytonemataceae and Rivulariaceae were identified. Six species, Arthrospira gomontiana Setch., Oscillatoria acuta Brhl et Biswas, Phormidium truncatum Lemmerm., Scytonema schmidtii Gomont, Homoeothrix gracilis (Hansg.) Komrek et Kovcik, Gloeotrichia rabenhorstii Bornet and one form, Oscillatoria salina Biswas f. mayor Desikachary are described and illustrated for the first time for Argentina. Among the remaining taxa, seven species previously reported for Argentina represent new records for La Pampa province. Ecological observations on habitat, as well as geographical distribution, are included. Se identificaron 34 taxones de Cyanophyta de aguas continentales incluidas en las familias Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae, Microchaetaceae, Scytonemataceae y Rivulariaceae. Seis especies, Arthrospira gomontiana Setch., Oscillatoria acuta Brhl et Biswas, Phormidium truncatum Lemmerm., Scytonema schmidtii Gomont, Homoeothrix gracilis (Hansg.) Komrek et Kovcik, Gloeotrichia rabenhorstii Bornet y una forma Oscillatoria salina Biswas f. mayor Desikachary, se describen e ilustran por primera vez para Argentina. Entre los taxones restantes, siete especies se reportan por primera vez para la provincia de La Pampa. Se incluyen observaciones ecolgicas sobre el hbitat y la distribucin geogrfica.
23223252|Cluster analysis and ordination by principal component analysis (PCA) were used to study phenetic relationships among the Argentine species of Alstroemeriaceae and to point out the characters that contribute to the differentiation between Alstroemeria L. and Bomarea Mirb. A total of 123 specimens (analysis 1) and 15 taxa (analysis 2) were examined and 46 morphological characters were used: 17 quantitative and 29 qualitative ones. The results point out the clear phenetic distinction between Alstroemeria and Bomarea species and also among species within both genera. A dendrogram produced by UPGMA cluster analysis on standardized characters and the PCA analysis show the differentiation of Bomarea species into two groups: B1 includes Bomarea stans Krnzl., B. boliviensis Baker (subgen. Sphaerine) and B. edulis (Tuss.) Herb. (subgen. Bomarea) respectively, and B2 with B. macrocephala Pax. (subgen. Wichuraea). For the Alstroemeria species, four groups are recognized: A1 is formed by Alstroemeria apertiflora Baker, A. bakeri Pax and A. isabellana Herb.; A2 comprises two subgroups, A2a: A. psittacina Lehm., A. presliana Herb. and A. aurea Graham and A2b with A. pygmaea Herb. and A. patagonica Phil. (with A. patagonica Phil. f. biflora Ravenna). A. pseudospathulata Ehr. Bayer (A3) and A. andina Phil. subsp. venustula (Phil.) Ehr. Bayer (A4) have isolated positions.
90005715|The taxonomic revision of the genus
23212149|A detailed study, based upon new materials and cultures, as well as typical specimens, of Poroniopsis Bruchi Speg., led to the conclusion that this genus belongs to the Fungi Imperfecti rather than the Ascomycetes as described, and that it is synonymous with Hypocreodendron sanguineum P. Henn. The sterile stromatic form Rhizomorpha formicarum Speg., is considered also a synonym. It could not be ascertained whether Xylaria is the perfect stage. The fungus develops well in culture  the description of which is added  and forms conidial heads on the stroma, which are phototropic. The conidiophores arise in palisades, and some are naked, whilst others are formed in nests which assume the aspect of "pycnidia" in the specimens collected in nature.
23215701|Two species of Ephedra, E. breana Phil. and E. ochreata Miers are studied from the anatomical point of view. The two species can be distinguished by their anatomical characters (see the corresponding table). The resin-secreting epidermal cells of the young stems are described and illustrated in this paper for the first time, according to the bibliography at hand.
23226689|Alstroemeria (Alstroemeriaceae) is a genus endemic to South America. In Chile, this genus is distributed from the northern end to Patagonia, with a diversification center in central Chile. Precisely in this central zone grows Alstroemeria ligtu with its three subspecies: A. ligtu subsp. incarnata, A. ligtu subsp. simsii and A. ligtu subsp. ligtu. A comparative study of the karyotype with DAPI or acetic orcein of 5 populations of A. ligtu subsp. ligtu from the VIII Region, and one population of A. ligtu subsp. simsii from the V Region was made. The karyotype observed in these six studied populations was asymmetric, with 2n=2x=16 chromosomes. The populations of A. ligtu subsp. ligtu presented a haploid formula conformed by four metacentric chromosomes (pairs 1 and 2 with microsatellites), one submetacentric chromosome with a microsatellite, and three telocentric chromosomes with microsatellites. The haploid formula of A. ligtu subsp. simsii was: five metacentric chromosomes (pair 2 with a microsatellite, and pair 6 with a secondary constriction) and three telocentric chromosomes with satellite. Therefore, the karyotype of A. ligtu is variable, and changes at chromosomal level have probably contributed to the diversification of this species. Alstroemeria (Alstroemeriaceae) es un gnero endmico de Amrica del Sur. En Chile, este gnero se distribuye desde el extremo norte hasta la Patagonia, y la mayor diversidad de especies se encuentra en la zona central. Precisamente en esta zona crece Alstroemeria ligtu con sus 3 subespecies: A. ligtu subsp. ligtu, A. ligtu subsp. incarnata, A. ligtu subsp. simsii. Se realiz un estudio comparativo del cariotipo de individuos provenientes de 5 poblaciones de A. ligtu subsp. ligtu de la VIII Regin, y de una poblacin de A. ligtu subsp. simsii de la V Regin, mediante tincin de los cromosomas con DAPI u orcena actica. Las seis poblaciones estudiadas presentaron un cariotipo asimtrico, con 2n=2x=16 cromosomas. Las poblaciones de A. ligtu subsp. ligtu presentaron una frmula haploide conformada por cuatro cromosomas metacntricos (los pares 1 y 2 con microsatlites), uno submetacntrico con microsatlite y tres telocntricos con microsatlites. La poblacin de A. ligtu subsp. simsii se caracteriz por poseer cinco cromosomas metacntricos (el par 2 con un microsatlite y el par 6 con una constriccin secundaria) y tres cromosomas telocntricos con satlite. Estos resultados indican que el cariotipo en A. ligtu es variable, y es probable que cambios a nivel cromosmico hayan contribuido en la diversificacin de esta especie.
23223229|Synopsis of the 4 Argentinian species of Capsicum, which were dealt by the author almost 50 years ago, i.e.: C. chaconse Hunz., C. eximium Hunz., C. baccatum L. var. baccatum (= C. microcarpum Cav.) and C. flexuosum Sendt. (= C. schottianum auct. non Sendt., A. T. Hunziker, Darwiniana 9: 244. 1950). Each species is described; the respective common names and geographical distributions are also indicated.
23223203|This is the second contribution to the study of lignicolous marine fungi from the coast of Mar del Plata city, Argentina. Twelve species were collected from driftwood, intertidal wood and drift culms found in rocks and sand beaches. Ten species of Ascomycotina are described: Buergenerula spartinae Kohlm. & R. V. Gessner, Chaetosphaeria chaetosa Kohlm., Corollospora maritima Werderm., Halosarpheia trullifera (Kohlm.) E. B. G. Jones, S. T. Moss & Cuomo, H. viscosa (I. Schmidt) Shearer & J. L. Crane ex Kohlm. & Volkm-Kohlm., Halosphaeriopsis mediosetigera (Cribb & J. W. Cribb) T. W. Johnson, Wettsteinina marina (H. Ellis & Everh.) Shoemaker & C. E. Babc., Leptosphaeria oraemaris Linder, Passeriniella obiones (P. Crouan & H. Crouan) K. D. Hyde & Mouzouras, Remispora maritima Linder; one species of Deuteromycotina: Phoma glomerata Wollenw. & Hochapfel and one species of Basidiomycotina: Digitatispora marina Doguet. Seven are new records for Argentina and four of them also for South America.
23213051|Contribution towards the knowledge of the neotropical "Salviniaceae". II. Salvinia auriculata Aublet. In the present paper, the second of the series with started with a study of the sporophyte of S. oblongifolia, the author repords some dates and adds comments of the following aspects of S. auriculata: leaf dimorphism, venation, experiments of decapitation of the submerged organs and the lateral branches; leaf anatomy with the special emphasis on the development air chambers and hair and papilla formation; ramificacin of the submerged organs and its significance for the identification of S. auriculata and related species
23218953|Effect of prolongued floodings in a grassland of the Salado Basin (Province of Buenos Aires - Argentine) - Dynamics of the grassland as a whole and of Ambrosia tenuifolia (Asteraceae). This paper deals with the response of Ambrosia tenuifolia and other species of the Salado Basin grasslands to a long flood period. The following are the main conclusions: 1) Ambrosia tenuifolia and others dictoyledonous species do not tolerate floods of large duration such as the one occured in 1978 in the Salado Basin. 2) Grasses do not stop growing during the flood period and might therefore occupy niches released by the affected dicotyledonous.
23225132|This is a revision of Danaea, the only neotropical genus of the Marattiaceae. Several collections were analized, and both external and internal detailed morphology of the sporophyte was studied. Taxonomy of the species, a key to identify them, comments on their affinities, geographical distribution, altitudinal range, cytology and ecology are also given. Seventeen species of the genus are recognized: D. alata, D. carillensis, D. crispa, D. elliptica, D. humilis, D. imbricata, D. jenmanii, D. mazeana, D. moritziana, D. nodosa, D. oblanceolata, D. plicata, D. simplicifolia, D. tenera, D. trichomanoides, D. ulei and D. wendlandii. Danaea shares several characters with the other four marattiaceous genera (Angiopteris, Archangiopteris, Christensenia and Marattia), as naked, carnose polycyclostelic amylaceous rhizomes with internal collenchymatous tissues, excentric simple starch grains, geminate stipules, pulvinules, types of epidermal patterns of the laminae, marattiaceous stomata, presence of intercellular pectic protuberances in the mesophyll cells (IPP), and mucilage secreting system. However, postrate and erect rhizomes; number of pulvinules in the stipes; simple or 1-pinnate, dimorphic laminae; pinna outline; entire, undulate or crispate pinna margins; glandular indument (both mucilaginiferous trichomes and protoscales); lamina texture; venation patterns; epidermal patterns of the epiphylls and hypophylls which vary at the specific level; both normal and porocyclocytic marattiaceous stomata; mostly filamentose IPP, and the morphology of the exopore in echinate spores are considered good diagnostic characters related to Danaea. Division of the lamina, indument, lamina and pinna outline, number of pinnae, type of pinna margin, lamina texture, venation patterns, presence or absence of terminal pinnae or gemae, and color of veins and the hypophylls are good morphological characteres to identify the species both in fresh and dry specimens, and they were used to prepare the key to identify the species, along with other traits such as rhizome types, which can be additionally useful to complete plant identifications in the field. Esta es una revisin de Danaea, el nico gnero neotropical de Marattiaceae. Se estudiaron numerosas colecciones y se efectu un anlisis detallado de los caracteres de la morfologa externa e interna del esporfito. Tambin se incluye una actualizacin de la taxonoma de las especies, una clave para determinarlas, comentarios acerca de sus afinidades, distribucin geogrfica, rango altitudinal, citologa y ecologa. Se reconocen diecisiete especies: D. alata, D. carillensis, D. crispa, D. elliptica, D. humilis, D. imbricata, D. jenmanii, D. mazeana, D. moritziana, D. nodosa, D. oblanceolata, D. plicata, D. simplicifolia, D. tenera, D. trichomanoides, D. ulei y D. wendlandii. Danaea comparte con los otros cuatro gneros de Marattiaceae (Angiopteris, Archangiopteris, Christensenia y Marattia) los rizomas desnudos, carnosos, policiclostlicos, amilceos, con tejidos de sostn colenquimticos; el almidn de granos simples excntricos; las estpulas geminadas amilceas; la presencia de pulvnulos; los tipos de modelos epidrmicos; los estomas maraticeos; la presencia de protuberancias intercelulares pcticas (PIP) del mesofilo de las frondas y el sistema secretor de muclago. Sin embargo, los rizomas rastreros o erectos; el nmero de pulvnulos en el estpite; las lminas dimrficas simples o 1-pinnadas; los mrgenes enteros, ondulados o crespos; el indumento glandular (tricomas y protoscamas mucilaginferos); la textura y patrones de venacin de las pinnas; las combinaciones de los modelos epidrmicos de epifilos e hipofilos; los estomas maraticeos tpicos y/o porociclocticos; las PIP predominantemente filamentosas y la morfologa del exoporio en las esporas monoletes equinadas, son rasgos tpicos de Danaea cuya variacin permite delimitar las especies. La divisin de la lmina, el indumento, el contorno de la lmina y las pinnas, el nmero de pares, margen, textura y venacin de las pinnas, la presencia o ausencia de pinnas terminales o yemas, el color de las venas y de los hipofilos son buenos caracteres exomorfolgios para determinar las especies, tanto en material fresco como herborizado, y sobre la base de los mismos se ha elaborado la clave de las especies, incluyendo adems otros, como los tipos de rizomas, que pueden constituir un rasgo adicional til para determinar las especies en el campo.
23228251|Hoffmannia peckii is reported for the first time for Argentina, in San Pedro, Misiones. This is the second species of Hoffmannia recorded for Argentina together with H. australis. A lectotype is designed fo H. peckii. Descriptions, illustrations, a map and a key of the Argentinean species of Hoffmannia are included. Se cita Hoffmannia peckii por primera vez para Argentina, en San Pedro, Misiones. Esta es la segunda especie de Hoffmannia registrada para la flora argentina, junto a H. australis. Se designa un lectotipo para H. peckii, y se incluyen descripciones, ilustraciones, un mapa y una clave para reconocer las dos especies.
23227996|Ruellia simplex, the name of a species of Ruellia described from Cuba in 1870, is the oldest name for the neotropical species generally known as Ruellia tweediana, Ruellia coerulea and Ruellia malacosperma. Therefore Ruellia simplex has priority and reduces tha latter names to synonym. This species has an amphitropical distribution in the New World, being found in southern United States, Mexico and the Antilles, and in western Bolivia, southwestern Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and northeastern Argentina. Ruellia simplex, el nombre de una especie de Ruellia descripta para Cuba en 1870, es el nombre ms antiguo para una especie neotropical generalmente conocida como Ruellia tweediana, Ruellia coerulea y Ruellia malacosperma. Por lo tanto Ruellia simplex tiene prioridad y reduce estos ltimos nombres a la sinonimia. Esta especie tiene una distribucin anfitropical en el Nuevo Mundo, encontrndose en el sur de Estados Unidos, Mxico y las Antillas, y en el oeste de Bolivia, sudoeste de Brasil, Paraguay, Uruguay, y noreste de Argentina.
23213829|In continuation of his studies on South American Leguminosae, the author presents the following taxonomic novelties: The area of Mimosa daleoides Benth. is extended into central Bolivia. Desmanthus chacoensis Burk. is reduced to synonymy of D. brevipes Turn.; as a result, one bicentric North and South American species is recognized. Comments on the distribution of other species of this genus follow. The subdivision of Piptadenia Benth. sens. lat., as proposed by Brenan, is accepted and the 5 resulting genera commented. There is Parapiptadenia excelsa (Gris.) Burk. nov. comb. from Northwestern Argentina. The bicentric genus Goldmania is fully treated with two species, G. foetida and G. paraguensis (figs. 1-2). Bauhinia uruguayensis Benth. is redescribed and for the first time illustrated (figs. 3-4). Cassia (Chamaecrista) pedersenii nov. spec. is described from Corrientes, Argentina (figs. 5-6). Yuearatonia Burk. gen. nov. Papilion. Galegeae, is described from Ecuador with one species, based on Sesbania brenningii Harms (figs. 7-8). Astralagus anni-novi nov. spec. from N Patagonia, appears to be the first subspinescent Argentine species of this genus (figs. 9-10). Muellera fluvialis (Lindm.) nov. comb. replaces the wrong M. glaziovii (Taub.) Chod. et Hassl. for this tree of the Gran Chaco region; differences with M. frutescens and Lonchocarpus are given (figs. 11-12). Finally, the new species Lonchocarpus nudiflorens is proposed for a tree growing in the woods along the Paraguay river (figs. 13-14).
23222525|On the nectary, nectar and floral visitors in Ligaria cuneifolia (Loranthaceae). Nectary structure, nectar-chemical composition, and floral visitors were studied in natural populations of the monotypical genus Ligaria Tieghem. Blooming takes place from autumn to spring. Flowers are perfect, hexamerous, actinomorphic, chasmogamous, and protandrous. The showy red monochlamideous perianth forms a tube in its lower part due to interwoven papilla-like epidermal cells from contiguous tepals. Stamens are adnate to the tube and anthers are dorsifixed and versatile. The ovary is inferior and the style is cylindrical bearing a stylar nectary in its base. Hemiparacytic stomata were found on the apical part of the nectary. This species is hummingbird-pollinated. Chlorostilbon aureoventris was observed cropping nectar. These hummingbirds tend to be intra-specifically territorial. Bumblebees (Xylocopa sp.) are L. cuneifolia (R. et P.) Tieghem nectar-robers piercing the tubular base of the perianth to take the nectar. Considering the nectar chemical composition, no significant variation was detected among the three studied samples of Ligaria growing on three different host plants. The mean sugar nectar composition was found to be of a sucrose-dominant species: 56.5%, 15.9%, and 27.5% for sucrose, fructose, and glucose respectively. Amino acids, lipids, reducing acids, and phenols were detected in all samples, whereas alkaloids and proteins were not. The range of sugar concentration was 28-36% according to the sample.
23211595|Las especies del gnero Glandularia constituyen un material apropiado para llevar a cabo estudios de sistemtica experimental. Existe una correlacin lineal y directa entre el volumen de los granos de polen y la longitud del pistilo en los distintos biotipos estudiados en Glandularia. De las observaciones citolgicas llevadas a cabo en el hbrido G. santiaguensis  G. laciniata, se concluye que es un hbrido estructural.
23223013|After 33 years, a new flowering of a male plant of Cycas revoluta Thunb. took place in the Botanical Garden of the Facultad de Agronoma in Buenos Aires. As a consequence, fertile seeds were obtained from a female plant growing nearby. These seeds gave origin to several seedlings which are being cultivated at present.
23225135|Bothriochloa perforata has been recorded and excluded for the Argentinian flora more than once. The identification of numerous specimens from central and north western Argentina reaffirms its presence in the country. Since it has been usually confused with B. edwardsiana, descriptions and illustrations of both are provided along with their chromosome numbers. A key is also included. Bothriochloa perforata ha sido registrada y excluida de la flora argentina en varias oportunidades. La identificacin de numerosos individuos procedentes del noroeste y centro del pas reafirma su presencia en nuestra flora. Dado que usualmente se la ha confundido con B. edwardsiana, se incluyen descripciones e ilustraciones de ambas, sus nmeros cromosmicos y una clave para su identificacin.
23230248|Dioscorea volckmannii, known until now from Valparaiso to Talca provinces in Chile, is recorded for the first time for the Argentinean flora in the province of Mendoza. The species is described and illustrated, and environmental observations are included. Dioscorea volckmannii, conocida hasta el presente para las provincias de Valparaso a Talca en Chile, se cita por primera vez para la flora Argentina, en la provincia de Mendoza. Se describe e ilustra la especie y se incluyen observaciones ambientales.
23218940|Phenetics of Chuquiraga (Compositae-Mutisieae): a numerical analysis. Cluster analysis (UPGMA) and ordination by principal component analysis (PCA) were performed on the data of 52 morphological characters from the 19 species of xerophyllous bushes of the Southamerican (Andean-Patagonian) genus Chuquiraga. The results generally agree in the formation of two large groups which match with sections Chuquiraga and Acanthophylla of the previous classification. Section Chuquiraga seems to be more variable in respect to discriminatory characters than sect. Acanthophylla, and also has a more ample latitudinal distribution. Within this first section two subgroups, which correspond with series Chuquiraga and Parviflora, appeared in the PCA analysis. In most of the numerical treatments section Acanthophylla shows three distinct subgroups which also have distinct distributions, specially in regard to elevation. The characters that discriminate all these groups in the genus are principally the anatomical and exomorphological structures of the leaves, the presence or absence of axillary spines, and the length of the capitulum, all of which coincide with diagnostic characters used to define these sections and series in previous works. These characters not only show some relation with physical factors such as latitude and altitude and associated climatic variations, but also with biotic factors such as type of pollinator (hummingbirds or insects). This suggests that both climatic changes and shift in pollination syndromes may have affected the evolution and diversification of the genus.
23222995|Abaxial leaf epidermis of 18 plants of Paspalum distichum Linnaeus [= Paspalum paspalodes (Michaux) Scribner] (2n = 40, 50, 60 and hiperpentaploids) and 5 plants of P. vaginatum Swartz (2n = 20) were analyzed in order to determine the differences between the species and the cytotypes. Fourteen qualitative and quantitative characters were registered and multivariate analysis was applied to the data obtained. Three well differenciated groups of individuals could be distinguished, constituited by: 1) tetraploid plants of P. distichum, 2) pentaploid, hiperpentaploid and hexaploid plants of P. distichum and 3) P. vaginatum.
23218954|News in Compositae for Argentina. A new species of Mikania for Argentina. Mikania lundiana D.C. from Misiones, is described and ilustrated. The presence of Vernonia nudiflora Less, in the provinces of Corrientes, Entre Ros and La Pampa and Porophyllum ruderale (Jacq.) Cass. in Buenos Aires province is communicated. Both species are not included in published regional floras.
23215619|This paper is preliminar to a research on Fungal Succession on leaves of Austrosouthamerican species of Nothofagus. Deals with some foliicolous Hyphomycetes and Ascomycetes, which are first recorded for Argentina and on N. dombeyi leaves, as Candelabrum spinulosum, Idriella lunata, Anungitea fragilis, Gyrothrix pedicelata, Cylindrocarpon tenue, Chalara brevipes, Ch. nothofagi, Ch. hughesii, Mirandina typica, Ulocladium atrum, Botrytis cinerea, and Gelasinospora reticulispora. A new combination, Polyscytalum fuegianum (Speg.) Gam. et all. and three new species, Triposporium foliicolum Gam. et all., Phialea nothofaginea Gam. et all. and Trochila tetraspora Mller et Gam. are proposed. Synonymy between Dyctiochaeta Speg. and Codinaea Maire is stablished.
23222524|The foliar epidermis of the chilean Loranthaceae and its relation with the ecology. The characteristics of the foliar epidermis of the chilean Loranthaceae species are described. Information about their ecology, geographic distribution and a key based on certain features suchs as: size, orientation, disposition and density of stomata are given. The species are charactrized by paracytic stomatal type. Five of the species have anphistomatic leaves: Desmaria mutabilis (P. et E.) Van Tiegh. ex Jacks., Eremolepis punctulata (Clos) Griseb., Ligaria cuneifolia (R. et P.) Van Tiegh., Tristerix tetrandrus (R. et P.) Mart. and T. verticillatus (R. et P.) Barlow et Wiens, and two species have hipostomatic leaves: Lepidoceras kingii Hook. f. and Nothanthera heterophylla (R. et P.) G. Don.
darwiniana.2.1.39|The present study is based in the concept of chorological categories or chorotypes, founding a new hypothesis of biogeographic classification of Peru based on the distribution of the Asteraceae. The information collected resulted in 1669 species of Asteraceae registered in Peru (until 2008), distributed in 255 genera. The Peruvian territory was divided into 218 Report Districts representing 24 departments divided into strips of 500 m of altitude. The biogeographical database of Asteraceae was obtained by crossing an updated database of species records with the Report Districts, expressed in a presence-absence matrix. The total data set was analyzed, resulting in 14 preliminar chorotypes proposed for Peru: Abiseo, Amotape, Andino, Apurimac-Huancavelica, Chachapoyas-Hunuco, Huancabamba, Huascarn, Ica, Lima-Piura, Loreto-Ucayali, Manu, Pasco, Sandia, and Tacna.
23230213|This ethnobotanical research includes plant resources used by "guaranies" from Misiones Province, Argentina, to make musical instruments. These instruments, used in religious ceremonies and other traditional celebrations are described. The plants used to make them are listed. "Guaranies" names, procedures to acquire and application of these plant resources are also provided. Se presenta un estudio etnobotnico en el cual se toman en consideracin los recursos vegetales que utilizan los guaranes de la Provincia de Misiones, Argentina, para elaborar los instrumentos musicales que utilizan en sus ceremonias religiosas y otros eventos propios de su cultura. Se describen los instrumentos, se detallan las plantas con las que se confeccionan y sus nombres vulgares. Asimismo, se brinda informacin sobre su obtencin y aplicaciones.
23223895|A review of materials of Epithemia zebra var. elongata Grunow ex Frenguelli was carried out with the aim of establishing the validity of this taxon. Specimens of the Frenguelli collection and others, recently collected in Tierra del Fuego, were studied with light and scanning electron microscopes. The analysis of the variability of morphological and morphometric characters of three populations and the comparison with its allied taxa, Epithemia adnata (Ktzing) Brbisson and E. adnata var. minor (Peragallo & Hribaud) Patrick, showed no differences between them, so E. zebra var. elongata must be considered a synonym of E. adnata. Se revisaron materiales de Epithemia zebra var. elongata Grunow ex Frenguelli para establecer la validez de este taxn. Se estudiaron con microscopio ptico y electrnico de barrido, ejemplares de la coleccin Frenguelli y otros recientemente coleccionados en Tierra del Fuego. El anlisis de la variacin poblacional de los caracteres morfolgicos y morfomtricos, y la comparacin con los taxones afines: Epithemia adnata (Ktzing) Brbisson y E. adnata var. minor (Peragallo & Hribaud) Patrick, demostr que no existen diferencias entre ellos por lo que E. zebra var. elongata debe ser considerada sinnimo de E. adnata.
23215543|Se ha estudiado comparativamente dos gneros monotpicos de Epacridaceae, confundidos en el pasado: Lebetanthus (L. myrsinites (Lam.) Dusn) de Amrica austral y Prionotes (P. cerinthoides (Labill.) R. Br.) de Tasmania. Se ha llegado a la conclusin que se trata de dos gneros perfectamente diferenciables. Se ha confeccionado una lista de caracteres diferenciales, se han ilustrado ambos gneros y realizado la descripcin y distribucin geogrfica de la especie americana. A comparative study has been made of two monotipic genera of Epacridaceae which have been confused in the past: Lebetanthus (L. myrsinites (Lam.) Dusn) of South America, and Prionotes (P. cerinthoides (Labill.) R. Br.) of Tasmania. The conclusion has been reached that the two genera are distinct and can be characterized clearly. A list of differential characters is given, a discusion of these, illustrations of the two genera, as well as the geographic distribution of the American species.
23216517|The southamerican genus Bromidium Nees et Meyen emend. Pilger is reinstated and included in the tribe Agrosteae. Critical remarks about the most closely related genus Agrostis, Deyeuxia, Podagrostis y Lachnagrostis have been made. Five species and one variety of Bromidium are described and illustrated. The new combinations were established: B. tandilensis (Kuntze) Rg. comb. nov. (south Brasil, Uruguay and Argentina), B. trisetoides (Steudel) Rg. comb. nov. (Chile) and B. ramboi (Parodi) Rg. comb. nov. (Brasil) B. anomalum (Trin.) Doell is reported the first time for Argentina. A key for the identification of the accepted entities, as well as a list of excluded or doubtful species are included.
23213905|The author presents a taxonomic revision of the genus Galactia (Leguminosae-Phaseoleae), as represented in the flora of South America. He devides the genus into three sections: Galactia, Odonia (Bertol.) nov., and Collaearia (Benth.) nov. (pag. 667). The 36 recognized species are keyed out on pages 668-672. Special attention has been paid to an accurate description and illustration of most species and varieties. In all instances a complete synonymy has been given and a list of all the herbarium material examined. The author takes into account not only the Argentine herbaria, but the most important European ones and some of the United Sates, having seen many type specimens or phototypes. He describes several new species and varieties or new names: G. lindenii n. sp., G. fiebrigiana n. sp., G. martioides n. sp., G. heringeri n. sp., G. nana n. sp.; several doubtful names are restablished, as f. i. G. latisiliqua Desv., G. dubia DC. A list of species to be excluded or donbious names and an Index complete this paper which is illustrated with 43 figures and 6 plates.  A. B.
23222566|This paper is a taxonomic revision of two South American genera of the tribe Colletiae: Retanilla and Trevoa (= Talguenea). The typification and the validity of the genera are discussed and only Trevoa Hook. (including Talguenea Miers) and Retanilla (D.C.) Brongn. are recognized. The morphological characters of taxonomic importance of each genus are described. Trevoa is a monotypic genus with T. quinquenervia Gill. et Hook, in central Chile. Retanilla with 4 species, R. trinervia (Gill. et Hook.) Hook. et Arn., R. ephedra (Vent.) Brongn., R. stricta Hook. et Arn. y R. patagonica (Speg.) nov. comb., inhabits Chile and Argentine Patagonia. For each species a description, illustration, geographical distribution, information about phenology and uses are included. Specimens with intermediate characters between Retanilla species were studied applying cluster analysis and ordination by principal component analysis (PCA). The morphological intermediacy was tested through Wells distance diagram. The results in all cases suggest that hybridization occurs. Specimens with hybrid characters between T. quinquenervia and R. trinervia are also described.
23218121|Karyological studies in Compositae. II. Meiotic chromosome numbers and observations were made in 17 taxa belonging to 9 different genera of Heliantheae, Astereae, Senecioneae and Cichoriae. The numbers include counts in 14 taxa that so far had never been investigated cytologically. These are as follows: Aspilia aurantiaca (n = 14 + 3IB), A. montevidensis var. setosa (n = 23), A. silphioides (n = 23), Cosmos peucedanifolius (n = 12), Galinsoga caracasana (n = 24), Polymnia macroscypha (n = 16), Verbesina lilloi (n = 34), V. nelidae (n = 34), Viguiera anchusaefolia (n = ca 34), V. salicifolia (n = ca 34), V. tucumanensis var. discoidea (n = 34), Baccharis articulata (n = 9), B. boliviensis (n = 9), B. punctulata (n = 9, n = 9 + 4 IB), B. salicifolia (n = 9), Liabum polymnoides (n = 12) and Hieracium microcephalum (n = 9). B chromosomes were observed in two species. In Aspilia aurantiaca 3 IB were observed. A persistent body was observed in first division up to telophase I in this species. This could be a persistent nucleolus or a nuclear body. In one individual of Baccharis punctulata 9 bivalents + 4B chromosomes were observed, the latter sometimes formed a ring. Other individuals from the same population had 1, 2 and ca 9 accesories. In both species the B chromosomes showed negative heteropycnosis during prophase I, separated reductionally at 1st anaphase and equationally at 2nd anaphase. The significance of the results are discussed in relation to previous karyological and systematic studies in the family.
23224213|A detailed floristic inventory as well as a preliminary phytogeographical analysis was conducted in an Andean secondary wet forest of NW of Colombia, in order to know the vascular species richness and the phytogeographical relationships. The floristic inventory revealed the presence of 712 vascular species distributed among 129 families, of which 17 belong to ferns and allies, with 69 species and 30 genera; 18 monocotyledon families, with 153 species and 87 genera, and 94 dicotyledon families, with 490 species and 290 genera. The best-represented plant families are Melastomataceae (36 species), Rubiaceae (36), Orchidaceae (30), Asteraceae (28), Poaceae (28), Piperaceae (24), Araceae (23), Fabaceae (20), Clusiaceae (18), Moraceae (18), Gesneriaceae (17), Mimosaceae (16), Solanaceae (15), Acanthaceae (14), and Polypodiaceae (13). The richest genera are Piper (17 species), Ficus (11), Psychotria (11), Inga (10), Anthurium (9), Miconia (9), Peperomia (7), Asplenium (6), Blechnum (6), Clidemia (6), Costus (6), Mikania (6), Selaginella (6), and Solanum (6). Regarding life forms, herbs are the best represented with 344 species (48,2%), followed by shrubs and trees (291 species, 41%), lianas (62 species, 8,7%), palms (12 species, 1,7%) and by arborescent herbs (3 species, 0,4%). There are 101 epiphytic or hemiepiphytic species belonging to 23 families. The richest families in epiphytes are Orchidaceae (23 species), Araceae (10), Bromeliaceae (8), Piperaceae (7) and Gesneriaceae (6), while the most common epiphytic genera are Peperomia (7 species), Anthurium (6), Elaphoglossum (5), Huperzia (4) and Trichomanes (4). There are 9 endemic species (1,3%). Some of the species collected are new to science or are new records for the flora of NW of South America. Nine species and 3 genera exhibit a disjunct distribution. The analyzed forest is floristically similar to lowland Neotropical forests. The phytogeographic analysis shows that 62,4% of the genera are neotropical, 25,8% are pantropical, 10% are cosmopolitan, 1,8% are holarctic, and that 15 genera have a tropical amphipacific distribution. Nine genera are confined to South America. Although the area studied was strongly modified, only 8 species are introduced or naturalized. The frequency of disturbances, such as fire, grazing, cutting, selective cutting, abandoned cultivat fields, maintains the area at early successional stages. Se realiz un inventario florstico detallado con el fin de documentar la riqueza de especies vasculares y un anlisis fitogeogrfico preliminar con el fin de estimar las relaciones fitogeogrficas de un bosque secundario pluvial andino del NO de Colombia. El inventario flortico muestra la existencia de 712 especies de plantas vasculares pertenecientes a 129 familias, de las cuales 17 son pteridfitos con 69 especies y 30 gneros; 18 familias de monocotiledneas con 153 especies y 87 gneros; y 94 familias de dicotiledneas con 490 especies y 290 gneros. Las familias ms diversas son Melastomataceae (36 sp.), Rubiaceae (36), Orchidaceae (30), Asteraceae (28), Poaceae (28), Piperaceae (24), Araceae (23), Fabaceae (20), Clusiaceae (18), Moraceae (18), Gesneriaceae (17), Mimosaceae (16), Solanaceae (15), Acanthaceae (14) y Polypodiaceae (13). Los gneros ms ricos son Piper (17 sp.), Ficus (11), Psychotria (11), Inga (10), Anthurium (9), Miconia (9), Peperomia (7), Asplenium (6), Blechnum (6), Clidemia (6), Costus (6), Mikania (6), Selaginella (6) y Solanum (6). De las formas de vida, las hierbas son las ms numerosas (344 especies, 48,2%), seguidas por los arbustos y rboles (91 especies, 41%), lianas (62 especies, 8,7%), palmeras (12 especies, 1,7%) y por las hierbas arborescentes (3 especies, 0,4%). Un nmero considerable de especies son epfitas o hemiepfitas (101 especies representantes de 23 familias). Las familias de epfitas ms ricas son Orchidaceae (23 especies), Araceae (10), Bromeliaceae (8), Piperaceae (7) y Gesneriaceae (6), mientras que los gneros epfitos ms diversos son Peperomia (7 especies), Anthurium (6), Elaphoglossum (5), Huperzia (4) y Trichomanes (4). Hay 9 especies endmicas (1,3% de endemismo). Algunas de las especies coleccionadas constituyen nuevas especies para la ciencia y/o son nuevos registros para la flora del NO de Sudmerica. Nueve especies y 3 gneros preentan una distribucin disyunta. El bosque analizado es florsticamente similar a los bosques neotropicales de tierras bajas, principalmente. El anlisis fitogeogrfico muestra que el 62,4% de los gneros es neotropical, el 25,8% es pantropical, el 10% es cosmolita, el 1,8% es de origen holrtico y que 15 de los gneros analizados presentan una distribucin anfipacfica tropical. Nueve gneros son sudamericanos. A pesar de que este bosque est fuertemente modificado, slo presenta 8 especies introducidas o naturalizadas. La frecuencia de las alteraciones (fuego, pastoreo, tala, tala selectiva, campos de cultivos abandonados) mantiene el rea en estados sucesionales tempranos.
23215589|As a result of the intensive exploration of certain parts of South America during the last years, a considerable herbarium material of Amaranthaceae has accumulated necessitating a revision of our concepts of many species, and revealing the existence of others as yet undescribed. The following are dealt with here. 1. Alternanthera austrotrinitatis (Ssgth.) n. comb.  This species was described as a variety of Alternanthera polygonoides (L.) R. Br. ex R. & S., a name of uncertain application, but is sufficiently distinct from any of its allies, chiefly on account of its subshrubby habit, to merit specific status. 2. Alternanthera flavescens H. B. K. An examination of the type collection established the identity of this species. Alternanthera floridana (Chapm.) Small is referred here as a synonym. 3. An examination of the type specimens of Alternanthera micrantha R. E. Fries and A. rufescens Ssgth, showed that these are identical; Fries' name (1920) takes precedence over Suessenguth's (1950). 4. Alternanthera ficoidea (L.) R. Br. ex R. & S. being illegitimate because of the earlier homonym A. ficoides PB., the author suggests using the name Alternanthera tenella Colla. 5. Gomphrena decumbens f. albiflora Chodat, G. perennis ssp. genuina var. genuina subvar. genuina f. parvifolia subf. decumbens Stuchl., G. decumbens f. aureiflora Chod., G. hygrophila f. luteiflora Herz., G. decumbens f. roseiflora Chod., and G. hygrophila var. subecristata Herz. are all referred to G. celosioides Mart., together with all taxa based on these or taxa of lower rank ascribed to them. They are all mere colour-forms, but for historical reasons the most distinct have been recognized as meriting the status forma. 6. Gomphrena ferruginea is described as new. Three varieties are described: var. ferruginea, var. adusta, and var. rustica.
23227128|Decomposer saprotrophic mycobiota of leaf litter from woods of Scutia buxifolia (Coronillo) was analyzed in both disturbed and non disturbed areas, evaluating their seasonal variations. The relative frecuency of each species was calculated, and this information was used to establish the Diversity Index (Shannon-Weaver), H; species richness, S; and evenness, E. From the analysis of the fungal community of Coronillo in both areas, we found the fungal community has not changed regarding disturbance, although its effects is reflected in the species richness and relative frecuency of the species. A principal component analysis showed seasonal tendencies: some species were found to be abundant in summer-autumn whereas others had higher abundance in winter-spring. La micobiota saprtrofa descomponedora de la hojarasca de bosques de Scutia buxifolia (Coronillo) fue analizada en dos reas: disturbada y no disturbada, evaluando su estacionalidad. Se calcul la frecuencia relativa porcentual de cada especie, estos datos fueron utilizados para calcular el Indice de Diversidad de Shannon y Weaver, H; la Riqueza especfica, S y la Equitatividad, E. Del anlisis de la comunidad fngica de Coronillo en ambas reas, la composicin especfica no vara con relacin al disturbio; sin embargo, se observan cambios en la riqueza especfica y la frecuencia relativa de las especies. Un anlisis de componentes principales mostr tendencias de estacionalidad: las especies se agruparon en verano-otoales e invierno-primaverales de acuerdo a su abundancia a lo largo del ao.
23230231|Gomesa bifolia (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Oncidiinae) is an epiphytic orchid that presents showy yellow flowers with brown markings on sepals and petals, fragranceless and with oil as reward. The floral biology of this species was studied in cultivated individuals to describe phenology, flower longevity, reproductive system (using manipulative treatment of cross-pollination vs. self-pollination) and floral pollinators. Moreover, direct observations were made on plants exposed outdoors to identify pollinators, describing their foraging behavior and the duration of visits. The results showed that G. bifolia is a mainly self-incompatible, non-autogamous and pollinator-dependent species. The fruit set in manually cross-pollination flowers (100%) was higher than the manually self-pollinated flowers (30.8%), whereas the control flowers did not set fruits. Females of Centris trigonoides (Apidae, Centridini) were the exclusive pollinators, and the visit rate was low. Several Neotropical orchids of the subtribe Oncidiinae offer floral oils to the pollinators, like the Malpighiaceae familiy. Our results allow inferring that both groups of plants would be part of a guild of species pollinated by oil-collecting bees and that the deceit/pollination syndrome should not be applied to all Oncidiinae flowers. Gomesa bifolia (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Oncidiinae) es una orqudea epfita que presenta vistosas flores amarillas con marcas marrones en los spalos y ptalos, carentes de fragancia y con aceite como recompensa. La biologa floral de esta especie fue estudiada en individuos cultivados para describir la fenologa, longevidad floral, conocer el sistema reproductivo (mediante tratamientos manipulativos de auto-polinizacin vs. polinizacin cruzada) y sus polinizadores. Adems, se realizaron observaciones directas sobre plantas expuestas al aire libre para identificar a los polinizadores, describiendo su comportamiento de forraje y la duracin de las visitas. Los resultados obtenidos revelan que G. bifolia es una especie principalmente auto-incompatible, no autgama y dependiente de sus polinizadores. La formacin de frutos en flores tratadas con polinizacin cruzada manual (100%) fue superior a las flores manualmente auto-polinizadas (30,8%); mientras que las flores no tratadas no formaron frutos. Los nicos polinizadores observados fueron hembras de Centris trigonoides (Apidae, Centridini), y la tasa de visitas fue baja. Numerosas orqudeas Neotropicales de la subtribu Oncidiinae ofrecen aceites florales a sus polinizadores, como lo hacen los representantes de la familia Malpighiaceae. Los resultados obtenidos tambin permiten inferir que ambos grupos de plantas estaran formando parte de un gremio de especies polinizadas por abejas colectoras de aceites y que el sndrome de polinizacin por engao no es verdadero para todas las especies de Oncidiinae.
23213052|Contribution to the knowledge of the neotropical "Salviniaceae". III. Salvinia herzogii nov. sp. In the present paper, the author describes a new species of Salvinia, S. herzogii, on Argentine material from Lower Paran River. It is probable that all specimens of this country determined S. auriculata Aublet, belong to this new species. A key for identification of S. herzogii and related species according to the leaf characters and configuration of the submerged organs is given.
23213064|The genus Heleocharis, subgenus Limnochloa (Nees) C. B. Clarke (Heleocharis, series Mutatae, Svenson), is represented in Argentina by four species: H. fistulosa, H. interstincta, H. plicarhachis, and H. strobilacea. The occurrence of H. fistulosa and H. plicarhachis within the country was previously known, while H. interstincta is recorded for the first time, and the new species H. strobilacea T. M. Pedersen, is described; the latter species also occurs in Paraguay. In addition, further material of H. fistulosa and H. plicarhachis is cited, enlarging their known geographical distribution.
23222554|The karyotype formula and DNA nuclear contents (2C) of Pintoa chilensis C. Gay were 4 m + 16 st (2n = 20) and 5.45 pg, respectively. Those of Sisyndite spartea E. Mey ex Sond. 18 m + 2 st (2n = 20) and 2.41 pg. Even when both taxa have a basic chromosome number of x = 10, the sharp differences in karyotype symmetry and DNA content between these two diploid species, together with the morphological distinctness and present distribution, suggest a rather distant and remote relationship. Some peculiarities of their karyotypic and nuclear characteristics are discussed and compared with species of the genus Bulnesia.
23211953|En la publicacin presente se describen y discuten las observaciones citolgicas realizadas sobre clulas madres del polen de Bouchea fluminensis (Vell.) Mold., relativas al fenmeno de citomixis encontrado en dicha especie. Las observaciones respectivas indican que en la especie estudiada el fenmeno obedece a causas naturales y su presencia constante en profase temprana de la meiosis sugiere la idea de que se trata de un proceso normal relacionado con la fisiologa de la planta. In this paper there are described and discussed the cytological observations made on pollen mother cells of Bouchea fluminensis (Vell.) Mold. (Fam. Verbenaceae), referred to the phenomenon of cytomixis found in that species. The respective observations indicate that in the studied species, the phenomenon is due to natural causes, and its constant manifestation in early meiotic prophase suggest the idea that it is a normal proccess related with the physiology of the plant.
23223906|The objective was to characterize floral structure and to analyze intraspecific flower variability in G. decorticans (Gillies ex Hok. et Arn.) Burkart, from the view of its reproductive biology. In order to this, three populations of G. decorticans from central Argentina were studied considering the morphology and anatomy of reproductive floral traits. The quantified variables were: size of the complete flower; corolla, anther cycles and gynoecium length; anther-stigma separation; number of pollen grains and ovules per flower; and number and size of nectarial stomata. The protogynous flowers are small (less than 1 cm), yellow, and they are arranged in racemes. The stamens (9 + 1) form two pentamerous cycles of different length. The gynoecium is composed by a hairy ovary with a style variable in length. Thus, the stigma can be observed over or under the position of the anthers. The nectary is persistent. Its upper part is located at the base of the staminal tube whereas its base is fused with the receptacle. Gynoecium and style length were positively correlated, whereas both flower size and filament length were inversely correlated to anther-stigma separation. In a broad sense, flower structure appears to be stable in G. decorticans. However, some characters were variable such as flower size and the number of nectarial estomata. This flower traits variation may affect pollination and/or seed set. Tres poblaciones de Geoffroea decorticans (Gillies ex Hok. et Arn.) Burkart de Argentina central fueron estudiadas con el objetivo de caracterizar la estructura de las flores y analizar la variabilidad floral intraespecfica, desde una perspectiva de la biologa reproductiva. Se consideraron la morfologa y anatoma de las estructuras florales y se cuantificaron los siguientes caracteres: longitud floral, de la corola, de los ciclos de filamentos estaminales y del gineceo, separacin antera-estigma, nmero de granos de polen y de vulos por flor, nmero y tamao de los estomas del nectario. Las flores son protginas, pequeas (menores de 1 cm), amarillas y estn reunidas en racimos. Los estambres (9+1) forman dos ciclos pentmeros de distinta longitud. El gineceo presenta ovario pubescente y estilo de longitud variable. De este modo, el estigma puede observarse por encima o por debajo de la posicin de las anteras. El nectario es persistente. Su parte superior est ubicada en la base del tubo estaminal, mientras que la porcin inferior se fusiona con el receptculo. El largo del gineceo se correlaciona positivamente con el largo del estilo, mientras que el tamao de la flor y el de los filamentos se correlacionan inversamente con la separacin antera-estigma. En lneas generales, la estructura floral es estable en G. decorticans. Sin embargo, algunos caracteres que resultaron variables, como el tamao floral y la cantidad de estomas del nectario, podran afectar la polinizacin y/o la produccin de semillas.
23225125|Based on the caryotype and colour of dry scales in dormant bulbs, Nothoscordum serenense is transferred to Zoellnerallium. Furthermore, the validity of the genus Zoellnerallium is justified on chromosome and morphological grounds. Se propone subordinar Nothoscordum serenense, al gnero Zoellnerallium, basado en observaciones cariolgicas y en la coloracin de los catafilos secos de los bulbos en latencia. Adems, se presenta una justificacin del gnero Zoellnerallium basada en evidencias cromosmicas y morfolgicas.
23222569|This is the first paper of a chemotaxonomic serial studies of the subtribe Phaseolinae in Argentina, wich comprises the generic complex Phaseolus-Vigna-Macroptilium. Chromatographic patterns of 8 species of the genus Macroptilium were determined. Cluster analysis and ordination by principal coordinates analysis were applied to 36 chemical characters ("spots") leading to two distinct groups. These results corroborate the previous taxonomic treatment for this genus based on morphological and palynological studies. Chemical evidence seems to support the sections Macroptilium and Microcochle proposed by Lackey according to Piper, as well as the natural grouping of the species in each of these taxa.
23223887|Synflorescence typology of Neotropical genus Axonopus P. Beauv. was studied using the methodology and the terminology of Troll's school. Fifty two species of ca. 75 species of Axonopus were analized. In all taxa the synflorescence is polytelic and truncate. According to this study, the plesiomorphic flowering unit is found in the series Barbigeri G. A. Black. The synflorescence could be derived from an ancestral form by the following evolutionary steps: 1.- truncation of the main axis; 2.complete homogenization; 3.- reduction of the short paracladia; 4.- decrease of the number of long paracladia; 5.- truncation of the long paracladia. Morphological relationships are discussed and some probable evolutionary trends are outlined. Se estudi la tipologa de la sinflorescencia del gnero neotropical Axonopus P. Beauv. utilizando la metodologa y terminologa de la escuela de Troll. Se analizaron representantes de 52 de las ca. 75 especies del gnero. En todas las especies la sinflorescencia es politlica y truncada. De acuerdo con este estudio, la unidad de floracin plesiomrfica se encuentra en la serie Barbigeri G. A. Black. La sinflorescencia de Axonopus pudo derivarse de una forma ancestral a travs de los siguientes pasos: 1.- truncamiento del eje principal; 2.- homogeneizacin completa; 3.- reduccin de los paracladios cortos; 4.- disminucin del nmero de paracladios largos y 5.- truncamiento de los paracladios largos. Se discuten las relaciones morfolgicas y se comentan algunas posibles tendencias evolutivas.
23227934|Eighty-eight taxa of fresh-water Cyanophyta belonging to the orders Chroococcales, Oscillatoriales, Nostocales and Stigonematales were identified. Eleven species and one taxonomic form are recorded, described and illustrated for the first time for Argentina: Aphanothece smithii, Gloeothece palea, Hydrocoleum muscicola, Tolypothrix fragilis, Tolypothrix papyracea, Scytonema fritschii, Dichothrix baueriana, Stigonema flexuosum, Fischerella muscicola, Hapalosiphon delicatulus, Hapalosiphon luteolus and Anabaena variabilis f. tenuis. Forty-eight other taxa are new records for the Nahuel Huapi National Park. Observations about habitat (planktonic, metaphytic, epiphytic, lithophytic and limiphilous), ecological characteristics and geographical distribution are included. Se identificaron 88 taxones de Cyanophyta continentales pertenecientes a los rdenes Chroococcales, Oscillatoriales, Nostocales y Stigonematales. Se describen e ilustran las citas nuevas para nuestro pas: Aphanothece smithii, Gloeothece palea, Hydrocoleum muscicola, Tolypothrix fragilis, Tolypothrix papyracea, Scytonema fritschii, Dichothrix baueriana, Stigonema flexuosum, Fischerella muscicola, Hapalosiphon delicatulus, Hapalosiphon luteolus y Anabaena variabilis f. tenuis. Otras 48 especies se registran por primera vez para el Parque Nacional Nahuel Huapi. Con respecto al hbitat, se sealan las especies planctnicas, metafiticas, epfitas, epiltcas y limcolas, y se incluyen caractersticas ecolgicas y la distribucin geogrfica.
23223262|The genus Marattia Sw., belonging to the primitive fern family Marattiaceae, was found for the first time in Argentina, in the northeastern part of the Province of Misiones. The specimen, and similar collections from adjacent states in Brazil, were identified as Marattia laevis Sm. However, these specimens exhibit some morphological differences, especially in the synangia, from collections of this species elsewhere in tropical America.
23215620|Chondrilla L. (Compositae, Lactuceae) is first mentioned for Argentina. The finding of Ch. juncea L. ("skeleton weed") in the province of Buenos Aires is reported.
23210031|This work includes a revision of Cyttaria and Cyttariella species of Argentina. The existence of five species of Cyttaria is determined: C. Darwini, C. Harioti, C. Espinosae, C. Hookeri and C. intermedia, and two species of Cyttariella: C. deformans and C. Skottsbergii. C. Espinosae is verified for the first time, and the existence of C. Berteroi is discarded. Of C. Hookeri three new forms are described: C. Hookeri f. typica, C. Hookeri f. moroidea and C. Hookeri f. candida, which live, respectively, on Nothofagus antarctica, N. Dombeyi and N. betuloides. The form cited in the last term has similarity to C. intermedia. A description of all the species and their geographical distribution and pathological manifestations on the parasited hosts, is given.
23225168|Schizachyrium scabriflorum is described and illustrated, and its differences with S. sanguineum are indicated. Schizachyrium scabriflorum es descripta e ilustrada y se indican las diferencias con S. sanguineum.
23222989|The detailed study of the nomenclature types and of abundant collections has revealed that N. linariaefolia R. Graham and N. pulchella Miers have been misunderstood until now. Twenty five names ( 12 at specific level and 13 at varietal level), which we assign to these species, have been considered valid until now. Four varieties can be distinguished in the first species (var. linariaefolia, var. glabriuscula, var. pampeana, and var. pinifolioides) and three in the second one (var. pulchella, var. longistyla, and var. macrocalyx). Their numerous synonyms are critically evaluated, together with an appreciation of their distribution; the article ends with a key to recognize both species and their varieties.
23213275|Contribution to the knowledge of the neotropical "Salviniaceae". IV. Morphoanatomic data on Salvinia rotundifolia Willdenow and S. herzogii de la Sota. In the present paper, the fourth of the series which started with a study of the sporophyte of Salvinia oblongifolia, the author reports some data on the following aspects of S. rotundifolia: anatomy of the rhizome and submerged organ. Comparative data on its related species, S. herzogii, are given.
23215058|In this paper the authors treat two vicarious species of Leguminosae and conclude : 1) that Hosackia Dougl. ex Benth. is correctly merged into Lotus L. as a section, according to Ottley, Callen and others; 2) that Lotus subpinnatus Lag., from Chile, and L. wrangelianus Fisch. et Mey. from California, are independent species, whose differences and synonyms are given; 3) The pollen grains of both were studied and found to be very similar; both are tetra-colparate, in marked contrast with other Lotusspecies and Papilionoideae in general, which have tri-colporate pollen grains.
23225164|A new species, Vernonia lanifera, from northeastern Argentina and southern Brazil is described and illustrated. It is a xilopodiferous plant found growing in high stony ground. The leaves show a thick woolly layer on the lower surface; young stems and involucral bracts are also lanate. It resembles V. rubricaulis which is characterized by sericeous indument with short, shining, pressed hairs, numerous lateral thick roots, and grows on low and humid lands. Una nueva especie, Vernonia lanifera, del Nordeste de Argentina y Sur de Brasil es descripta e ilustrada. Es una planta xilopodfera que vive en campos altos, pedregosos. Las hojas poseen una gruesa capa lanosa en el envs, los tallos jvenes y los filarios son tambin lanosos. Se asemeja a V. rubricaulis, la cual se diferencia por el indumento serceo, o sea con pelos cortos, brillantes, acroscpicos, por tener numerosas races laterales engrosadas y por crecer en lugares bajos y hmedos.
23223188|The anatomy of the nomophylls of Mulinum microphyllum (Cav.) Pers., M. hallei Skottsb., M. valentinii Speg., M. echinus D. C. and M. leptacanthum Philippi has been studied. The five species share the following anatomical characters: amphistomatic leaves, one-layered epidermis, hypodermis, homogeneous mesophyll composed of palisade parenchyma, segments of the blade with sclerenchymatous strands in the central vein, vascular bundles accompanied by secretory canals, abaxial collenchyma strands under the main secretory canals, epidermis and mesophyll rich in crystals of calcium oxalate. M. microphyllum and M. hallei differ from the other species by the following features: stomata frequently anisocytic, abaxial hypodermis, a midvein with a sheath interrupted by a sclerenchyma strand wich extends up to the adaxial epidermis. These two species show distinctive epidermal characteristics: papillae and other trichomes are only present in M. microphyllum. The other three species exhibit prevalence of anomocytic stomata, adaxial and abaxial hypodermis, midveins with a distinct sheath and a sclerenchyma strand within the sheath limit. M. echinus and M. valentinii have peristomatal rims, very compact mesophyll, few chloroplasts in hypodermal cells. However, both species differ from one another in epidermal features: papillae are only present in M. echinus; M. valentinii has adaxial epidermal outer cell walls thicker than the abaxial ones. On the other hand, in M. leptacanthum hypodermal cells are full of chloroplasts and epidermis without peristomatal rims. The following xeromorphic characteristics have been detected in the five studied species: thick outer and inner periclinal walls of the epidermal cells, distinct outer stomatal rims, compact mesophyll with high developed palisade chlorenchyma, veins with sclerenchymatic supports. A dichotomic key based on foliar anatomy, to distinguish the studied species, is provided.
23213892|Seven species of Cyttaria are treated here, parasiting Nothofagus sps. in southern South America along the Andes, from 30 S. L. to 56 S. L. A short account on method of study is given and an annotated terminology. Two keys are presented: one for determining species  in situ , attending mainly to their hosts, phenological data and macroscopical features, and another one according to characteristics of mature and spermogonial stromata. The species are described attending to their external and microscopical features, and the development of stromata is described in six species. Phenological data and geographical distribution for each species is given, the last one based only on revised material. The author emphasizes microscopical characters of the stromata and finds inoperculate asci with an amyloid cylinder (or ring) and apical paraphyses in the species studied. Based on these peculiar features she recommends the inclusion of the Cyttareaceae in the Order Cyttariales belonging to the Discomycetes, which is somewhat intermediate between Helotiales and Sphaeriales. A new species is described: Cyttaria exigua on Nothofagus dombeyi.
23223878|The presence of Cunila angustifolia for NE Argentina (Misiones province) is confirmed. The species has been previously cited for the argentinian flora and documented with an unique material from a region in litigation, actually Brazil territory. Iconography and morphological information is provided. Se confirma y se documenta la presencia en el NE de Argentina (Provincia de Misiones) de Cunila angustifolia. La especie haba sido citada sobre la base de un nico ejemplar procedente de un rea geogrfica en litigio que actualmente pertenece a territorio de Brasil. Se aportan datos morfolgicos e iconografa.
23213894|Las plantas en cojn constituyen una nota caracterstica de las regiones montaosas y ridas del mundo, correspondiendo el mayor nmero de las mismas a Amrica del Sur. Lithodraba mendocinensis (Hauman) Boelcke, es una Crucfera andina en cojn de las provincias de Mendoza y Neuqun, donde crece entre los 1800 y 3800 m.s.m. El presente trabajo se refiere a la morfologa y anatoma de esta especie, estudiadas en los distintos estados de desarrollo de la planta. La raz principal es larga y ramificada. El cojn posee adems numerosas races adventicias en las ramificaciones del tallo. La estructura anatmica de la raz primaria es diarca. El tallo presenta ramificaciones simpodiales. La estructura anatmica del tallo se caracteriza por la ausencia de los radios parenquimticos. La hoja es ssil, pequea y rgida; presenta en ambas epidermis los estomas algo hundidos, de tipo anisoctico. La estructura del mesfilo vara a lo largo de la hoja. Las nervaduras, forman una red poco densa y se hallan acompaadas por abundante esclernquima. Las inflorescencias son terminales y constan de 5-7 flores sobre un eje acortado. Cada flor posee cuatro ciclos de piezas florales y un cojn nectarfero situado entre el perianto y el androceo. La semilla es pequea, ovoide con el pericarpio formado por varias capas de clulas. La germinacin es rpida y en la plntula se destaca el rpido desarrollo de la raz en comparacin con la parte epgea. El resultado del presente trabajo es el conocimiento detallado de la estructura morfolgica y anatmica de una planta en cojn que puede servir de ayuda y punto de partida para estudios ulteriores en plantas semejantes. This study refers to morphology and anatomy of an andean Cruciferae, Lithodraba mendocinensis (Hauman) Boelcke, which is a cushin plant growing between 1800 and 3800 m over the see level in the provinces of Mendoza and Neuqun, Argentina. This plant has a long and profusely branched principal root and numerous adventitius roots on the short ramifications of the stem; the anatomical structure of the root is diarc. The stem ramification is simpodial and short, forming a dense flat cushion anatomycaly the stem presents the radial lagoon, few vessels and totat absence of the parenchymatous secondary rays. The sessile, rigid and small leaves present stomata on both epidermis and the mesophyll structure varies along the organ; the vascular bundles are surrounded by abundant mechanical tissue. The seed is small with a pericarp formed by several layers of cells. The seedling presents a great development of the root in comparison with its epigeus part. The knowledge of morphological and anatomical structure of a cushion plant is usefull as a base for further studies of similar plants.
23223227|A comparative study between Boerhavia cordobensis Kuntze and North American specimens of Boerhavia pterocarpa S. Watson allowed to recognize two different taxa: Boerhavia cordobensis, which lives in Central-western Argentina and has been introduced in South Africa, and Boerhavia pterocarpa, confined to the state of Arizona (U. S. A.); thus, the latter is excluded from the Argentinian flora. A key and illustrations are given to differenciate both entities.
23228001|During the preparation of the Catalogue of the Vascular Plants from the Southern Cone, currently in progress at the Instituto de Botnica Darwinion, several taxonomical and nomenclatural novelties were recorded, which are here presented by the researchers who are collaborating with the catalogue. Durante la preparacin del Catlogo de Plantas Vasculares del Cono Sur, actualmente en ejecucin en el Instituto de Botnica Darwinion, se han registrado diversas novedades taxonmicas y nomenclaturales que se dan a conocer aqu por los investigadores que colaboran con el catlogo.
23223007|The study of pollen grains of Saxegothaea conspicua Lindl. by phase constrast and scanning electron microscopy allowed to observe characteristics not previously pointed out by other authors. Basically the pollen of Saxegothaea conspicua is subisopolar, subspheroidal, 3-4-analept with a relictual trilete mark. The taxonomic position of Saxegothaea is briefly discussed exposing the ideas of different authors, pointing out also the rather isolated position of the genus within the Podocarpaceae. It is concluded that more comparative studies are required, using new techniques that would help defining with more exact data the position of the genus within the conifers.
23222538|The Argentine species of Inga (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae). Burkart (1952) cited six species of Inga Miller for Argentina: I. marginata Willd., I. virescens Benth., I. affinis D. C., I. urugensis Hook. f. et Arn., I. saltensis Burkart and doubtfully I. edulis C. Martius. As consequence of the present study, I. saltensis is transferred from the Sect. Pseudinga to the Sect. Inga (=Euinga Benth.) because of its mature legume. The presence of I. edulis var. parviflora is confirmed, not I. edulis var. edulis. Descriptions, illustrations, observations, keys to the species and maps of geographical distribution are given.
23218084|The structure of the vessel-parenchyma pit membranes from secondary xylem of Persea americana var. drymifolia (Cham. et Schlecht) Blake, has been studied with SEM. The presence of numerous cellulosic and non lignified excrescences has been observed on the pit membrane of the parenchyma cell side.
23230234|A new species of Mecardonia from northeastern Argentina, in Corrientes province is described and illustrated. The affinities with its closest morphological relative, M. procumbens, are discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Mecardonia hallada en el NE argentino, en la provincia de Corrientes. Se discuten sus afinidades con M. procumbens, su especie ms prxima.
23223850|The genus Diodia s. str. is defined and differentiated from its related genera Borreria G. Mey., Galianthe Griseb. and Spermacoce L. As a result of this study, only 5 American species belong to Diodia: D. virginiana L. (type species of the genus), D. kuntzei K. Schum., D. macrophylla K. Schum., D. saponariifolia (Cham. & Schltdl.) K. Schum. and D. simplex Sw.; all of them are described and illustrated. The remaining species referred to Diodia have been combined into Galianthe Griseb. subg. Ebelia (Rchb.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo or Borreria G. Mey. subg. Dasycephala (DC.) Bacigalupo & E. L. Cabral. D. teres Walt. and its relatives are excluded from Diodia s. str., but their position is still under study. Se define el gnero Diodia L. y se lo diferencia de los gneros afines Borreria G. Mey., Galianthe Griseb., y Spermacoce L. Como resultado del estudio se reconocen como pertenecientes a este gnero slo cinco especies americanas: D. virginiana L. (especie tipo del gnero), D. kuntzei K. Schum., D. macrophylla K. Schum., D. saponariifolia (Cham. et Schltdl.) K Schum. y D. simplex Sw., las cuales son descriptas e ilustradas. De las restantes especies registradas en Diodia algunas han sido incluidas en Galianthe Griseb. subg. Ebelia (Rchb.) E. L. Cabral & Bacigalupo y otras en Borreria G. Mey. subg. Dasycephala (DC.) Bacigalupo & E. L. Cabral. Resta otro grupo de especies registradas en Diodia, que incluye Diodia teres Walt. y especies afines, que queda excluido de Diodia y se encuentra actualmente en estudio.
23222529|Chromosome studies in Barnadesiinae (Mutisieae, Asteraceae). I. Chuquiraga y Doniophyton. Chromosome numbers observed at mitosis and meiosis are reported for ten taxa belonging to the genera Chuquiraga and Doniophyton. Eight of them: Ch. avellanedae Lorentz (n = 27), Ch. echegarayi Hieron (2n = 54), Ch. erinacea Don ssp. hystrix (Don) Ezcurra (2n = 108), Ch. oppositifolia Don (n = 54), Ch. spinosa Lessing ssp. australis Ezcurra (2n = 54), Ch. rosulata Gaspar (n = 27), Ch. ruscifolia Don (n = 27) and D. anomalum Don (2n = 50, n = 25), were investigated cytologically for the first time. Different chromosome numbers in Ch. erinacea Don ssp. erinacea (n = 27) were found from that previously reported in the literature, suggesting the existence of cryptic species. Karyograms, total chromosome lenght (TCL) and asymmetry indexes (A and A) are described and the evolutionary relationships between both genera are discussed.
23213826|El presente trabajo consiste en el estudio sistemtico y ecolgico de la familia Ceramiaceae Reichenbach 1828 (Algae-Rhodophyta) de Puerto Deseado, provincia de Santa Cruz, Argentina, encontrndose hasta ahora representada por 7 gneros: ANTITHAMNION Ngeli, ANTITHAMNIONELLA Lyle; BALLIA Harvey; CALLITHAMNION Lyngbye; CERAMIUM Roth; DASYPTILON Feldmann; GRIFFITHSIA C. A. Agardh, los cuales comprenden 23 especies: Antithamnion simile (Hook. f. et Harv.) J. G. Agardh; Antithamnionella ternifolia (Hook. f. et Harv.) L. Lyle; Callithamnion montagnei Hook. f. et Harv.; Callithamnion gaudichaudii C. Agardh; Callithamnion polyspermum C. A. Agardh; Callithamnion flaccidum Hook. f. et Harv. var. alternifolium Hook. f. et Harv.; Ceramium involutum Ktz.; Ceramium lessonii Del. ex Ktz.; Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Agardh con sus vars. pedicellatum J. G. Agardh; proliferum C. A. Agardh; barbatum (Ktz.) J. G. Agardh y virgatum C. A. Agardh; Ceramium irregulare Ktzing; Ceramium dozei Hariot; Ceramium diaphanum (Lightf.) Roth; Ceramium diaphanum (Lightf.) Roth f. modificata Petersen; Ceramium strictum Grev. et Harv.; Ballia scoparia (Hook. f. et Harv.) Harvey; Ballia callitricha (C. A. Ag.) Montagne; Dasyptilon harveyi (Hooker) Papenfuss; Griffithsia antarctica Hook. f. et Harv. Todas las especies estudiadas son citadas por primera vez para las siguientes localidades: Santa Cruz, Puerto Deseado: Cavendish, Dos Hermanas, Sorrel, Chaffers, Punta Foca, Pennsula Foca, Isla Quiroga y dos localidades adyacentes dentro de la misma provincia: Cabo Blanco y Cabo Tres Puntas, amplindose as su rea de distribucin; dos variedades: Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. barbatum (Ktz.) J. G. Ag. y Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. pedicellatum J. G. Ag., son citadas por primera vez para la Argentina. Para cada una de las especies estudiadas se han realizado observaciones ecolgicas, determinndose por su afinidad a distintos substratos como rupcolas (sobre roca), epizoicas (sobre animales), epfitas (sobre otras algas). Se encontr que la mayora de las especies del gnero Ceramium son epfitas, lo mismo Callithamnion, Antithamnion y Antithamnionella, mientras que Griffithsia, Ballia y Dasyptilum son generalmente rupcolas. De cada especie se indica su ubicacin dentro del sistema litoral, habindose encontrado una marcada preferencia por el piso mesolitoral (horizonte medio e inferior) y el piso infralitoral (horizonte superior), as como por las piletas de marea del mesolitoral. Tambin su grado de presencia fue establecido, siendo estas algas muy abundantes durante todo el ao. La diagnosis sistemtica de cada especie va acompaada de su distribucin geogrfica para la Argentina; por observaciones sobre el hbitat y grado de abundancia; est acompaada por dibujos originales de aspectos morfolgicos externos o internos y de los rganos de reproduccin de inters para la determinacin. The present work consists of the systematic and ecological study, of the family Ceremiaceae Reichenbach 1828 (Algae-Rhodophyta) of Puerto Deseado, Santa Cruz Province, Argentina, collected in the following localities: Cavendish, Dos Hermanas, Chaffers, Punta Foca, Pennsula Foca, Sorrel, Isla Quiroga and two localities in the vecinity of Cabo Blanco and Cabo Tres Puntas. This family is represented by the 7 following genera: ANTITHAMNION Ngeli 1847, ANTITHAMNIONELLA Lyle 1922; BALLIA Harvey 1840; CALLITHAMNION Lyngbye 1819; CERAMIUM Roth 1917; DASYPTILON Feldmann 1950; GRIFFITHSIA C. A. Agardh 1817. The number of species is 23: Antithamnion simile (Hook. f. et Harv.) J. G. Agardh; Antithamnionella ternifolia (Hook. f. et Harv.) L. Lyle; Callithamnion montagne Hook. f. et Harv.; Callithamnion gaudichaudii C. Agardh; Callithamnion polyspermum C. A. Agardh; Callithamnion flaccidum Hook. f. et Harv. var. alternifolium Hook. f. et Harv.; Ceramium involutum Ktz.; Ceramium lessonii Del. ex Ktz.; Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Agardh; Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. pedicellatum J. G. Agardh; Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. proliferum C. A. Agardh; Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. barbatum (Ktz.) J. G. Agardh;Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. virgatum C. A. Agardh; Ceramium irregulare Ktzing; Ceramium dozei Hariot; Ceramium diaphanum (Lightf.) Roth; Ceramium diaphanum (Lightf.) Roth f. modificata Peterson; Ceramium strictum Grev. et Harv.; Ballia scoparia (Hook. f. et Harv.) Harvey; Ballia callitricha (C. A. Ag.) Montagne; Dasyptilon harveyi (Hooker) Papenfuss; Griffithsia antarctica Hook. f. et Harv. All these species are cited for the first time for those localities, thus enlarging their distribution area, as many of them had only been mentioned for the Tierra del Fuego or Islas Malvinas. Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. barbatum (Ktz.) J. G. Ag. and Ceramium rubrum (Huds.) C. A. Ag. var. pedicellatum J. G. Ag. are cited for the first time for Argentina. Vertical zonation within the Litoral System is indicated for each species. It shows a marked preference for the Mesolitoral floor (middle and inferior horizon), in and outside the tidepools, and the Infralitoral floor (hig horizon). Their form of life is also indicated, which is rupicolous, epizoic of epiphitic. The mayority of species of Ceramium, Callithamnium, Antithamnion and Antithamnionella have been found to be epiphitic, while Griffithsia, Ballia and Dasyptilon are rupicolous. Observations on their presence made during several years, show that these Algae are abundant throughout the year.
23223848|The genus Setaria P. Beauv. is represented in South America by 3 subgenera: Ptychophyllum (A. Braun) Hitchc., with 3 species, Setaria with 39 species and 8 varieties, and the new subgenus Cernatum Pensiero with 1 species. From this total of 43 species and 8 varieties, 20 species and 7 varieties are endemic to South America. Setaria rosengurttii Nicora var. uruguayensis Pensiero is proposed as a new variety endemic to Uruguay, while S. cordobensis R.A.W. Herrm. var. limense (Tovar) Pensiero is proposed as a new combination and status. Setaria utowanaea (Scribn. ex Millsp.) Pilg., S. grisebachii E. Fourn., and S. liebmanni E. Fourn. are cited for the first time for South America. A key to recognize all species and varieties that grow in South America is given, as well as a description of the species, synonymy, illustrations, geographical distribution and ecological observations. El gnero Setaria P. Beauv. se encuentra representado en Sudamrica por 3 subgneros: Ptychophyllum (A. Braun) Hitchc., con 3 especies, Setaria con 39 especies y 8 variedades, proponindose un nuevo subgnero, Cernatum Pensiero, con 1 especie endmica del Ecuador. Sobre este total de 43 especies y 8 variedades, 20 especies y 7 variedades son endmicas de Sudamrica. Setaria rosengurttii Nicora var. uruguayensis Pensiero es propuesta como nueva variedad endmica del Uruguay, mientras que S. cordobensis R.A.W. Herrm. var. limense (Tovar) Pensiero es propuesta como una nueva combinacin y estado. Setaria utowanaea (Scribn. ex Millsp.) Pilg., S. grisebachii E. Fourn., y S. liebmanni E. Fourn. son citadas por primera vez para Sudamrica. Se presenta una clave que permite diferenciar los subgneros, especies y variedades que el gnero posee en Sudamrica, aportndose adems descripciones, sinnimos, ilustraciones, distribucin geogrfica y observaciones ecolgicas.
23211611|Este trabajo es una revisin crtica de las especies del gnerio Nassella cuyo centro de distribucin se halla en Chile; su rea alcanza a las regiones andinas limtrofes: Argentina, Bolivia y Per, y una especie llega hasta el Ecuador. Segn este estudio, el gnero Nassella comprende las 9 especies siguientes: N. Johnstonii, N. humilis, N. pungens, N. pubiflora, N. Meyeniana, N. fuscescens, N. chilensis, N. juncea y N. exserta con la var. asperata. Los lmites genricos entre Nassella y Stipa no han podido ser establecidos claramente, pues se trata de dos gneros muy emparentados; considera como Nassella las especies de Stipinae con caas plurinodes y antecio asimtrico, comprimido lateralmente, con plea reducida, callus obtuso y arista excntrica muy caediza. Excluye las especies con antecio asimtrico y arista persistente que tienen lminas setceas y adems forman csped compacto como Stipa trichotoma y Nassella longearistata. Describe una nueva especie, N. Johnstonii, caracterizada por tener la arista pilosa en el tercio inferior, y una nueva variedad, N. exserta v. asperata, distinta de la forma tpica por los antecios papilosos-speros; transfiere a este gnero Urachne Meyeniana, estableciendo la nueva combinacin Nassella Meyeniana (Trin. et Rupr.) Parodi.
darwiniana.3.2.227|This paper confirms that the geographic range of
darwiniana.3.1.73|A taxonomical treatment of the representatives of
23230202|Fifty native and 12 naturalized species of Lepidium grow in South America, and a key to all 62 species is presented. Three new species from Argentina (L. hickenii, L. pedersenii, and L. santacruzensis) and two from Peru (L. cuzcoensis and L. werffii) are described, illustrated, and their relationships to nearest relatives are discussed. The new combination Lepidium crassius is proposed. Furthermore, 19 taxa (Coronopus didymus var. macrocarpus, C. didymus var. procumbens, L. abrotanifolium var. steinmannii, L. affine, L. argentinum, L. auriculatum, L. bonariense var. pseudovirginicum, L. calycinum var. integrifolium, L. costaricense, L. cumingianum var. orbiculatum, L. cumingianum subsp. berteroanum, L. depressum, L. myrianthum, L. neglectum, L. parodii, L. pubescens var. fallax, L. subvaginatum, L. virginicum subsp. centrali-americanum, Thlaspi campestre) are lectotypified and 17 others (Coronopus leptocarpus, C. leptocarpus var. microcarpus, L. boelckii, L. bonariense var. gayi, L. bonariense var. pseudovirginicum, L. brevicaule, L. calycinum, L. danielsii, L. demissum, L. kalenbornii, L. morrisonii, L. peruvianum, L. philippianum var. boliviense, L. raimondii, L. scabrifructum, L. spicatum var. caylx-persistente, L. subvaginatum) are reduced to synonymy. L. depressum and L. rahmeri are new records for Argentina. Cincuenta especies nativas y 12 naturalizadas de Lepidium crecen en Amrica del Sur, se presenta una clave para las 62 especies. Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Argentina (L. hickenii, L. pedersenii y L. santacruzensis) y dos para Per (L. cuzcoensis y L. werffii), y se discuten sus relaciones con sus especies ms afines. Se propone Lepidium crassius comb. nov., se designa lectotipo para 19 binomios (Coronopus didymus var. macrocarpus, C. didymus var. procumbens, L. abrotanifolium var. steinmannii, L. affine, L. argentinum, L. auriculatum, L. bonariense var. pseudovirginicum, L. calycinum var. integrifolium, L. costaricense, L. cumingianum var. orbiculatum, L. cumingianum subsp. berteroanum, L. depressum, L. myrianthum, L. neglectum, L. parodii, L. pubescens var. fallax, L. subvaginatum, L. virginicum subsp. centrali-americanum, Thlaspi campestre), y se reducen a sinnimos otros 17 nombres (Coronopus leptocarpus, C. leptocarpus var. microcarpus, L. boelckii, L. bonariense var. gayi, L. bonariense var. pseudovirginicum, L. brevicaule, L. calycinum, L. danielsii, L. demissum, L. kalenbornii, L. morrisonii, L. peruvianum, L. philippianum var. boliviense, L. raimondii, L. scabrifructum, L. spicatum var. caylx-persistente, L. subvaginatum). L. depressum y L. rahmeri son nuevos registros para la Argentina.
23211592|En este trabajo se hace el estudio de 12 especies indgenas de Leguminosas bajo el aspecto cariolgico. Las especies estudiadas estn comprendidas dentro de las tres sub-familias de Leguminosas, repartidas en 5 gneros, 3 de los cuales nuevos para la citologa. Los resultados obtenidos figuran en el siguiente cuadro.
23226720|Eugenia ramboi (Myrtaceae, Myrtae, Eugeniinae) is recorded for the first time for the argentinean flora based on specimens collected in Misiones province. A description, illustrations, a distribution map and a key to distinguish the new record from the argentinean most related species are included. Eugenia ramboi (Myrtaceae, Myrtae, Eugeniinae) es citada por primera vez para la flora argentina sobre la base de ejemplares coleccionados en la provincia de Misiones. Se presenta una descripcin, ilustraciones, un mapa de distribucin y una clave para distinguir la nueva cita de las especies argentinas ms afines.
23223207|The genus Harrisia Britton have 4 species native of Argentina; a key to distinguish them, descriptions, new synonyms and studied material are given. Cereus regelii Weing., is transfered to H. pomanensis (F.C.A. Weber ex K. Schum.) Britton & Rose subsp. regelii (Weing.) R. Kiesling, comb. et stat. nov. Neotypes of H. bonplandii, H. pomanensis subsp. pomanensis, H. martinii (Lab.) Britton & Rose and H. tortuosa (Forb.) Britton & Rose are designated.
darwiniana.3.1.89|
               
23218125|Some parasite "phycomycetes" on Fungi and Algae from Argentina. Six species of "phycomycetes", occurring as parasites fo Algae and Fungi are described: Chytridium olla on Oedogonium sp., Olpidium entophytum on Nitella sp., Olpidiopsis saprolegniae var. saprolegniae on Saprolegnia sp., Lagenisma coscinodisci on Coscinodiscus perforatus aff. var. cellulosa, Woronina glomerata on Vaucheria geminata and Myzocytium proliferum on Spirogyra lenticularis. All of them, excluding the latter are new records for Argentina, and thus widen their geographic distribution.
23212168|El autor hace la revisin del pequeo gnero de Onagrceas, Boisduvalia, basn-dose en el estudio de abundante material de herbario, que cita. Da una clave de las 10 especies que admite y describe estas plantas detalladamente mencionando la bibliografa y los sinnimos. Antes se consideraba que este gnero era norte y sudamericano y contaba 7 especies: B. densiflora, B. glabella, B. stricta y B. cleistogama en Norte Amrica y B. concinna, B. subulata y B. Tocornalii en Chile. Munz completa los conocimientos agregando dos especies norteamericanas: B. macrantha y B. pallida; comprobando que B. glabella del oeste de Norteamrica existe tambin en el sur de Argentina, siendo un notable ejemplo de especie con rea disyunta; adems agrega una especie de Tasmania, pasando Oenothera tasmanica al gnero que nos ocupa. Estas 10 especies las agrupa en 3 secciones: Euboisduvalia, nov. nom., Pachidium y Currania, nov. sect. Da claves para las variedades de algunas especies polimorfas, como B. densiflora y B. glabella. La lmina trae figuras de 9 especies.  A. B.
23230218|Menonvillea zuloagaensis from San Juan and Mostacillastrum hunzikeri from Catamarca and La Rioja are described, and their distinguishing characters from nearest relatives are given. A key to the long-petiolate, broad-leaved, Argentinean species of Menonvillea is presented. Se describen e ilustran Menonvillea zuloagaensis (San Juan) y Mostacillastrum hunzikeri (Catamarca y La Rioja), y se discuten sus caracteres distintivos respecto de las especies morfolgicamente ms prximas. Se presenta adems una clave para las especies argentinas de Mostacillastrum con pecolos largos y lminas foliares anchas.
23222993|Bonplandiana is a South American group with six species distributed from Venezuela to Per: Paspalum bonplandianum Humb. & Bonpl. ex Flgg, P. hirtum Kunth, P. pallidum Kunth, P. pilgerianum Chase, P. trianae Pilg., and P. tuberosum Mez. Morphological and anatomical characteristics of the group are defined, together with a key to identify the species, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps. Relationships of Bonplandiana with related groups of Paspalum are discussed.
41825700|The Andropogon lateralis complex is constituted by 13 taxonomic entities: seven species and six class inter-specific hybrids distributed in Central and South America. Natural hybrids within this group are quite common due to lack of inter-specific barriers. These hybrids have been collected in the last two centuries and, in most cases, have caught the attention of taxonomists, who formally described several as new taxa. Therefore, taxonomic entities based on them have been validly published. In southern South America, among the ten taxonomic entities in the A. lateralis complex, five are natural hybrids and at least three possess legitimate names (A.  coloratus, A.  lindmanii, and A.  subtilior). Based on morphometric analyses and previous studies we propose that other two natural hybrids deserve taxonomic names. These entities are Andropogon  velutinus (A. bicornis  A. glaziovii, = Andropogon sp 1 according to Zanin, 2001) and Andropogon  catarinensis (A. bicornis  A. arenarius). Taxonomic treatments of A.  velutinus and A.  catarinensis are presented. El complejo Andropogon lateralis est constituido por alrededor de 13 entidades taxonmicas: siete especies y seis hbridos inter-especficos distribuidos en Centro y Sudamrica. Los hbridos naturales en este grupo son frecuentes debido a la ausencia de barreras reproductivas entre las especies. Estos hbridos han sido recolectados en los ltimos dos siglos y, en la mayora de los casos, han llamado la atencin de los taxnomos, quienes han descrito a varias de estas combinaciones formalmente como nuevos taxones. Por lo tanto, las entidades taxonmicas basadas en combinaciones hbridas han sido vlidamente publicadas. De las diez entidades taxonmicas que integran el complejo A. lateralis en el Cono Sur de Sudamrica, cinco corresponden a hbridos naturales y tres de estos poseen nombres legtimos (A.  coloratus, A.  lindmanii y A.  subtilior). Sobre la base de anlisis morfomtricos y estudios previos, proponemos que los dos hbridos naturales restantes tambin merecen nombres taxonmicamente vlidos. Estas entidades son Andropogon  velutinus (A. bicornis  A. glaziovii, = Andropogon sp 1 de acuerdo a Zanin, 2001) y Andropogon  catarinensis (A. bicornis  A. arenarius). En este trabajo se presentan los tratamientos taxonmicos de Andropogon  velutinus y Andropogon  catarinensis.
23215551|One new species and a new variety of Deyeuxia (Gramineae) are described and illustrated. D. diemii nov. sp., from Neuqun and D. erythrostachya Desv. var. neuquenensis nov. var. from Ro Negro y Neuqun.
23230195|Hieracium x stoloniflorum, native from central Europe and northwestern Russia and reported as a putative hybrid between H. aurantiacum and H. pilosella, is first documented for the Argentinian flora. This paper describes this weed and informs about its presence in Ro Negro province. Hieracium x stoloniflorum, nativo de Europa central y noroeste de Rusia y reportado como un hbrido putativo entre H. aurantiacum y H. pilosella, se documenta por primera vez para la flora argentina. En este trabajo se describe esta maleza y se informa sobre su presencia en la provincia de Ro Negro.
23223907|This study includes an analysis of the species of Poaceae recovered in an archaeological site in the Argentine Southern Puna, province of Catamarca: Quebrada Seca 3. The investigation was carried about the use of Deyeuxia eminens J. Presl by groups of hunter-gatherers during the Archaic period ca. 10000-3000 years BP (8000-1000 years BC). The starting point for the study of the archaeobotanical record was the recording of the present flora and the ethnobotanical information obtained in the area. The comparative taxonomic and anatomic analysis of the actual and the archaeological plants allowed the identification of the latter. The results indicate the abundance of Deyeuxia eminens in the archaeobotanical record of the site. As a result, the areas from which the species comes, its probable use and a certain seasonal occupation of the site were inferred. Se realiz el estudio de las especies de la familia Poaceae recuperadas en un sitio arqueolgico de la Puna Meridional Argentina, provincia de Catamarca: Quebrada Seca 3. En este trabajo se investiga el uso de Deyeuxia eminens J. Presl por grupos cazadores-recolectores durante el perodo Arcaico ca. 10000-3000 aos AP (8000-1000 aos AC). El punto de partida para el estudio del registro arqueobotnico fue el relevamiento de la flora actual del rea de estudio y la informacin etnobotnica recogida en la misma. A partir del anlisis taxonmico y anatmico comparativo de los vegetales actuales y arqueolgicos se identificaron los ltimos. Los resultados indican la abundancia de Deyeuxia eminens en el registro arqueobotnico del sitio. Sobre esta base, se infieren las reas de procedencia, el probable uso de esta especie y cierta estacionalidad en la ocupacin del sitio.
23226709|The micromorphological features of the lemma were investigated in Trisetum and related genera in Pooideae (Poaceae) using scanning electron microscopy to evaluate the circumscription of the genus Trisetum and its systematic relationships. Seventy six species were studied including 32 species of Trisetum and selected species of Amphibromus (1 sp.), Avena (2 spp.), Avenula (6 spp.), Deschampsia (6 spp.), Dielsiochloa (1 sp.), Graphephorum (2 spp.), Gymnachne (1 sp.), Helictotrichon (8 spp.), Koeleria (5 spp.), Leptophyllochloa (1 sp.), Peyritschia (4 spp.), Raimundochloa (1 sp.), Relchela (1 sp.), Rhombolytrum (1 sp.), Rostraria (1 sp.) and Sphenopholis (3 spp.). The results showed that the epidermis of the lemma varies very little within the studied genera, thus it is a good character for the generic circumscription and to study the generic relationships in Pooideae. Trisetum is characterized by rectangular long cells, silica cells usually present, stomata absent, and hooks and prickle hairs present. Differences in the presence of silica cells, prickle hairs and various other epidermal features showed that Peyritschia is distinct from Trisetum. Species of Peyritschia generally lack silica cells, macrohairs and prickle hairs. Silica cells and prickle hairs are usually present in Trisetum and some species have macrohairs covering the lemma. Species examined of Sphenopholis have epidermal cells shorter than species of Trisetum and some species of Sphenopholis have stomata in the apical portion of the lemma. The results suggest that Sphenopholis interrupta (= Trisetum interruptum) should be excluded from Trisetum and classified in the genus Sphenopholis. Deschampsia is very distinct from Trisetum in the epidermal characteristics of the lemma. Studied species of Deschampsia have very long epidermal cells, absence of silica cells, prickle hairs and hooks usually absent, and long cells with straight anticlinal walls. The genera Amphibromus, Avena, Avenula, Helictotrichon, Gymnachne, Rhombolytrum, Dielsiochloa, Leptophyllochloa, and Raimundochloa showed various combinations of micromorphological features supporting their generic distinction among them and from Trisetum. On the other hand, Graphephorum, Rostraria and Koeleria are very similar to Trisetum in the epidermal characters of the lemma. Las caractersticas micromorfolgicas de la lemma de Trisetum y gneros relacionados de Pooideae (Poaceae) fueron investigadas utilizando microscopia electrnica de barrido, con el objeto de evaluar la circunscripcin del gnero Trisetum y sus relaciones sistemticas. Se estudiaron 76 especies, incluyendo 32 especies de Trisetum y especies seleccionadas de Amphibromus (1 sp.), Avena (2 spp.), Avenula (6 spp.), Deschampsia (6 spp.), Dielsiochloa (1 sp.), Graphephorum (2 spp.), Gymnachne (1 sp.), Helictotrichon (8 spp.), Koeleria (5 spp.), Leptophyllochloa (1 sp.), Peyritschia (4 spp.), Raimundochloa (1 sp.), Relchela (1 sp.), Rhombolytrum (1 sp.), Rostraria (1 sp.) y Sphenopholis (3 spp.). Los resultados muestran que la epidermis de la lemma vara muy poco en las especies de cada gnero pero es diferente en los distintos gneros estudiados y, por tanto, es un buen carcter para estudiar la circunscripcin de los gneros as como las relaciones sistemticas en Pooideae. Trisetum se caracteriza por poseer clulas largas rectangulares, clulas silceas usualmente presentes, estomas ausentes y ganchos y aguijones presentes. Diferencias en la presencia de clulas silceas, aguijones y varias otras caractersticas demuestran que Peyritschia es distinto de Trisetum. Las especies de Peyritschia generalmente carecen de clulas silceas, macropelos y aguijones. Clulas silceas y aguijones estn usualmente presentes en Trisetum y algunas especies poseen macropelos que cubren la lemma. Las especies examinadas de Sphenopholis tienen clulas epidrmicas ms cortas que las especies de Trisetum y algunas especies de Sphenopholis tienen estomas en la porcin apical de la lemma. Los resultados sugieren que Sphenopholis interrupta (=Trisetum interruptum) debe ser excluido de Trisetum y clasificado en el gnero Sphenopholis. Deschampsia es muy diferente de Trisetum en cuanto a las caractersticas epidrmicas de la lemma. Las especies estudiadas de Deschampsia tienen clulas epidrmicas muy largas, ausencia de clulas silceas y usualmente carecen de aguijones y ganchos y poseen clulas largas con paredes anticlinales rectas. Los gneros Amphibromus, Avena, Avenula, Helictotrichon, Gymnachne, Rhombolytrum, Dielsiochloa, Leptophyllochloa y Raimundochloa muestras diversas combinaciones de caractersticas micromorfolgicas que avalan su delimitacin recproca y de Trisetum. Por otra parte, Graphephorum, Rostraria y Koeleria son muy similares a Trisetum en las caractersticas epidrmicas de la lemma.
23228255|A new record for the Argentinean flora, Cyclolobium brasiliense, is described and illustrated. It was collected in Andresito, in an island of the Iguaz river, Departamento General Belgrano, in the North of the Misiones Province. Comments on the systematic position of the species and related genera are given. Se describe e ilustra Cyclolobium brasiliense, un nuevo gnero para la flora argentina, coleccionado en Andresito en una isla del ro Iguaz, Departamento General Belgrano, en el norte de la provincia de Misiones. Se realizan comentarios sobre la posicin sistemtica de esta especies y gneros afines.
23228355|The traditional botanical knowledge (TBK) is defined as a cumulative "corpus" of knowledge, practices and beliefs about the relationships between the human beings and the vegetal components of their environments. This "corpus" of knowledge is modified by selection processes and is transmitted culturally from generation to generation. In this approach it is demonstrated that the temporary variable occupies an outstanding roll in the conformation of the TBK. Nevertheless, considering it as the knowledge shared by a specific human group about local vegetables, it is clear that the knowledge involved in the process of choice, obtaining, processing and consumption, as well as in the local administration, of plant resources, also can be generated by and residing in communities that lack of historical and cultural continuity. From the analysis of two cases (the horticulture in the Puna of Jujuy, NW of Argentina, and suburban areas in Buenos Aires province) where the temporary depth from the experience is different, TBK can be consider a synthesis of wisdom, that is generated so much from the knowledge generated locally by practice and experimentation, as well as by incorporation of information of other sources, including the scientific knowledge. Finally, we extend this analysis to the interpretation of local practices of plant manipulation in archaeology, which reflects CBT in the past. El conocimiento botnico tradicional (CBT) es definido como un cuerpo acumulativo de conocimientos, prcticas y creencias acerca de las relaciones entre los seres humanos y los componentes vegetales de su entorno. Este cuerpo de conocimientos se modifica a partir de procesos de seleccin y es transmitido culturalmente de generacin en generacin. En esta clase de abordaje queda evidenciado que la variable temporal ocupa un rol destacado en la conformacin del CBT. Sin embargo, considerndolo como el saber compartido por un grupo humano especfico acerca de los vegetales locales, se reconoce que ese conocimiento, empleado durante el proceso de eleccin, obtencin, procesamiento y consumo, as como en la administracin local de los recursos, puede ser tambin engendrado por y residir en comunidades que carecen de continuidad histrica y cultural. A partir del anlisis de dos casos (la horticultura en la puna jujefia y en reas suburbanas bonaerenses) donde difiere la profundidad temporal de la experiencia, se concluye que el CBT puede considerarse una sntesis de saberes, que se genera tanto a partir del conocimiento engendrado localmente por prctica y experimentacin, as como por incorporacin de informacin de otras fuentes, incluyendo el conocimiento cientfico. Finalmente se proyecta este anlisis a la identificacin arqueolgica de prcticas locales de manejo de poblaciones vegetales, reflejo del CBT en el pasado.
23216521|This work deals with the inflorescences of the argentine species of Sisyrinchium. All of them are complicated tirsoid inflorescences formed by monopodic and simpodic axes. Each axis of monopodic growth, including the principal one is terminated by a flower preceded by two bracts. The apical bract is always fertile, a lateral axis of simpodial growth which constitutes an helicoidal monocasium is developed in its axil. On the contrary the basal bract is always sterile. According to the different development and complexity of these components, differents types of inflorescence have been established provisionally. These types have been individually analized, the modifications found in the studied material were considered in each case. The possible relationships and derivations between them are also discussed here.
23222519|Karyological studies in South American grasses. Chromosome numbers are reported for 82 accessions of grasses representing 11 genera and 41 specific or underspecific taxa. The accessions belong to the warm-season forage grass germplasm collections of EMBRAPA/CENARGEN (Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria / Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Recursos Genticos e Biotecnologa) at Brasilia, Brazil, and IBONE (Instituto de Botnica del Nordeste) at Corrientes, Argentina. The results contribute to the general evaluation of native forage grasses, specially of the genus Paspalum, collected through Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.
23215673|A synopsis of the fern-flora of Northwestern Argentina, II. In the second part of this synopsis, the author studies the following families of ferns which are represented in the northwestern area of the country: Vittariaceae (Polytaenium, 1 species), Polypodiaceae (Campyloneurum, 4 species; Microgramma, 1 species; Phlebodium, 1 species; Pessopteris, 1 species; Polypodium, 10 species), Grammitidaceae (Ctenopteris, 1 species), Davalliaceae (Nephrolepis, 1 species), Aspleniaceae (Asplenium, 17 species), Athyriaceae (Athyrium, 3 species; Cystopteris, 1 species; Diplazium, 1 species; Woodsia, 1 species), Thelypteridaceae (Thelypteris, 19 species), Aspidiaceae (Ctenitis, 4 species; Dryopteris, 2 species; Polystichum, 2 species; Tectaria, 1 species), Lomariopsidaceae (Bolbitis, 1 species; Elaphoglossum, 6 species), and Blechnaceae (Blechnum, 9 species). The following new taxa are described and illustrated: Asplenium lilloanum, Thelypteris catamarcensis, T. jujuyensis, T. nubicola, Elaphoglossum yungense and Blechnum rosenstockii. The presence of a new interspecific hybrid is also reported: Blechnum australe L. subsp. auriculatum (Cav.) de la Sota  Blechnum occidentale L. Under each taxon, synonymy, affinities, critical data, geographic distribution and studied specimens, are given.
23230183|This paper proposes the observation of anatomical features associated with water deficiency in wood as paleoenvironmental indicator. The analysis was applied to charcoal recovered in late archaeological contexts of Aguada in Ambato Valley, Catamarca (Argentina). Based on the correlation between the anatomical structure of wood and the habitat, the observations were done on present-day and archaeological samples of Geoffroea decorticans. Results show arid conditions in the study area at the end of the first millennium. El presente trabajo propone la observacin de rasgos anatmicos ligados a deficiencia hdrica en leosas como indicador paleoambiental. El anlisis fue aplicado a carbn vegetal arqueolgico recuperado en contextos finales de la ocupacin Aguada del Valle de Ambato, Catamarca (Argentina). Sobre la base de la correlacin entre la estructura anatmica de la madera y el tipo de hbitat, se realizaron observaciones en muestras actuales y arqueolgicas de Geoffroea decorticans. Los resultados indican que condiciones ms secas que las actuales debieron operar en el rea de estudio a fines del Primer milenio de la era.
23224218|Three new records for Argentina of saprotrophic Chytridiomycota found in polluted environments of Ensenada: Blastocladia incrassata, B. sparrowii and B. tenuis (Blastocladiales, Chytridiomycetes) are described. Tres Chytridiomycota saprtrofos: Blastocladia incrassata, B. sparrowii y B. tenuis (Blastocladiales, Chytridiomycetes) encontrados en ambientes contaminados del partido de Ensenada, Buenos Aires, son citados y descriptos por primera vez para la Argentina.
23230203|During the revision of the Stipeae (Poaceae) for the Argentinean flora and in accordance to the latest phylogenetic studies in the tribe, it became necessary to transfer some recently described taxa from the genus Stipa to Nassella, Jarava or Pappostipa. As a result, 12 new combinations are here proposed: Jarava ichu var. pungens, Nassella brachyglumis, N. macrotricha, Pappostipa arenicola, P. choconensis, P. colloncurensis, P. frigida var. longifolia, P. jucunda, P. kieslingii, P. mapuche, P. marqueziana and P. zulmae. A key to identify the genera of Stipeae in Argentina is also included. Durante la revisin de los gneros de Stipeae (Poaceae) para la flora argentina y de acuerdo a los ltimos estudios filogenticos en la tribu. se confirm la necesidad de transferir algunos taxones recientemente descriptos de Stipa a Nassella, Jarava o Pappostipa. En este trabajo se presentan 12 nuevas combinaciones: Jarava ichu var. pungens, Nassella brachyglumis, N. macrotricha, Pappostipa arenicola, P. choconensis, P. colloncurensis, P. frigida var. longifolia, P. jucunda, P. kieslingii, P. mapuche, P. marqueziana y P. zulmae. Se incluye tambin una clave para identificar los gneros de Stipeae en la Argentina.
23216459|Loasa bergii Hieron. and L. argentina are studied. L. argentina Urb. et Gilg which was considered by Sleumer (1955) as a synonym of L. bergii Hieron. is rehabilitated. The differences between both species are on the morphology of the floral scales. The species are described and a key for their identification and illustrations of the scales are also included.
23227136|Cyrtopodium kleinii and C. brandonianum subsp. lageanum (Cyrtopodiinae, Cymbidieae, Orchidaceae) from southern Brazil are described and illustrated. Cyrtopodium kleinii is similar to a group of terrestrial species characterized by their small pseudobulbs, buried underground, and small flowers, but it can be distinguished by the color of its flowers, lip lateral lobes slightly or not falcate and subequal in length and width, lip midlobe base with little or no constriction, and geographical distribution. Cyrtopodium brandonianum subsp. lageanum is similar in general flower color to typical C. brandonianum, but it can be distinguished by its earlier flowering, leaves poorly developed at anthesis and different shape and colour of the lip. Both taxa are rare and only known from southern Brazil. Se describen e ilustran Cyrtopodium klenii y C. brandoniamum subsp. lageanum (Orchidaceae, Cymbidieae, Cyrtopodiinae) de la regin sur de Brasil. C klenii se asemeja a un grupo de especies caracterizado por los pseudobulbos pequeos, enterrados en el suelo, y por las flores pequeas; pero se distingue por el color de las flores, los lbulos laterales del labelo poco o nada falcados, aproximadamente tan largos como anchos, por el lbulo mediano del labelo con base poco o nada constricta y por la distribucin geogrfica. C. brandoniamum subsp. lageanum es similar a la variedad tipo en cuanto al patrn general de coloracin, pero se distingue por florecer ms tempranamente, por las hojas poco desarrolladas en la antesis, y por la forma y coloracin del labelo. Ambos son taxones poco frecuentes, slo conocidos para el sur de Brasil.
23215063|Two new species of Cynodon (Gramineae) are described and illustrated : C. nitidus Caro et Snchez (from the North of Chile) and C. aristulatus Caro et Snchez (from tropical and subtropical America); two other species of Cynodon are reinstated and illustrated : C. erectus J. S. Presl (from Peru) and C. pascuus Nees (from tropical and subtropical America). All of these species had been considered C. dactylon (L.) Persoon. The evidence for these changes is taken from external morphology and foliar anatomy.
23211734|Esta comunicacin describe las dos comunidades ms importantes del Valle de Santa Mara: el Bosque de Algarrobo (Asociacin de Prosopis alba, P. nigra y Acacia visco) y la Estepa de Jarilla (Asociacin de Larrea cuneifolia, Bulnesia Schickendantzii y Plectrocarpa Rougesii). Se atribuye especial importancia a los puntos siguientes: a) La estratificacin de las races en cada comunidad, vinculada a las exigencias ecolgicas de cada capa. b) Existen grandes diferencias entre los sistemas subterrneos de los arbustos de la Estepa de Jarilla: Zuccagnia punctata y Larrea divaricata que vegetan en las mrgenes de los ros temporarios. c) Los cambios climticos y la actividad humana han favorecido el ulterior desarrollo de la Estepa de Jarilla que actualmente ocupa zonas antes dominadas por el Bosque de Algarrobo. d) El hombre ha cambiado la estructura de los Bosques de Algarrobo, hacindose difcil interpretar las causas de la ausencia de Acacia visco en los Bosques del fondo del valle. This paper describes the two most important communities of the Santa Maria Valley: the Algarrobo Forest (Association of Prosopis alba, P. nigra and Acacia visco) and the Jarilla Steppe (Association of Larrea cuneifolia, Bulnesia Schickendantzii and Plectrocarpa Rougesii). Special importance is assigned to the following facts: a) The subterranean root-layer in each community, related to the ecological demands of each layer. b) There are wide differences between the underground system of shrubs in the Jarilla Steppe, and the Zuccagnia punctata and Larrea divaricata which thrive on the banks of the temporary rivers. c) Both climatic changes and human activites have aided the later development of the Jarilla Steppe which nowadays covers zones that had been formerly dominated by the Algarrobo Forest. d) Man has changed the structure of the Algarrobo Forest making it very difficult to determine the causes of the absency of the Acacia visco in the depth of the valley. Die vorliegende Mitteilung beschreibt die beiden wichtigsten Pflanzengesellschaften des Santa Mara-Tales: den Algarrobo-Wald (Vergesell-schaftung von Prosopis alba, Prosopis nigra und Acacia visco) und die Jarilla-Steppe (Vergesellschaftung von Larrea cuneifolia, Bulnesia Schicken-dantzii und Plectrocarpa Rougesii). Den nachfolgenden Umstnden wird eine besondere Wichtigkeit beigemessen: a) Die Wurzel-Stratifikation jeder einzelnen Pflanzengesellschaft, bedingt durch die kologischen Anforderungen jeder Schicht. b) Es bestehen grosse Unterschiede zwischen den Wurzelsystemen der Bsche der Jarilla-Steppe und denen der Zuccagnia punctata und Larrea divaricata welch letztere Bsche an den Uferrndern der Regenflsse wachsen. c) Wechsel im Klima und menschliche Bettigung haben die Bildung der Jarilla-Steppe begnstigt und diese beherrscht jetzt Gebiete, die vorher von Algarrobo-Wldern bestanden waren. d) Menschliches Einwirken hat die Struktur des Algarrobo-Waldes gendert, wobei es schwierig ist, das Fehlen von Acacia visco in den Wldern des Talbodens zu erklren.
23212955|En esta nota crtica hemos estudiado las especies de Paspalum de alto porte, inflorescencia piramidal multiracimosa, antecio estramneo, comn en los sitios hmedos, baados y savanas de la Amrica del Sur. Para la mayor facilidad de estudios hemos reunido estas especies en un grupo denominado Quadrifaria, en virtud de la prioridad de P. quadrifarium Lam. sobre sus afines. Hemos estudiado las siguientes especies: Paspalum intermedium Munro, P. quadrifarium Lam., P. brunneum Mez, P. exaltatum Presl, P. haumanii Parodi, P. durifolium Mez, P. millegrana Schrad., P. densum Poir., P. coryphaeum Trin. y P. arundinellum Mez. Las seis primeras especies citadas son comunes a Ro Grande del Sur y pases vecinos. P. millegrana Schrad. y P. densum Poir. son especies de clima subtropical, tropical y ecuatorial, comunes en las mrgenes de los ros, baados y savanas de extensas regiones de la Amrica del Sur; P. coryphaeum Trin. fue considerada por A. Chase, en un grupo separado (Coryphaea), por tratarse de una planta con hbito prostrado; por nuestra parte, preferimos incluirlo en el grupo Quadrifaria, por considerarlo afn a las dems especies estudiadas por nosotros. P. arundinellum Mez es una especie poco comn, se encuentra en las savanas y baados del Chaco. En el estudio de estas especies no hemos encontrado mayores dificultades para su interpretacin y caracterizacin, por tratarse de especies bien estudiadas por varios especialistas y por disponer de excelente material bsico (tipos, clastotipos, locotipos, etc.), puesto a nuestra disposicin en el Herb. L. R. Parodi. Para P. haumanii Parodi hemos estudiado las tres variedades descriptas por el autor, para la Amrica del Sur templada. Estas variedades son: var. genuinum, var. pilosum y var. macranthum, P. haumanii var. pilosum result ser el ms comn para Ro Grande del Sur. Hemos dispuesto de escaso material de estudio de las especies de clima subtropical y tropical, dificultando en esta forma la inclusin de mayor nmero de taxones pertenecientes al grupo Quadrifaria. Agregamos claves, descripciones, distribucin geogrfica, notas crticas, observaciones y dibujos de ejemplares y espiguillas en diversas posiciones para la mejor interpretacin de las especies estudiadas.
41825697|Sacciolepis (Poaceae, Panicoideae, Paniceae) is a pantropical genus composed by 23 species, mainly distributed in Africa, with some taxa in America, Asia and Australia. The aims of this work are to test the monophyly of Sacciolepis and to explore its infrageneric relationships. Thirty-one taxa and 80 morphological and anatomical characters, including continuous characters, were analyzed under the maximum parsimony criterion. The monophyly of Sacciolepis was corroborated and its diagnostic characters were discusssed. This paper is the first phylogenetic analysis of Sacciolepis. Sacciolepis (Poaceae, Panicoideae, Paniceae) es un gnero pantropical constituido por 23 especies, distribuidas mayormente en frica, con algunos taxones en Amrica, Asia y Australia. Los objetivos de este trabajo son poner a prueba el origen monofiltico de Sacciolepis y explorar las relaciones filogenticas intragenricas. Se analizaron 31 taxones y 80 caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos, incluyendo caracteres continuos, bajo el criterio de mxima parsimonia. Se corrobor la monofilia del gnero y se discutieron sus caracteres diagnsticos. Este trabajo es el primer anlisis filogentico de Sacciolepis.
23222558|The floral syndrome of Caesalpinia gilliesii (Wall. ex Hook.) Dietr. (Fabaceae) was studied, including pollinator behaviour, nectary structure, pollen features, nectar-chemical composition and nectar secretion physiology. Members of Caesalpinieae exhibiting other floral syndromes were studied in order to compare the results: melittophily (Caesalpinia angulata (Hook. & Arn.) Baillon, C. coluteifolia Griseb., C. exilifolia Griseb., C. paraguariensis (Parodi) Burkart, Balsamocarpon brevifolium Clos, Cercidium praecox (R. et P.) Harms, Hoffmannseggia glauca (Ort.) Eifert, Parkinsonia aculeata L., Zuccagnia punctata Cav.) and psychophily (C. pulcherrima (L.) SW.). Caesalpinia gilliesii shows floral characters which reflect its adaptation to nocturnal pollination: cream-colored petals, red stamens (apparently invisible at night), nectary development, evening anthesis, pattern of nectar secretion. Three sphingid moths species were observed to be legitimate pollinators. In C. gilliesii nectar removal affects the total sugar amount produced by each flower depending on the time of the removal: it decreases before 21:00 and it increases after that time. The studied species had "hexose rich" or "hexose dominant" nectars. Caesalpinia gilliesii and C. pulcherrima have convergent morphological floral aspects related to pterotriby. Moth and butterfly pollination are considered here to be derived from melittophily, which is the more extensively developed syndrome in the nearest relatives. Sphingophily is cited for the first time in the tribe and could be considered a manifestation of the intrageneric evolutionary radiation that probably took place after the cleavage of Gondwania and also produced psychophily, melittophily and ornithophily. More than one such radiation may have occurred independently within the Caesalpinia group.
23211698|El autor estudia las especies argentinas del gnero Melothria (Cucurbitaceae), que son en total 5, de las cuales, M. Schulziana es nueva para la ciencia, y M. Candolleana Cogn., M. fluminensis Gardn. y M. Warmingii Cogn. se citan por primera vez para la flora argentina. De cada especie se hace una extensa descripcin, se dan listas del material estudiado y se agregan dibujos analticos.
23218120|Chromosome studies on South American Angiosperms. Chromosome numbers and observations are reported on South American materials of 28 taxa belonging to different families of Angiosperms. The following entities have been examined: *Adesmia incana var. grisea (2 n = 40), *A. punctata var. hilariana (n = 10), *Agalinis communis (n = 16), *A. genistifolia (n = 16), *Calceolaria elatior (n = ca. 18). *C. lilloi (n = 16), *C. santolinoides (n = 37), *Cavendishia pubescens (n = ca. 26), *Clematis montevidensis (n = 8), *Cologania ovalifolia (n = 22), Eryngium ebracteatum (n = 8), E. elegans (n = 8), E. pandanifolium var. andanifolium (n = ca. 24), Heliotropium procumbens (n = 7), H. veronicifolium (n = 12), Hypochoeris radicata (n = 4), *Ichnanthus hirtus (n = 10), *Justicia brasiliana (n = 14), Lycium tenuispinosum var. friesii (n = 12), *Mentzelia parvifolia (n = 11), Olyra latifolia (n = 11), Senecio gillesianus (n = 20), *S. aff. pampeanus (n = 20), Solanum abutiloides (n = 12), Tibouchina lepidota (n = ca. 62), Tithonia diversifolia (n = 17), *Vassobia breviflora (n = 12), *Ximenia americana var. argentinensis (n = 13). Sixteen of these numbers are reported for the first time (preceded by an asterisk), the rest are confirmation of previous counts. The chromosome numbers for three genera are new records = Cavendishia (n = ca. 26), Agalinis (n = 16) and Vassobia (n = 12). The data are briefly discussed in relation to previous studies.
23227143|Digitaria cuatrecasasii, a new species from Honduras, Panam, Colombia and Venezuela, is described and illustrated. The taxonomic position of D. cuatrecasasii is discussed, and its inclusion in sect. Leianthae is proposed. A comparative table and some remarks about the related taxa are included. Digitaria californica var. villosissima, D. corynotricha, D. curvinervis, D. fragilis and D. sacchariflora are reported for the first time for Colombia. Digitaria aequiglumis var. aequiglumis, D. argillacea var. nulliseta, D. ciliaris var. rhachiseta, D. costaricensis, D. eriantha, D. filiformis var. laeviglumis, D. lehmanniana var. dasyantha, D. parva, D. sacchariflora and D. ternata are cited for the first time for Venezuela. Digitaria cardenasiana and D. villiculmis are here sinonimized under D. corynotricha, and D. aequatorienis under D. pittieri. The following new records for countries are included as follows: D. argillacea var. argillacea for Per. D. argillacea var. nulliseta for Guatemala, D. curvinervis for Ecuador and Mxico, D. eriantha for Ecuador, D. fragilis for Nicaragua and Panam, D. lehmanniana var. lehmanniana for Cuba and D. leucites for Mxico. This paper includes synonymy, iconography, geographical distribution and ecology, vernacular names, specimens examined; a key for the identification of taxa is also given. Eleven species are illustrated for the first time. Digitaria cuatrecasasii, nueva especie de Honduras, Panam, Colombia y Venezuela, se describe e ilustra. Se discute la posicin taxonmica de D. cuatrecasasii y se propone su inclusin en la seccin Leianthae. Se provee una tabla comparativa con las especies de la seccin y observaciones referidas a la especie ms relacionada. Digitaria californica var. villosissima, D. corynotricha, D. curvinervis, D. fragilis y D. sacchariflora son citadas por primera vez en Colombia. Digitaria aequiglumis var. aequiglumis, D. argillacea var. nulliseta, D. ciliaris var. rhachiseta, D. costaricensis, D. eriantha, D. filiformis var. laeviglumis, D. lehmanniana var. dasyantha, D. parva, D. sacchariflora y D. ternata se mencionan por primera vez en Venezuela. Digitaria cardenasiana y D. villiculmis constituyen nuevos sinnimos de D. corynotricha; D. aequatorienis se subordina a D. pittieri. Se adicionan nuevas citas en los siguientes pases: D. argillacea var. argillacea en Per. D. argillacea var. nulliseta en Guatemala, D. curvinervis en Ecuador y Mexico, D. eriantha en Ecuador, D. fragilis en Nicaragua y Panam, D. lehmanniana var. lehmanniana en Cuba y D. leucites en Mxico. El trabajo incluye sinonimia, iconografa, distribucin geogrfica y ecologa, nombres vernculos y exsiccata. Se provee tambin una clave para la identificacin de los taxones. Once especies son ilustradas por primera vez.
23218119|Terminal dilated tracheids in the veinlets of some species of Atriplex (Chenopodiaceae). Specialized terminal veinlet elements are studied in 12 argentine species of Atriplex. These are dilated, bordered pitted tracheids with thick walls and of variable shape; oblong, more or less isodiametric, or irregular with short and acute processes; they occur as conspicuous massive cells of larger size than the other tracheary elements of the leaf. The morphological relationship of these cells with other kind of veinlet endings reported for several genera of dicots as tracheoidal idioblasts, spiral tracheids, sclerenchymatous idioblasts, etc. is discussed. The occurrence of intermediate, confusing "hybrid" types among them as well as the poorly understood role of these elements are also pointed out. The differences between these elements and cells not associated with the vascular system, observed by several authors in other genera of Chenopodiaceae, are also given.
23215046|Argentina's Urticaceae are represented by 7 genera and 24 species, out of which 4 are exotic and the remaining indigenous. A key for the differentiation of tribes and genera is provided, besides a specific key and illustrations of the species. 1) Cited for the first time for Argentina are : Urtica flabellata Knnth, Urtica buchtienii Ross and Pilea microphylla (L) Liebm. 2) Urtica chamaedryoides var. circularis (Hicken) Hauman is raised to the category of species. 3) Urtica minutifolia Gris. is passed to the synonymy of Urtica chamaedryoides subsp. microsperma Hauman. A resum of the characters of the family, with particular reference to those species represented in the Argentine, precedes the systematic treatment.
23212986|Fueron estudiadas las relaciones existentes entre tres entidades del gnero Chenopodium, que habitan en Argentina como ruderales e invasoras de los cultivos, Ch album, Ch. giganteum y Ch. zobelii. El carcter purpreo que caracteriza a Ch. giganteum es dominante y parece heredarse de acuerdo a una relacin mendeliana simple (3 : 1). Se observaron hbridos de fertilidad normal entre formas consideradas tpicas de Ch. giganteum y de Ch. album. La diferenciacin morfolgica entre Ch. album y Ch. zobelii est basada en caracteres un tanto vagos, que no permiten su exacta delimitacin. El cultivo de progenies pertenecientes al complejo Ch. album-zobelii permiti observar la existencia de bitipos de floracin precoz y tarda. Las caractersticas de Ch. zobelii fueron ms frecuentes en los bitipos precoces, pero la correlacin no fue absoluta. Adems fueron observados bitipos de poca de floracin intermedia. Los estudios citolgicos efectuados mostraron que los diferentes biotipos de este complejo, referidos como Ch. album, Ch. giganteum y Ch. zobelii poseen un nmero de cromosomas hexaploide (2n = 54), pero as tambin la existencia de un citotipo tetraploide (2n = 36). Las relaciones reproductivas entre el citotipo tetraploide y el resto del complejo no estn debidamente aclaradas, pero su semejanza morfolgica con las formas consideradas tpicas de Ch. album son muy pronunciadas. En vista de las consideraciones expuestas se sugiere la conveniencia de reunir las tres entidades que han sido descriptas, as como al citotipo tetraploide, bajo el nombre de la especie ms antigua, Ch. album, aunque se considera la posibilidad de que estudios posteriores demuestren la conveniencia de mantenerlas separadas a un nivel subespecfico.
90005716|Four new combinations in the genera
darwiniana.2.2.243|
               
23230233|The species in the Sporobolus indicus complex are analyzed for Argentina. Sporobolus indicus var. indicus and S. indicus var. andinus are recognized for Argentina based on significant value differences in culms height and inflorescence length, and the altitude of collection area. The var. andinus is a new record for the Argentinean flora and it is here illustrated. Sporobolus jacquemontii is excluded from Argentina and S. minor is considered as a synonymy of S. indicus var. indicus. Se analiza el complejo de especies relacionadas a Sporobolus indicus para la Argentina. Se reconocen las variedades S. indicus var. indicus y S. indicus var. andinus para la Argentina, sobre la base de diferencias significativas en la altura de las plantas, el largo de las inflorescencias y la altitud de los sitios de colecta. La variedad andinus representa una nueva cita para la flora argentina y se ilustra por primera vez. Se excluye a S. jacquemontii para la Argentina y se considera a S. minor como sinnimo de S. indicus var. indicus.
darwiniana.3.1.114|Recent phylogenetic studies provide evidence that the group of species considered under
23215044|All the results of the studies of the species of Ipheion and Nothoscordum for the Flora ilustrada de Entre Ros are given here. The diagnosis for both genera and the key for the delimitation of the neighbour genera : Allium, Triteleia, Brodiaea, Milla, Tristagma y Leucocoryne are also presented here. A taxonomic history of Ipheion is added; two sections in Ipheion are recognized: Ipheion and Hirtellum sect. nov. and two in Nothoscordum: Nothoscordum and Inodorum sect. nov. Keys for the identification of the species are given, with short descriptions of each one, synonyms, geographical distribution and herbarium material already examined. Analytical drawings of the species studied are given and their posible relation and affinities are established. Most of the studied type specimens have been illustrated. The following new names are proposed : N. nudicaule (Lehmann) comb. nov; N. bivalve (L.) Britton var. nanum (Gris.) nov. stat.; N. minarum Beauv. is reduced to var. minarum (Beauv.) nov. stat. of N. montevidense Beauv.; N. montevidense var. latitepalum, nov. var., is described. Ipheion sessile (Phil.). Traub is mentioned and illustrated; this specie comes from Chile. It was known in Uruguay with the wrong name of I. tweedieanum. The analytical drawings of I. dialystemon Guagl. are added.
23213900|Chabraea integrifolia Philippi, Linnaea 28: 716, 1856. (non Chabraea integrifolia Philippi, Anal. Univ. Chile 41: 744, 1872), is rehabilitated (due to the size of the plant, form and size of the involucre, type of pubescence, pollen and corolla size). The binomial was considered up to now a synonym of Leuceria lithospermifolia (Lessing) Reiche. Finally it is changed to the genus Leuceria and in consequence must be called: Leuceria integrifolia (Phil.) nov. comb.
23227134|Petunia interior and P. guarapuavensis are reported for the first time for the Argentinean flora, and their geographical distributions are updated. Petunia interior y P. guarapuavensis son citadas por pimera vez para la Flora Argentina, con una actualizacin de su distribucin geogrfica.
23230224|Campyloneurum angustipaleatum (Polypodiaceae), Elaphoglossum sellowianum (Dryopteridaceae), Hymenophyllum crispum and H. polyanthos (Hymenophyllaceae) are recorded for the first time for Argentina, and H. capurroi distribution is amended. Although their presence was expected because they are known from Bolivia, these records indicate that the fern flora of the Yungas and its neighboring areas in Argentina deserve more intensive exploration to increase the knowledge of its diversity. Campyloneurum angustipaleatum (Polypodiaceae), Elaphoglossum sellowianum (Dryopteridaceae), Hymenophyllum crispum, H. polyanthos (Hymenophyllaceae) se citan por primera vez para la Argentina, y se enmienda la distribucin de H. capurroi. A pesar de que su presencia era esperada debido a que se encuentran en Bolivia, estos registros indican que la flora de las Yungas y sus reas vecinas en Argentina merecen una exploracin ms intensiva para conocer mejor su diversidad.
23226721|Cunila is an American genus with about 23 species and a disjunctive distribution between the United States of America (from New York State to Texas and Florida) and Central America, and Southern Brazil, south of Uruguay and NE Argentina. Four species of Cunila (C. angustifolia, C. incana, C. microcephala and C. spicata) were recorded for Argentina, with an area of distribution ranging from Misiones to Santa Fe provinces. This contribution is a systematic review of this genus in Argentina, including descriptions, synonymies, new lectotypification, and a key to species. Morphological information and iconography of C. incana and C. spicata are provided. The area of distribution for Cunila microcephala is extended 4 degrees West (ca. 62 Long. W), up to Santa Fe province, Castellanos department. Cunila es un gnero americano con cerca de 23 especies de distribucin disyunta: un rea comprende Estados Unidos de Amrica (desde el Estado de Nueva York hasta Texas y Florida) y Centroamrica, y la otra desde el sur de Brasil y Uruguay hasta el noreste de Argentina. Cunila est representado en Argentina por 4 especies que se distribuyen desde Misiones hasta Santa Fe: Cunila angustifolia, C. incana, C. microcephala y C. spicata. Se presenta una revisin sistemtica del gnero en Argentina, se describen las especies con sus sinnimos, se lectotipifican nuevamente los nombres, se presentan mapas de distribucin con la ampliacin de rea para C. microcephala 4 grados hacia el oeste (ca. 62 Long. O) hasta el departamento de Castellanos, provincia de Santa Fe. Se aporta iconografa sobre C. spicata y C. incana, datos micromorfolgicos y claves de especies.
23211955|Verf. liefert Nachtraege zu seinen Ericceas argentinas (Lilloa XXV (1951) 515-536) und Proteaceae americanae (Bot. Jahrb. 76 (1954) 139-211) auf Grund neuer Funde auf einer von ihm im Jahre 1953 unternommenen Sammelreise durch den nordoestlichen Teil der Prov. Salta, Dep. Sta. Victoria. Ferner wird Solanum clavatum Rusby fuer Argentinien festgestellt und neu beschrieben und die Identitt von Lycium herzogii Damm. mit Dunalia steinbachii Sleum. sichergestellt.
23211567|El autor hace una revisin de las especies argentinas ya conocidas, que son nueve, optando por suprimir variedades citadas anteriormente, de difcil o imposible delimitacin. Agrega una especie nueva (Eichhornia Meyeri). Informa sobre diversas observaciones efectuadas en plantas vivas, en su propio ambiente, referentes a aspectos etolgicos, caracteres organogrficos, formas juveniles y adultas, etc. Adems da la distribucin geogrfica y claves para gneros y especies.
23222988|An account is given of the spore germination and young gametophytes of two species of Blechnum L. and one hybrid: B. australe subsp. auriculatum (Cav.) de la Sota; B. laevigatum Cav. and B. australe subsp. auriculatum x B. laevigatum. In these taxa some young gametophytes tend to branch; branches were formed on the first, second or even the fourth cell in the filament. Some of the branches end in a laminar portion while others remain filamentous.
23226714|Lichens can affect buildings and monuments inducing a negative aesthetical impact as well as causing deterioration through mechanical and chemical processes. Given that cement mortars and concrete are the primary 20th century building materials worldwide, it is important to study lichens growing on this substrate. In a survey of different localities of Buenos Aires Province, 33 species growing on mortars and concrete were collected and identified utilizing morphological and chemical studies. Results showed that Staurothele frustulenta is a new record for Argentina, and Acarospora subcastanea is a new record for Buenos Aires Province. A high number of foliose lichens (15 species) were registered. Some species were previously only known on tree barks, but in this study they were encountered colonizing cement materials as well. Los lquenes pueden afectar edificios y monumentos causando un impacto esttico negativo, como tambin ocasionar deterioro por procesos mecnicos y qumicos. Puesto que los morteros de cemento y hormigones han sido el material de construccin ms utilizado en el mundo durante el siglo XX, es importante estudiar los lquenes que crecen sobre estos sustratos. En un estudio realizado en diferentes localidades de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, se hallaron 33 especies creciendo sobre morteros y hormigones, identificadas por medio de estudios morfolgicos y qumicos. Staurothele frustulenta es nueva para el pas y Acarospora subcastanea es nueva para la Provincia. Se registr una alta proporcin de lquenes foliosos (15 especies en total). Algunas de estas especies slo se conocidas sobre cortezas de rboles, fueron encontradas colonizando materiales de cemento.
23215702|Two species of Ephedra, E. breana Phil. and E. ochreata Miers are studied from the point of view of the chemotaxonomy. Three alkaloids (one of them ephedrine), tannins, sterols, leucoanthocyanins and triterpene glycosides have been found. Cardiac glycosides, flavonoids, free flavenols and saponins were not detected. The two species mainly differed in the larger proportion of triterpene glycosides present in Ephedra ochreata and in the paper chromatography after the alkaline extraction of alkaloids, observed by U. V. That observation reveals a bluish spot in E. ochreata not present in E. breana.
23223248|This is the first contribution to the lignicolous marine fungi from Mar Chiquita coastal lagoon, Argentina. Twelve species were collected from Spartina densiflora Brongn. and drift culms. Nine species of Ascomycotina were found: Chaetomastia typhicola (Karsten) Barr, Didymosphaeria lignomaris Strongman & Miller, Leptosphaeria australiensis (Cribb & Cribb) G.C. Hughes, L. oraemaris Linder, L. pelagica Jones, Passeriniella obiones (Crouan & Crouan) Hyde & Mouzouras, Phaeosphaeria spartinae (Ellis & Everhart) Shoemaker & Babcock, Ph. spartinicola Leuchtmann, Sphaerulina oraemaris Linder. Also, three species of Deuteromycotina were found: Phoma glomerata Wollenw. & Hochapfand, Zalerion maritimum (Linder) Anastasiou and Z. varium Anastasiou. Didymosphaeria lignomaris, L. australiensis, L. pelagica and S. oraemaris are new records for South America.
23215048|The type species of the genus Spermacoce, S. tenuior L. is under study. The opinion adopted by A. Rendle (1934-36) in the selection of a typical sample for this species is rejected. Furthermore, S. riparia Cham. et Schlecht. and a new species from Brazil, S. pilifera, are considered. The genus Spermacoceodes O. K. is re-stablished with a single species, S. glabrum (Michx.) O. K., according to this indehiscent fruits, but not because of the reason given by its author. A new variety, var. rectum, is recognized in S. glabrum.
23217340|Mycoparasitic Mucorales in soil of Nothofagus sp. forest. Four species of Syncephalis, namely S. annularis, S. obconica, S. tenuis, S. fuscata and two of Piptocephalis namely, P. cylindrospora and P. cruciata. first recorded for Argentina are described. They were isolated from soil of Nothofagus pumilio forest.
23612321|Munroa is a morphologically heterogeneous American genus of grasses, including five species with disjunct distribution in North and South America. Dasyochloa is a monotypic grass genus, common in western North America, with a controversial taxonomic position, because it has been alternatively included in Erioneuron, Koeleria, Triodia, and Uralepis. We evaluated the relationship of Dasyochloa with Munroa using a phylogenetic analysis of qualitative and quantitative morphological data. Dasyochloa was not supported as an independent genus from Munroa, as Dasyochloa and Munroa species formed a monophyletic group defined by seven synapomorphies. On this basis, we transfer Dasyochloa to Munroa, and propose the new combination M. pulchella together with the emended diagnosis of Munroa. Munroa es un gnero Americano morfolgicamente heterogneo, con cinco especies y distribucin disyunta en Amrica del Norte y del Sur. Dasyochloa es un gnero monotpico, comn en el oeste de Norteamrica, con una historia taxonmica compleja porque ha sido incluido alternativamente en Erioneuron, Koeleria, Triodia y Uralepis. En este trabajo evaluamos las relaciones de Dasyochloa y Munroa con base en un anlisis filogentico con caracteres morfolgicos cualitativos y cuantitativos. Dasyochloa no result independiente de Munroa, ya que ambos gneros formaron un grupo monofiltico definido por siete sinapomorfas. Sobre esta base, transferimos Dasyochloa a Munroa y proponemos la nueva combinacin M. pulchella, junto con una enmienda en la diagnosis de Munroa.
23226696|The family Apocynaceae s. str. (Apocynaceae s. l. subfamilies Apocynoideae and Rauvolfioideae) is reviewed for the Republic of El Salvador, Central America. Seventeen native genera (Allotoonia, Alstonia, Aspidosperma, Cascabela, Echites, Fernaldia, Forsteronia, Mandevilla, Mesechites, Pentalinon, Plumeria, Prestonia, Rauvolfia, Stemmadenia, Tabernaemontana, Thevetia, Vallesia) are accounted for, as well as five introduced genera (Allamanda, Beaumontia, Carissa, Catharanthus, Nerium). The most species-rich genera are Mandevilla and Prestonia, with four species each. A total of 34 species are reported. Family, genus, and species descriptions are provided, together with keys and representative specimen citations. Bibliographic references, common names, uses (when known), and photographs are also included. Se presenta un tratamiento florstico de la familia Apocynaceae, subfamilias Rauvolfioideae y Apocynoideae, para la Repblica de El Salvador, Centroamrica. Como resultado, se informan 17 gneros nativos (Allotoonia, Alstonia, Aspidosperma, Cascabela, Echites, Fernaldia, Forsteronia, Mandevilla, Mesechites, Pentalinon, Plumeria, Prestonia, Rauvolfia, Stemmadenia, Tabernaemontana, Thevetia, Vallesia) y cinco introducidos (Allamanda, Beaumontia, Carissa, Catharanthus, Nerium). Se trata un total de 34 especies, siendo Mandevilla y Prestonia los gneros con mayor nmero de especies (4), ninguna de ellas endmica. Se incluyen descripciones de la familia, los gneros y las especies, adems de claves y especmenes representativos examinados. Asimismo se incluyen referencias bibliogrficas, nombres comunes, usos (cuando disponibles) y fotografas.
23223012|The 83 pollen types identified in the honeys from the northwest of the Buenos Aires province are described and illustrated with light and SEM photomicrographs. The morphological types described belong to 46 Angiosperm families. The Compositae, Leguminosae and Umbelliferae, are the more represented families.
23211773|El autor da a conocer el nmero de cromosomas de veinte y una especies del gnero Prosopis. De ellas diez y seis son indgenas en la Repblica Argentina; una asitica (Irn) y cuatro norteamericanas (Estados Unidos de Amrica del Norte). Diez y siete son nuevas para la citologa.
23218075|The seed proteins of Bulnesia chilensis (Chile) and B. retama (Per, Argentina) were studied by polyacrylamide electrophoresis and compared with the other six species of the genus. In total 90 different bands were identified. These were treated numerically by cluster analysis by the unweighted pair - group method (UPGMA). The two main groups that can be distinguished on the basis of the protein patterns, each composed of 4 species (fig. 2) constitute the two subgenera recognized in a new taxonomic revision. (Palacios and Hunziker, 1984). Several species pairs composed of phenetically similar taxa are clearly seen in the phenogram (fig. 2). These are: B. arborea - B. carrapo, B. schickendantzii B. foliosa and B. retama - B. chilensis. The species pair B. foliosa - B. schickendantzii present the most similar protein patterns and thus show the shortest taxonomic distance in the phenogram. On the other hand, the isolated populations of B. retama from Per and Argentina, which show some protein band differences, exhibit greater taxonomic distances than the previously mentioned species pair. Within the subgenus Gonopterodendron, B. bonariensis, which is the only polyploid species and B. sarmientoi, which morphologically shows several reductions (carpel and leaflet numbers, etc.) appear as the most distant species. The electrophoretic results are congruent with a previous numerical analysis of exomorphological characteristics (Crisci et al., 1979) and with the recent taxonomic subdivision of the genus (Palacios and Hunziker, 1984) thus showing once more the reliability of protein electrophoresis as a method for the study of species relationships.
41825711|Sustainable forest management requires appropriate mapping information. In this work we developed a mapping of the current vegetation of Bioko island (Equatorial Guinea) based on supervised classification of a Landsat 7 ETM +, and a mapping of Afromontane forests, including data distribution, surface and forest types where Prunus africana occurs. We propose six new types of transitional vegetation between Guinean-Congolese forest and Afromontane forests and different secondary Afromontane formations. The vegetation map of Bioko had a Kappa coefficient of 0.69. Difficulties were encountered in separating secondary lowland forest classes from transition zones between Guineo-Congolian and Afromontane forests. Accuracy was highly improved when a second classification was restricted to the island's Afromontane vegetation (> 1400 m a.s.l.), yielding a Kappa coefficient of 0.81. Our results have appropiate accuracy for forest management demonstrating that remote sensing is a useful source for mapping development, especially in tropical areas with difficult access. La gestin forestal sostenible requiere de una informacin cartogrfica adecuada. En este trabajo se elabor una cartografa actual de la vegetacin de la isla de Bioko (Guinea Ecuatorial) basada en la clasificacin supervisada de una imagen Landsat 7 ETM+, y una cartografa de la vegetacin del piso afromontano, que incluye datos de la distribucin, la superficie y los tipos forestales con presencia de Prunus africana. Se proponen seis nuevos tipos de vegetacin de transicin entre los bosques Guineo-Congolesa y los bosques afromontanos, y distintas formaciones afromontanas secundarias. El mapa de vegetacin de Bioko tuvo un coeficiente Kappa de 0,69. Los principales errores se asociaron a las clases correspondientes a bosque secundarios de tierras bajas y a las zonas de transicin entre los bosques congoleses y afromontanos. La fiabilidad del anlisis mejor en una segunda clasificacin restringida a la vegetacin afromontana de la isla (> 1400 m s. m.), obtenindose un coeficiente Kappa de 0,81. En este trabajo se muestra la utilidad de la teledeteccin para la elaboracin de cartografa en zonas tropicales de escasa accesibilidad, dado que se obtuvieron resultados con una fiabilidad adecuada para la gestin forestal.
23226718|Paspalum gracielae sp. nov. (Poaceae, Paniceae), from Argentina (Salta Province), is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to the subgenus Ceresia, and is related to P. ceresia. A key to the argentinean species of this subgenus is included. Se describe e ilustra Paspalum gracielae sp. nov. (Poaceae, Paniceae) coleccionada en la provincia de Salta, Argentina. Dicha especie pertenece al subgnero Ceresia, y es afn a P. ceresia. Asimismo se proporciona una clave para diferenciar las especies argentinas del mencionado subgnero.
23215738|Se han estudiado los elementos traqueales no perforados de algunas especies de Mirtceas argentinas, plantendose el problema de su clasificacin dada la diversidad de los mismos. Siguiendo el criterio aconsejado por el Comit de Nomenclatura de la Asociacin Internacional de Anatomistas de Maderas, que se basa en la naturaleza de las punteaduras, algunos de los elementos observados en Myrceugenella apiculata, Myrceugenia chrysocarpa, Amomyrtus luma, Blepharocalyx gigantea y B. tweediei deben clasificarse como traqueidas. Estas son semejantes a las citadas para gneros y/o familias poco evolucionadas de las dicotiledneas y para ciertas Coniferales y Gnetales. La presencia de este carcter anatmico primitivo no haba sido citado hasta el presente para las Mirtceas y reviste inters desde el punto de vista filogentico. Existen otros elementos con punteaduras de areola reducida que se clasifican como fibro-traqueidas y finalmente en otros casos el borde est ausente, tratndose por lo tanto de fibras liberiformes, con punteaduras simples. En algunas especies se observa toda la transicin entre estos elementos, siendo necesario un cuidadoso estudio comparativo de la clase de punteaduras visibles para establecer una clasificacin, ya que la presencia o ausencia de borde es el carcter ms seguro para tener en cuenta. La autora analiza en la primer parte del trabajo, los criterios recomendados por los anatomistas de maderas que definieron a los elementos traqueales no perforados de las Gimnospermas y Angiospermas en las sucesivas ediciones del Glosario de trminos como asimismo los problemas originados en su clasificacin. This paper deals with the imperforate tracheary elements of some species of argentine Myrtaceae. On account of these elements exhibit a great diversity, the problem of its classification it was stated. If the definitions and recommendations of the Committee on Nomenclature of the International Association of Wood Anatomists are to be adopted-based largely on the nature of the pitting-some of these elements must be classified as tracheids, as it were observed in Myrceugenella apiculata, Myrceugenia chrysocarpa, Amomyrtus luma, Blepharocalyx gigantea and B. tweediei. These tracheids are very similar to those of various representantives of the Gnetales, Coniferales and many families or genera of dicotyledons, considered as primitive. The presence of tracheids in the Myrtaceae is recorded for the first time here and obviously this character is important from the phylogenetic point of view. Other imperforate tracheary elements with pits of reduced borders were classified as fibretracheids, being libriform fibres when the border is absent. Some species exhibit a graded series of transitional forms among the 3 types of imperforate elements, whereas a careful comparative study of the pitting was carried out in order to classify them properly. The definitions recommended by that Committee of Wood Anatomists and the problems originated about the classification of the imperforate tracheary elements of the dicotyledons were analized by the author in the first part of the paper.
23212178|El presente trabajo consiste en la seleccin de un mtodo simple y rpido para el aislamiento en cultivo paro de Cianofceas, Diatomeas y Clorofceas monocelulares, como una etapa previa para el estudio de estos microorganismos al estado puro. El material usado proviene de numerosos orgenes, con el fin de conseguir el mayor nmero de formas posibles y tratar de establecer luego su ecologa. De cada muestra se efectuaron: un estudio microscpico; siembras en medios lquidos para obtener cultivos de enriquecimiento; y siembras en medios de cultivo slidos para su aislamiento. Los cultivos de enriquecimiento se efectuaron con el objeto de intentar nuevos aislamientos en el caso de que fracasaran los aislamientos directos y, adems, para tratar de obtener el aislamiento de formas -que estuvieran mezcladas en poca cantidad en el material original.
90005709|
               
23211950|Of the 26 Argentine species of Clavariaceae (Fungi-Basidiomycetes) recorded in this paper, fifteen are new records for Argentina and five are new species, namely Clavaria minima, Clavulinopsis hexaspora, Parapterulicium simplex, Ramaria aurantiaca, and Ramaria camellia. Three new combinations are made, namely Clavulina puiggarii (Speg.) for Clavaria puiggarii Speg., Clavicorona turgida (Lv.) for C. javanica Lv. and Ramaria patagonica (Speg.) for Clavaria patagonica Speg. In addition, Clavaria pampaeana Speg. is reduced to Clavaria acuta Fr., and both Ramaria polypus Corner and Clavaria kisantuensis Sacc. are reduced to Ramaria moelleriana (Bres. et Roum.) Corner. Se enumeran 26 especies argentinas de Hongos Basidiomycetes de la familia Clavariaceae, con citacin del material estudiado, sinnimos y observaciones. Quince especies son primeras menciones para la flora argentina y cinco son nuevas especies para la ciencia, a saber: Clavaria minima, Clavulinopsis hexaspora, Parapterulicium simplex, Ramaria aurantiaca y R. camellia. El autor hace tres combinaciones nuevas: Clavulina puiggarii (Speg.) para Clavaria puiggarii; Clavicorona turgida (Lv.) para C. javanica Lv. y Ramaria patagonica (Speg.) Clavaria patagonica (Speg.). Adems, se reduce Clavaria pampaeana Speg. a Clavaria acuta Fr. y Ramaria polypus Corner y Clavaria kisantuensis Sacc., ambas a Ramaria moelleriana (Bres. & Roum.) Corner.
23212991|Tropaeolum majus se halla parasitado en La Plata y otras partes del mundo por un Hifomicete referido hasta hoy a Heterosporium tropaeoli Bond. Los estudios realizados han permitido establecer que el hongo en cuestin pertenece a un gnero nuevo para el cual se propone el nombre de Acroconidiella, fundndose en consecuencia la combinacin Acroconidiella tropaeoli (Bond) nov. comb. Este gnero se caracteriza porque sus esporas se forman en el pice de los conidiforos emergiendo de los mismos a travs de un poro. Estos conidios son cilindrceos o elipsideos con 0-3 tabiques (en su mayora 2). Este gnero es vecino de Alternaria y Curvularia; del primero difiere porque las esporas no son muriformes ni estn encadenadas y del segundo porque sus esporas son rectas y sus clulas de igual dimensin y tonalidad uniforme. Se trata de un hongo patgeno que provoca sntomas necrticos en las hojas, cuya virulencia se ha comprobado experimentalmente. Tropaeolum majus is parasitized in La Plata, as in other parts of the world, by a Hyphomycete heretofore known as Heterosporium tropaeoli Bond. From the results of the studies conducted by the authors it is concluded that this fungus belongs to a new genus, for which the name Acroconidiella and the combination Acroconidiella tropaeoli (Bond) nov. comb., are proposed. This genus is characterized by its spores which are formed on the apex of the conidiophores, emerging through a pore. These conidia are cylindrical or ellipsoideal, with 0-3 septae (mainly 2). This genus is closely related to Alternaria and Curvularia. From the former it differs by its spores not being muriform nor chained; from the latter it differs because its spores are straight and its cells are of uniform size and color. This fungus is a pathogen which produces necrotic symptoms on the leaves. Its virulence has been demonstrated by experimental research work.
23222535|A disjunct species in Eleocharis (Cyperaceae). The study of the type specimens of Eleocharis cylindrica Buckley, described from Texas, Estados Unidos and E. spegazzinii Barros from Argentina and Paraguay, together with the peculiar characteristic that both possess an intermediate anatomy between non Kranz and Kranz-Fimbristyloid types, let us to establish that they belong to the same species with a disjunct area. The valid name by priority is E. cylindrica; it belongs to series Palustriformis, subseries Truncatae. A key to distinguish it from E. tricostata Torrey, E. parishii Britton and E. dombeyana Kunth, closely related species, is given.
23223890|A study has been carried out in farming communities of the cloud forests in the Upper Bermejo Basin, Province of Salta, Argentina to document the use of plants involved in the manufacture of "yista". "Yista" is the name given to alkaline substances used during insalivation of "coca" (Erythroxylum coca Lam. var. coca) leaves. To obtain "yista", selected plants have to be burned. Twenty-seven native species and five exotic plant species were recorded as present or past sources of "yista". The scientific and common names, plant part employed as well as the communities where their use has been recorded are presented. The method employed to prepare "yista" is described and illustrated. El estudio se desarroll en comunidades campesinas de la selva nublada, en la alta cuenca del ro Bermejo, Provincia de Salta, Argentina con el objeto de documentar el uso de plantas involucradas en la elaboracin de "yista". "Yista" es el nombre asignado a las sustancias alcalinas utilizadas durante la insalivacin de hojas de coca (Erythroxylum coca Lam. var. coca). Para la obtencin de la "yista" las plantas seleccionadas deben ser incineradas. Se registraron veintisiete especies nativas y cinco exticas empleadas, en el presente o en el pasado, para preparar "yista". Se mencionan los nombres cientficos y vulgares y las porciones de la planta utilizadas, y la comunidad donde se registr el uso. Se describe e ilustra el modo de preparar "yista".
23215668|Die Verfasser beschftigen sich mit drei Nitella  Arten des La Plata  Stromes. Das Material wurde von Ing. Arturo Burkart am Ufer des Flusses in Acassuso (San Isidro, Prov. Buenos Aires) gesammelt. Zwei Arten, N. acuminata var. greenii und N. stuartii vel aff., werden zum ersten Mal fr Argentinien beschrieben, die dritte Art, N. bonarensis ist schon aus diesem Gebiet bekannt. Der Fund von N. stuartii (vel affinis) ist besonders interessant, weil die Antheridien eine seltenere bei Characeen vorkommende Struktur aufweisen. Antheridien mit 4 Schildern sind bisher nur von den Taxonen von Chara zeylanica und von N. terrestris bekannt. Alle drei Arten werden ausfhrlich beschrieben und abgebildet.
23218932|Marine Cyanophyceae from Rio Negro province (Argentina). I. Sixty-five species of marine Cyanophyceae from the coast of Rio Negro province are recorded for the first time, in Argentina. One genus, Hormothamnion Grunow and nine species: Hydrocoleum cantharidosmum (Mont.) Gomont, H. coccineum Gomont, Lyngbya holdenii Forti, Microcoleus sanctae-crucis Frmy, Hormothamnion enteromorphoides Grunow, Nostoc zetterstedtii Aresch., Calothrix codicola Setch. & Gardner, C. pilosa Harvey and Rivularia polyotis (Agardh) Born. & Flahault are briefly described as new records for Argentina. The twenty-nine genera recorded are included in eight families: Chroococcaceae, Dermocarpaceae, Pleurocapsaceae, Oscillatoriaceae, Nostocaceae, Rivulariaceae, Scytonemataceae and Stigonemataceae. Different habitats have been observed depending on the kind of substratum, e. g.: endophytic (intercellular), epiphytic, epizootic, lithophytic, muddy-soil, planktonic and shellperforating. Thirty-six species related to the binding of soil particles in marine "biodermas" have been identified from twelve samples of "algal crusts".
23213811|Se ilustran y describen las 4 especies de Richardia representadas en la flora argentina: R. humistrata (Cham. et Schlecht.) Steud., R. stellaris (Cham. et Schlecht.) Steud., R. brasiliensis Gomes y R. grandiflora (Cham. et Schlecht.) Steud. Se cita por primera vez R. grandiflora para nuestro territorio, y se ampla el rea de R. humistrata mencionada slo para Misiones. Se observan flores casmgamas y cleistgamas en R. stellaris. The four species of Richardia in the Argentine flora are illustrated and described: R. humistrata (Cham. et Schlecht.) Steud., R. stellaris (Cham. et Schlecht.) Steud., R. brasiliensis Gomes and R. grandiflora (Cham. et Schlecht.) Steud. One of them, R. grandiflora, is cited the first time for this country and the area of R. humistrata, formerly only referred to Misiones, is widened. Cleistogamous and chasmogamous flowers were observed in R. stellaris.
23228367|Vittaria graminifolia is recorded for the first time for Corrientes and Misiones, Argentina. A key to differentiate the two species of Vittaria in Argentina is given, and V. graminifolia is illustrated and described. Argyrochosma nivea var. flava, known for NW and Central Argentina, is recorded for the first time for the NE. The distribution and ecology of these species are discussed. Se cita por primera vez para Argentina a Vittaria graminifolia (Vittariaceae) coleccionada en las provincias de Corrientes y Misiones. Se aporta una clave para diferenciar las dos especies de Vittaria presentes en el pas, y se ilustra y describe V. graminifolia. Argyrochosma nivea var. flava (Pteridaceae), conocida para el NO y centro argentino, se registra por primera vez para el NE. Se brindan comentarios sobre la distribucin y ecologa de las especies mencionadas.
23223915|Type material of two species of Spermacoce, S. laevis Lam. and S. remota Lam. was analized. As a result, and taking into account several morphological characters, S. laevis should remain within Spermacoce, while S. remota is transfered to the genus Borreria. The latter species is designed as type of Borreria Series Laeves, since the previous designation of Borreria laevis is in serious conflict with the protologue of the Series (art. 10.5 of the ICBN). Se analiz el material tipo de dos especies de Spermacoce, S. laevis Lam. y S. remota Lam. Sobre la base de los caracteres morfolgicos estudiados, se confirma la identidad de S. laevis Lam. y se transfiere S. remota al gnero Borreria. A la vez se selecciona a esta ltima especie como tipo de Borreria Series Laeves (Bacigalupo & Cabral, 1996), en reemplazo de Borreria laevis (Lam.) Griseb., por estar esta ltima especie en conflicto con el protlogo de la serie descripta por Bacigalupo y Cabral (art. 10.5 del ICBN).
23218918|Ruellia sanguinea (Acanthaceae) and allied species in Argentina, Uruguay and southern Brazil. In this area, species allied to Ruellia sanguinea Griseb. are characterized by their narrow red corollas with small semierect lobes which suggest hummingbird pollination, their few-seeded clavate capsules, and their glabrous seeds with hairy margins. Four species are delimited, described, and illustrated, and distribution maps are given. A new combination is proposed: Ruellia brevifolia (Pohl) Ezcurra, and the names R. graecizans Backer, R. serratitheca Rusby, and R. kuntzei Lindau, are reduced to synonymy for the first time. Ruellia longipedunculata Lindau, known for Bolivia, is now reported for Argentina. The area of Ruellia angustiflora (Nees) Lindau ex Rambo is expanded to southern Brazil, SE Paraguay, NE Argentina and northern Uruguay, and R. sanguinea, having been erroneously confused with that species, is excluded from that area, thriving instead in southern Bolivia and NW Argentina.
23216504|The 8 species of the genus Callitriche represented in Argentine are illustrated and described. Two of them are terrestrial species: C. deflexa A. Br. ex Hegelm. and C. terrestris subsp. subsessilis (Fassett) Bacig. and subsp. turfosa (Bert. emend. Hegelm.) Bacig. The others are aquatics or amphibious: C. antarctica Engelm. ex Hegelm., C. rimosa Fassett, C. lechleri (Hegelm.) Fassett, C. heterophylla Pursh emend. Darby, C. heteropoda Engelm. ex Hegelm. and C. truncata Guss. The two last are new for the area studied.
23225134|Sisymbrium carolinense sp. nov. (Brassicaceae), from mountains of northern San Luis province (Argentina), is described. In addition, a distribution map, illustrations, and a key to differentiate this new taxon from S. andinum, its closely related species, are included. Se describe Sisymbrium carolinense sp. nov. para el rea de las sierras del norte de la provincia de San Luis (Argentina). Asimismo se incluyen un mapa de distribucin, ilustraciones, y una clave para diferenciarla de S. andinum, la especie morfolgicamente ms cercana.
23212163|Les auteurs dcrivent une nouvelle espce de la famille des Asclepiadaces, Schubertia Schreiteri Descol. et Meyer, nov. spec., trouve dans la province de Salta (Rpublique Argentine), et voisine de S. grandiflora Mart. et S. hamata Fourn.
23227936|The South American flora includes 65 genera of Caesalpinioideae (Leguminosae) with wide morphological variation. The four tribes of that subafmily are represented: 31 genera belong to the Caesalpinieae (3 of them introduced); 9 to the Cassieae; 2 to Cercideae (1 introduced), and 23 to Detarieae (2 introduced). Among the South American Caesalpinoideae, 30 genera are endemic (mainly to Brazil), the remaining ones inhabit in tropical and subtropical areas from both hemispheres. All of them grow in diverse habitats: from rainforests, evergreen or deciduous forests, to savannas, semi-deserts and high mountains. Tribes and genera are arranged according to Polhill & Raven (1981), only Poepiggia has been transferred from Caesalpinieae to Cassieae, and Ceratonia from Cassieae to Caesalpinieae. Both Detarieae and Caesalpinia are treated here sensu lato. Cercidium and Parkinsonia are treated as separate taxa until new biosystematic studies and combinations are made. Sclerolobium is included under the synonymy of Tachigali, and Phyllocarpus under Barnebydendron. The genus Thylacanthus is considered of doubtful introduction. Geographic range area in Argentina is expanded for of Zuccagnia punctata and Parkinsonia aculeata. Barnebydendron, Brodriguesia, Ecuadendron, Orphanodendron and Pomaria are treated jointly for the first time for South America. In addition, keys to tribes and genera, generic descriptions, updated bibliography, iconography, remarks, distribution, nomenclatural types, representative specimens, utilization and illustrations for some species are included. La flora sudamericana posee 65 gneros de Caesalpinioideae (Leguminosae) con gran variacin morfolgica, distribuidos en las 4 tribus de esta subfamilia: Caesalpinieae con 31 gneros (3 de ellos introducidos); Cassieae con 9 gneros; Cercideae con 2 gneros (1 introducido) y Detarieae con 23 gneros nativos (2 introducidos). De las Caesalpinoideae sudamericanas, 30 gneros son endmicos (en su mayora de Brasil), y los restantes habitan principalmente los trpicos y subtrpicos de ambos hemisferios. Todos ellos ocupan ambientes variados, desde selvas tropicales, bosques perennifolios y caducifolios, hasta sabanas, semidesiertos y alta montaa. En la clasificacin de los gneros se ha seguido el sistema de Polhill & Raven (1981). Solamente Poepiggia ha pasado de las Caesalpinieae a Cassieae, y Ceratonia de las Cassieae a las Caesalpinieae. Por otro lado, se aceptan sensu lato tanto al gnero Caesalpinia como a la tribu Detarieae. Se trata Cercidium separado de Parkinsonia, hasta que no se completen nuevos estudios biosistemticos y se realicen las combinaciones necesarias. Sclerolobium se considera sinnimo de Tachigali, y Phyllocarpus de Barnebydendron. El gnero Thylacanthus es considerado como de introduccin dudosa. Se hacen tambin observaciones sobre la extensin del rea de Zuccagnia punctata y Parkinsonia aculeata para la Argentina. Por primera vez se tratan conjuntamente para Sudamrica los gneros Barnebydendron, Brodriguesia, Ecuadendron, Orphanodendron y Pomaria. Adems se brindan claves para el reconocimiento de las tribus y los gneros, descripciones genricas, bibliografa actualizada, iconografa, observaciones, distribucin, citas de tipos nomenclaturales, material representativo, usos e ilustraciones de algunas especies.
23223014|Metastelma australe Malme is transferred to the genus Tweedia and the name Tweedia odonellii Meyer is reduced to synonymy of T. australis (Malme) C. Ezcurra comb. nov. The latter is the correct name for this species of southern Argentina.
23222557|The generic limits of Brachiaria and Urochloa are discussed, considering Brachiaria represented in America by a single introduced species, Brachiaria eruciformis (Smith) Griseb.; this genus is characterized by its dorsiventral inflorescences, spikelets with the upper anthecium early deciduous, muticuous and smooth, with a subcircular callus at its base. Urochloa comprises twenty two species in South America, nine of them introduced, being the genus characterized by including species with radiate or bilateral inflorescences, spikelets with the upper anthecium not early deciduous and transversely rugose, aristulate or crested at the apex of the lemma, with a triangular callus at its base. Both genera share a similar anatomical pattern, being Kranz of the PCK anatomical type. Eleven new combinations are proposed: U. albicoma (Swallen & Garca-Barriga) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. arrecta (Hackel ex T. Durand & Schinz) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. humidicola (Rendle) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. lorentziana (Mez) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. megastachya (Nees ex Trin.) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. mollis (Sw.) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. multiculma (Andersson) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. oblita (Swallen) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. paucispicata (Morong) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. ruziziensis (R. Germ. & Evrard) Morrone & Zuloaga, U. vittata (Stapf) Morrone & Zuloaga. The species are described and several of them illustrated and keys to all species are given; two new chromosome counts are included for U. lorentziana and U. paucispicata. Relationships of Brachiaria and Urochloa with related genera of the Paniceae are also included.
darwiniana.2.1.96|The carpological records of edible plant resources exploited within the last 4000 years were recovered from various archaeological sites located in different environmental zones, in southern Mendoza, Argentina. This analysis was performed considering the local environmental heterogeneity and the Optimal Foraging Theory, to determine whether the records are consistent with a model of resource intensification proposed for southern Mendoza from the study of lithic matherials and archaeofauna. The archeological material was recovered by the technique of flotation and sieve which allowed to apply different quantitative analysis in order to evaluate inter- and intra-site variability. Both spatial and temporal variations in the use of these plant resources were detected. Plant resources were used for different purposes other than those strictly related to diet. This study allowed to contextualize the archaeobotanical information, to discuss previous ideas regarding the intensification processes in the region, and to explore new lines of evidence in central and western Argentina.
23215715|Este trabajo consiste en el estudio taxonmico de las especies Argentinas del gnero Digitaria Heister ex Haller (Gramineae), subgnero Digitaria, aunque se incluyen tambin algunas especies propias de pases limtrofes. Henrard (1950), establece que dicho subgnero comprende 32 secciones, de las cuales ll estn representadas en nuestro pas. Se han adaptado las secciones, de acuerdo a nuestras especies, llegndose a reconocer 5 para nuestra flora. Han sido estudiadas 23 especies y 6 variedades, que se distribuyen en las secciones en la siguiente forma: secc. Trichachne (Nees) Henr., que comprende los siguientes taxones: D. laxa (Reich.) Parodi, D. insularis (L.) Mez, D. sacchariflora (Raddi) Henr., D. californica (Benth.) Henr., D. californica var. villosissima Henr. y D. swalleniana Henr. Secc. Phaeotrichae nov. secc. integrada por: D. enodis (Hack.) Parodi (Uruguay), D. chacoensis (Parodi) Henr., D. phaeotrix (Trin.) Parodi, D. phaeotrix var. adusta (Nees) Rgolo, D. phaeotrix var. hackelii (Arech.) Henr., D. phaeotrix var. saltensis (Henr.) nov. comb. (Uruguay), y D. leiantha (Hackel) Parodi. Secc. Ternatae Hackel que comprende, D. ternata (Rich.) Stapf, D. filiformis (L.) Koel., D. ischaemum (Schr.) Schreber (Chile), D. balansae Henr., D. violascens Link, D. singularis Mez, nueva para el pas, D. lehmanniana Henr., (Bolivia y Per) y D. lehmanniana var. dasyantha Rgolo. Secc. Aequiglumae que comprende, D. eritrostachya Mez, D. aequiglumis (Hack. et Arech) Parodi, D. aequiglumis var. laetevirens (Mez) Henr. y D. cuyabensis (Trin.) Parodi. Secc. Digitaria integrada por, D. horizontalis Willd., nueva para el pas, D. sanguinalis (L.) Scopoli, D. adscendens (H.B.K.) Henr., nueva para el pas y D. decumbens Stent (cultivada). This paper deals with the taxonomic studies of the Argentine species of the genus Digitaria Heister ex Haller (Gramineae), subgenus Digitaria, besides some related species which thrive in the neighbouring countries. Henrard (1950) has established 32 sections for this subgenus, 11 of which are found in Argentina. Some section have been adapted to Argentinian species. 5 sections are recognized for Argentina. 23 species and 6 varieties have been studied and they are ordered in the following way. Sect. Trichachne (Nees) Henr.: D. laxa (Reich.) Parodi, D. insularis (L.) Mez, D. sacchariflora (Raddi) Henr., D. californica (Benth.) Henr., with var. villosissima Henr. and D. swalleniana Henr. Sect. Phaeotrichae nov. sect.: D. enodis (Hack.) Parodi (Uruguay), D. chacoensis (Parodi) Henr., D. phaeotrix (Trin.) Parodi, with var. adusta (Nees) Rgolo, var. hackelii (Arech.) Henr., var. saltensis (Henr.) nov. comb. (Uruguay) and D. leiantha (Hackel) Parodi. Sect. Ternatae Hackel: D. ternata (Rich.) Stapf, D. filiformis (L.) Koel, D. ischaemum (Schr.) Schreber (Chile), D. balansae Henr., D. violascens Link, D. singularis Mez, new for Argentina, D. lehmanniana Henr. (Bolivia and Per), and D. lehmanniana var. dasyantha Rgolo. Sect. Aequiglumae Henr., D. eriostachya Mez, D. aequiglumis (Hack. et Arech.) Parodi, with var. laetevirens (Mez) Henr. and D. cuyabensis (Trint.) Parodi. Sect. Digitaria: D. horizontalis Will., new to Argentina, D. sanguinalis (L.) Scopoli, D. adscendens (H.B.K.) Henr., new to Argentina and D. decumbens Stent. (cultivated).
23215061|The phenomena which occur during anthesis of Victoria cruziana are being described. The variation of the temperature of the flowers has been represented in a graph and the position of the osmophores indicated. The effect of the light on the opening of the flowers is being discussed, as well as the possible causes for the absence of pollinators and for the autogamy which normally occurs in the habitat studied.
23227935|Habranthus neumannii, a new species found in grasslands of northwestern Argentina, is described and illustrated. The new species resembles in size Habranthus salinarum, but it can be easily distinguished by its dark green leaves, pinkish-white narrow tepals with a yellowish-brown base, by the perigonium narrowly funnelform, and the shorter style. A key to identify the species of Habranthus from Jujuy province is provided. Se describe e ilustra H. neumannii, una nueva especie de Habranthus que habita pastizales en el noroeste de Argentina. Esta nueva especie recuerda en tamao a Habranthus salinarum, pero puede ser fcilmente distinguible por sus hojas verde oscuro, flores blanco-rosadas con la base amarillo-amarronada, por el perigonio angostamente infundibuliforme y el estilo ms corto. Se incluye una clave para identificar las especies del gnero que habitan la provincia de Jujuy.
23215665|In this paper the species of Oxalis of the Argentine Mesopotamia are critically treated, in view of a future contribution to the "Flora Ilustrada de Entre Ros". Eighteen species are distinguished by a key, briefly described with their synonymy, distribution and citation of herbarium material. A new variety: Oxalis sellowiana Zucc. var. alba nov. var. is proposed. Species new for the area are: O. lindneri Knuth, O. pes-caprae L., and O. glaucifolia Knuth. O. perdicaria (Mol.) Bert., is recognised as the valid name for a species currently called O. mallobolba Cav. or O. lobata Sims.
23215600|The ocurrence of Phlegethontius sexa paphus (Cramer) as a pollinator of Mirabilis jalapa L. is registered. The chemical composition of nectar, localization of osmophore and the anatomical and morphological description of the nectary are given.
23218127|The genus Senecio (Compositae) in Bolivia. Senecio is one of the richest genera of Angiosperms in the world, specially in the mountainous regions. In this work 114 species are reported for Bolivia, this number may probably increase as the botanical exploration of its territory improves. As in previous papers by the author the genus has been treated following a conservative concept. Three sections are accepted for Bolivia; Aetheolaena (Cass.) Hoffm., Streptothamni Greenm. and Senecio, the last one containing ten Series (treated in previous works as Sections). The Sect. Aetheolaena is represented by three species and Sect. Streptothamni by 18. The series included in the Sect. Senecio have the following numbers of species: Senecio (1); Wernerioides Cabr. (1); Hualtatini DC. (2); Culcitium (H.B.K.) Cuatr. (6); Crassicephali Cabr. (6); Myriocephali (Cabr.) Cabr. (18); Otopteri Cabr. (7); Corymbosi Cabr. (29); Graveolentes Cabr. (2); and Suffruticosi Cabr. (21). The following are new taxa or new combinations: Senecio comosus var. culcitioides (Sch. Bip.) nov. stat.; S. zongoensis nov. sp.; S. pampeanus f. serratus nov. form.; S. alniphilus nov. sp. and S. clivicolus var. pampae (Lingelsh.) nov. stat.
23223888|The aim of this work was to study the growth form of Leptochloa chloridiformis (Hack.) Parodi. In this perennial species branching occurs mainly from the axillar buds of the innovation zone. This branching system generates a caespitose plant, in which the connections between structural units are short rhizomes. According to their positions, these connections present different tendencies in relation to the structural disarticulation. In some plants branching in the long internodes zone may occur due to environmental changes. El objetivo de este trabajo fue analizar la forma de crecimiento de Leptochloa chloridiformis (Hack.) Parodi. En esta especie perenne la ramificacin ocurre principalmente a travs de yemas axilares presentes en la zona de innovacin. Este sistema de ramificacin genera una planta cespitosa, en la cual las conexiones entre unidades estructurales son rizomas cortos. Dependiendo de su posicin estas conexiones muestran diferentes tendencias en relacin a la desarticulacin estructural. En algunas plantas se observ ramificacin en la zona de entrenudos largos posiblemente debido a cambios ambientales relacionados con las distintas estaciones.
darwiniana.3.2.208|
               
23215733|New or interesting Compositae from NE. Argentina. Eupatorium schininii is a new species from Misiones. Eupatorium purpurascens Sch. Bip., E. radula Chod., Verbesina sordescens DC. and Perezia squarrosa (Vahl) Less. are new species for the Flora of Argentina. Stevia lundiana DC. and Senecio burchellii DC., are new for the Flora of Entre Rios, and Perezia sonchifolia Bak. extends its area to the NE. of Argentina.
23213827|En un trabajo previo sobre biodermas algales (en prensa, cfr. Bibl.) y su papel en la consolidacin de los agregados del suelo, se identificaron 32 especies de Cyanophyceae, de las cuales 5 representan citas nuevas para la Argentina. Se describen e ilustran estos nuevos taxones: Microcoleus cavanillesii Gonzlez-Guerrero; Microcoleus paludosus var. acuminatus Gardner; Porphyrosiphon notarisii (Meneghini) Ktzing; Schizothrix stricklandii Drouet y Scytonema guyanense (Montagne) Bornet et Flahault. Se agregan referencias ecolgicas y distribucin geogrfica correspondiente. Algunas de estas nuevas especies, como Porphyrosiphon notarisii y Scytonema guyanense,  predominantes en diversos biotopos ubicados en zonas desprovistas de macrovegetacin y con un rgimen pobre de precipitaciones , desempean junto con otras algas azules un papel importante como defensa contra la erosin. En efecto, sus filamentos forman sobre la superficie del substrato una verdadera red, entre cuyas mallas son retenidos y aglutinados los grnulos del suelo. In a previous paper about continental and marine "biodermas" or algal-crusts, thirty-two species of Cyanophyceae were identified. Of these, the following five taxons are new records for Argentine: Microcoleus cavanillesii Gonzlez-Guerrero; Microcoleus paludosus var. acuminatus Gardner; Porphyrosiphon notarisii (Meneghini) Ktzing; Schizothrix stricklandii Drouet and Scytonema guyanense (Montagne) Bornet et Flahault. They are described and illustrated. Ecological references and geographical distribution are given. Of these species, Porphyrosiphon notarisii and Scytonema guyanense together with other blue-green algae, are very important in supporting and binding soil particles into a resistent-erosion surface layer.
23211919|The author makes a preliminary study of the Chilean species of the Genus Tropaeolum, based principally on morphological characters. The disposition of the genus differs notably from Reiche's "Flora de Chile" (1896), while most of the species remain the same. Among the novelties is the emendated name T. chilense Bert. ex Colla, a new name for T. tenuirostre, which Reiche sinonymized with T. tricolor, and T. rhomboideum Lemaire, emend. Sparre, earlier placed as a variety of T. tenuirostre by Buchenau, and kept as a "species dudosa" by Reiche. The T. polyphyllum-complex is entirely renewed, introducing several new species, earlier described as varieties, viz. T. incisum, T. myriophyllum and T. gracile. In the same group, T. looseri from Coquimbo, is described as new. The new disposition of the complex is based on the author's opinion that the specific limits within the family have to be drawn very closely, partly for geographical-genetical reasons (which have to be studied in the future), partly for practical-nomenclatorial reasons. Together with the present study are announced two others: 1. "Tropaeolaceae ARgentinenses" (Sparre, manuscr. I), and 2. "A preliminary Report on the Taxonomy of the Genus Tropaeolum" (Sparre, manuscr. II), where further communications are given on the morphology and literature of the family. Most of these are cited in the present article only as citations from the other two manuscripts. The three articles are the first of a proposed series: "Preliminary Studies toward a Monograph on the Tropaeolum Family".
darwiniana.2.1.125|This paper presents the archaeobotanical assemblage analysis carried out at two burial contexts from Western Tinogasta (Catamarca, Argentina). Las Champas and Beb de La Troya sites show botanical macro remains that allow inquiring into the role of these vegetables in funerary practices and its implications within societies of Catamarca during the late period. Our aims are to characterize social practices involved in the presence of plant remains as grave goods, identifying cooking processing on these remains, trying in this way to go beyond the taxonomic identification. In both archaeological sites, plant macroremains and soil samples were analyzed with naked eye, stereo-binocular microscope, and transmitted light microscope. Archaeological plant samples were taxonomically identified based on diagnostic characters and post-harvest processing practices were detected following ethnoarchaeological features. At Las Champas site
23216484|This contribution reports the results of a 16 months study of a burned grassland. Changes in species composition and in the dynamics of various aboveground compartments, net aerial primary productivity, plant mortality, rates of litter fall, and dissapearance of dead material are given. The study site was located in Sierra de la Ventana (38 6 Lat. S, 61 56 Long. WG) which is elevated several hundred meters above the Pampas of Argentina. The environmental setting of the grassland as well as the meteorological conditions before and after the fire are also discussed. In the first year after the fire plant diversity increased, the biomass of certain successional and exotic dicots also increased and the pathways of dead organic flux to the ground changed from a sequence of live  standing dead  litter to live  litter. However, with the reestablishment of climax species plant diversity decreased, successional and exotic dicots decreased in importance, dead organic matter accumulate and the pathway organic flux returned to the pattern that was characteristic before the fire.
23216465|Series Pachycarpae of the genus Cassia is represented in Argentina by four species that grow in different phytogeographic provinces, from the northern part of the country down to Patagonia. Descriptions of the species and one new variety are given, as well as keys for their identification. The morphological study of the seeds and a key for the identification of the species by its means are given separately as a complement of the systematic treatment.
23612306|Schinopsis lorentzii and S. marginata are closely related species that have been mainly differentiated by the shape, apex and color of the folioles, and also by their physiographical and altitudinal distribution. Nevertheless, these characters are intermediate and confusing between both species. In order to evaluate whether S. lorentzii and S. marginata can be differentiated on a morphological basis, the relationships among 89 specimens of both species were studied. A matrix of 29 morphological characters was analyzed by clustering and ordination methods. Both the dendrogram and the distribution of specimens in the Principal Components Analysis suggest that the limit between both species is not clear and none of the morphological characters are useful to differentiate them. We conclude that the morphological variations are related to altitudinal gradients and, consequently, S. marginata is placed under the synonymy of S. lorentzii (syn. nov.). The species is described and illustrated. A lectotype for Loxopterigium lorentzii is designated. Schinopsis lorentzii y S. marginata son especies muy afines que han sido diferenciadas principalmente por la forma, pice y el color de los fololos, y tambin por su distribucin fisiogrfica y altitudinal. Sin embargo, estos caracteres resultan intermedios y confusos entre ambas especies. Con el objetivo de evaluar si ambos taxones pueden ser diferenciados a partir de caracteres morfolgicos, se estudiaron las relaciones entre 89 ejemplares de ambas especies. Se analiz una matriz de 29 caracteres morfolgicos por mtodos de agrupamiento y ordenacin. Tanto el dendrograma como la distribucin de los ejemplares en el anlisis de componentes principales sugieren que no existe un lmite preciso entre ambos taxones y ninguno de los caracteres morfolgicos son tiles para diferenciarlos. Concluimos que las variaciones morfolgicas estn vinculadas al gradiente altitudinal, por lo que se incluye a S. marginata bajo la sinonimia de S. lorentzii (syn. nov.). Se describe e ilustra la especie. Se designa lectotipo para Loxopterigium lorentzii.
23222515|Observations on the caulinar histology in Dioscorea multiflora (Dioscoreaceae). Dioscorea multiflora Griseb. is a shrubby dioecious vine with vigorous multiannual monopodial shoots. A SEM and optic microscopic study on certain aspects of the caulinar histology and the cellular composition of the xylem is presented. Epidermal glandular trichomes, actinocytic stomata and endodermis in the form of a cristalliferous sheath, are the most important anatomical characters in the cortex. Note-worthy cellular elements in the vascular system are: long and wide metaxylematic vessels, with simple circular pits, scalariform-reticulate perforation plates with 24-64 bars and lignified tertiary helical wall sculpture - cited for the first time in Dioscorea - vasicentric tracheids in axial series around the vessels, with thickening bands interconnected by strands or second order framework; fiber-tracheids in the intervessel tissue and libriform fibers, commonly septate, in the nodal sourroundings. At the nodes, xylem glomeruli consist of tracheary tortuous elements: the vessels are composed of whether simple or irregular, dichotomized branched and anastomosed elements, with terminal or intercalary simple perforation plates; also multiperforated, foraminate plates occur. Nevertheless the bulk of the tissue is formed by irregularly interwoven tracheids with circular bordered pits located in the tracheid walls outside an inner reticulate layer, with the inner circular pit aperture between the bars of this reticulum. Also are present immature tracheid elements in cellular series, with the characteristically lignified walls of biphasic deposition. The present data on the structure of certain xylem elements might suggest a phylogenetical relation with ferns. A functional interpretation of several sylem features could be performed: starch rich parenchyma of the medullary rays, parenchyma distribution in the sourroundings of tracheid-sheathed vessels (mechanical flexibility), unusually wide vessels (efficiency), vascular and vasicentric tracheids (safety), helical sculpture in vessels (mechanic support) and phloem disposition in separated strands (tissue regeneration); all of them suggest similar functional features already reviewed in woody dicotyledoneous vines and lianas. The caulinar histology of Dioscorea, clasically referred as unique in monocotyledons, could be interpreted as an adaptative shift related to the biological form.
23217326|Algae from continental waters of Argentina V.: Entre Ros I. Ninety-eight taxa of algae were identified from 7 freshwater samples collected in Entre Ros (Argentina) in October 1982. Of those 7 are new taxa: Cosmarium bimamillatum f. ornata nov. f., Euastrum crassangulatum var. biondulatum nov. var., Quadricoccus ellipticus f. major nov. f. (Chlorophyceae); Characiopsis lacostei nov. sp., Ch. obovoidea f. epizoica nov. f., Isthmochloron variabilis nov. sp. (Xanthophyceae) and Chrysosphaera melosirae var. ovoidea nov. var. (Chrysophyceae). Thirty are new records for Argentina and 55 new records for Entre Ros.
23213858|The author presents a synopsis of the large Leguminous genus Adesmia and discusses its systematic position, accepting for it the tribe Adesmieae (Benth.) Hutchinson. The number of accepted species is about 228. A taxonomic history of the genus is presented with particular emphasis on the former attempts to subdivide it. Then the geographic distribution of Aaesmia as a Southamerican extratropical, very natural, group, is considered as a whole (distribution map, Fig. 1). The center of polymorphism is the Chilean-Argentine Cordillera, but the whole area ranges from Peru and South Brazil to Tierra del Fuego. In the following chapter phylogenetic ideas are exposed with the aim of explaining the development of the numerous species groups. After a brief characterization of the genus, its species are grouped into two subgenera and fortyfive series with a key for their identification. This key intends to give a clue for the understanding of the whole genus. Then follow the diagnoses of each series, the fixation of their types and a critical list of the species (with their synonvms in parentheses) pertaining to every series. The number of species per series varies between one and thirty eight ( 42, Microphyllae), this last series comprises spiny shrubs and has not yet been monographed. A list of dubious or excluded species, a bibliography, some illustrations and an alphabetical index conplete the paper. In most series references to earlier works are given, particularly to the contributions I-VI of the author (Lilloa and Darwiniana, 1949-1966), in which detailed descriptions and illustrations on 74 species of this genus are to be seen. Further papers of this kind are announced. The novelties described in the present synopsis are: A. ciliata Vog. var. graminetorum nov. var. (pbg. 507, fig. 3). A. calycicomosa n. sp. (pg. 533). A. boelckeana n. sp. (pg. 542. fig. 6). A. microcalyx Phil. var. calvescens nov. var. (pg. 539). A. littoralis n. sp. (pg. 548).
23218066|The development of the pericarp, in particular the exocarp of two species of Rhynchospora, R. corymbosa (L.) Britton and R. scutellata Gris, was studied, in order to investigate the origin of the silica bodies and its relation with the interposed wall between them and the outer periclinal epidermal wall. The silica body, made up of a platform and a cone arises as a thickening on the inner periclinal wall growing centripetally into the cell. Later on, it is isolated from the protoplast by an intracellular, transverse septum, which is not originated by mitosis and could be confused with the inner periclinal cell wall. The septum contains cellulose, lignin, cutin and silica. In this way the exocarp becomes secondarily bistratified and therefore results in an outer layer with tannin compounds (which is not the true epidermis) and an inner layer with silica bodies. Atypical silica deposits form dendriform bodies and prismatic rods, filling the lumen of sclereids of mesocarp and cellulosic fusiform cells of endocarp, respectively. Scanning electron micrographs of achenes are given. Different stages of development of the pericarp studied with the light microscope are illustrated.
23224223|A taxonomic revision of the genus Hypseocharis in Argentina is presented. Two species are considered: Hypseocharis tridentata and H. pimpinellifolia. H. corydalifolia is considered a synonym of H. pimpinellifolia. Flowers and fruits of H. tridentata are described for the first time. This species has a whorl of 5 alternate stamens and a schizocarpic fruit breaking away as five dehiscent mericarps with 1-few seeds per locule. These characters differ substantially from the original description of the genus, which indicated 15 stamens in two whorls and a capsule with loculicidal dehiscence containing many seeds. H. pimpinellifolia has a wide distribution in cloud grasslands, high Andean grasslands and Puna environments between 2000 and 4200 m in Jujuy, Salta, Tucumn, Catamarca and La Rioja provinces. H. tridentata is a relatively rare species, restricted to a narrow belt of cloud grasslands above the Andean alder forest between 2500 and 3200 m in Jujuy, Salta and Tucumn provinces. Se presenta una revisin del gnero Hypseocharis en la Argentina. Se consideran dos especies: H. tridentata y H. pimpinellifolia. H. corydalifolia es considerado sinnimo de H. pimpinellifolia. La flor y el fruto de H. tridentata son descriptos por primera vez. Esta especie posee un ciclo de 5 estambres alternos y un fruto esquizocrpico que se separa en 5 mericarpos dehiscentes con 1 a pocas semillas por lculo. Estos caracteres difieren sustancialmente de la descripcin original del gnero, que indicaba 15 estambres en dos ciclos y una cpsula loculicida conteniendo numerosas semillas. H. pimpinellifolia tiene una amplia distribucin en pastizales de neblina, praderas altoandinas y ambientes de Prepuna y Puna entre 2000 y 4200 m en las provincias de Jujuy, Salta, Tucumn, Catamarca y La Rioja. H. tridentata es una especie relativamente rara, restringida a una estrecha franja de pastizales de neblina por encima de los bosques de aliso entre 2500 y 3200 m en las provincias de Jujuy, Salta y Tucumn.
23213798|Las bases foliares en varias especies del gnero Adesmia se desarrollan en filopodios persistentes y a veces endurecidos. En la Serie Capitellatae estos filopodios se prolongan a considerable distancia del nudo y estn vascularizados por 3 haces fundamentales, caractersticos de muchos gneros de Papilionoideas. El lmite de estas bases de la hoja est marcado externamente por una articulacin donde se produce la fusin vascular y aparicin de 5 haces, punto que indica el comienzo del pecoloraquis. De este modo se puede distinguir un filopodio, un pseudopecolo o prolongacin del filopodio y un pecolo. En algunas especies arbustivas de hojas caducas de la Serie Microphyllae, se observ la presencia, en la base de los pecolos, de pulvinos que en estos casos estn poco desarrollados. La zona de absicin de la hoja se produce por debajo de estos pulvinos, de modo que los pecolos caen junto con ellos. In some species of Adesmia there is a development of the leafbases into persistent and sometimes hard structures called "hypopodium". In species of the series Capitellatae this hypopodium is prolongued to a considerable distance from the node and it is vascularized by 3 main bundles, as in many genera of the Papilionoideae. An articulation delimits externally the leafbase-petiole zone, where the vascular anastomosis occurs. Above this point 5 bundles appear instead of 3, indicating the beginning of the petiolerachis of the plant. In this way it is possible to distinguish a hypopodium, its prolongation in a pseudopetiole and a petiole. Some shrubby species with non-persistent leaves of the series Microphyllae present, at the petiole base, a zone resembling a pulvinus, which is not well developed in these species of Adesmia. The abscission zone of the leaf occurs below the pulvinus and the petiole falls with it.
23217329|Propagation and dispersion of Tripogandra diuretica (Commelinaceae) in the Paran Delta - River Plate region. Tripogandra diuretica (C. Martius) Handlos, is a penennial herb with rooting decumbent stems. It is known from Central and Southern Brazil, Paraguay, Bolivia, Argentina and Uruguay, thriving generally in wet or swampy soils near rivers and streams. In Argentina it reaches the Marginal Forest of Punta Lara near La Plata city. In the region under study its propagation is only vegetative, through pieces of stem that root easily at the nodes. The species is autogamous, but the developing fruits never reach maturity, falling precociously from the plant. Near the tropics it begins to flower in Summer (December), but the flowering period near Buenos Aires is in Autumn (end of March to June). The shorter photoperiod and lower temperature of this season, may be the cause of the premature abscission of the fruits. Its dispersion to this southern area was perhaps possible by cuttings carried by the periodic swelling of the Paran and Uruguay Rivers.
23215067|The Southamerican and Newzealand species of Tylimanthus and Marsupidium are considered to belong to the same genus as a result of the study of their morphological characteres. Two new species are described and illustrated, T. kunkelii Hssel et Solari, T. renifolius Hssel et Solari and four new combination are made, T. flavicans (Engel et Gro.) Hssel et Solari, T. urvilleanus (Mont.) Hssel et Solari, T. knightii (Mitt.) Hssel et Solari, T. abbreviatus (Tayl.) Hssel et Solari.
23211584|1. Se ha estudiado la reaccin fotoperidica de Chenopodium Quinoa Willd., que se comporta como una planta de  da corto . Esta reaccin es modificada por las temperaturas y el nmero de fotoperodos inductivos; a medida que aumentan los das cortos y se elevan las temperaturas a que son sometidas las plantas, se acorta el tiempo transcurrido a contar desde el comienzo del tratamiento hasta la antesis. 2. Se ha determinado un segundo perodo sensible a la longitud del da en plantas ya florecidas, que requiere fotoperodos cortos para que desarrollen los frutos. Sus efectos se ejercen sobre la cigota y posiblemente sobre el gametfito femenino. 3. A diferencia de la induccin fotoperidica en el concepto de Garner y Allard, la accin de este segundo perodo no se ejerce sobre las hojas sino directamente sobre las flores, donde se localiza sin transmitirse a otras flores. 1. The photoperiodic reaction is studied of Quenopodium Quinoa, which behaves as a  short day  plant. This reaction is modified by temperature and the number of photoperiodic inductives. As short days increase, and the temperature to which the plants are submited rises, the time from the begining of the treatment to the anthesis becomes shorter. 2. A second period of sensibility to the length of day, which requires short photoperiods for the development of fruits, has been determined in plant already in blossom. It's effects are exercised on the zygote and posibly on the female gametofite. 3. In disimilarity to photoperiodic induction, according to Garner and Allard, the effect of this second period is not exercised on the leaves, but directly on the flowers, where it becomes localized without transmiting itself to other flowers.
23223226|This paper deals with a taxonomic revision of the South American species of the genus Piptochaetium. This systematic treatment includes a discussion of the morphological and anatomical characteristics of the genus, together with a key to identify the species treated in 2 sections: Podopogon (Raf.) Parodi (13 species) and Piptochaetium (14 species, 2 subspecies and 2 varieties). For each species, a description, synonymy, geographical distribution, illustrations and photographs of the characters with taxonomical value are given. Some species, varieties or forms have been reduced to synonymy: P. panicoides f. subpapillosum, P. grisebachi, P. stipoides var. chaetophorum, P. stipoides var. parviflorum, P. stipoides var. purpurascens, P. stipoides var. verruculosum and P. uruguense var. microcarpum.
23213090|Es werden zwei fr die Wissenschaft neue Solanum-Arten aus der Sektion Tuberarium: Solanum diemii Brcher und Solanum sanmartiniense Brcher beschrieben, welche der Verfasser im Sommer 1957 in dem Gebiet der sdargentinischen Seen (Prov. Neuqun) sammelte. Da die Fundorte in geographischer Nhe eines angeblichen "chilenischen Gen-Zentrums" und "Ursprungs-gebiet der Kulturkartoffel" liegen, verdienen diese beiden Wildkartoffel-Arten eine gewisse Beachtung. Die meisten dort vorkommenden Vertreter der Sektion Tuberarium gehren der botanischen Serie Etuberosa an und bilden keine Knollen aus. Es werden die mglichen phylogenetischen Beziehungen zu Solanum tuberosum geprft und taxonomische Vergleiche zu Solanum maglia gezogen. Es erscheint unwahrscheinlich, dass Solanum diemii oder Solanum sanmartiniense an der Entwicklung der tetraploiden Kulturkartoffeln in Sdamerika beteiligt waren.
23216543|A taxonomic revision of the Argentine and neighbouring countries of the genus Erianthus has been made. Five species has been founded: E. asper Nees with var. asper and brasilianus (Trin.) Hackel, E. angustifolius Nees, E. balansae Hackel, E. giganteus (Walt.) Muhl. and E. trinii (Hack.) Hackel. The varieties glabrinodis and villosus of the later were excluded. A key for the identification of species and varieties is given. All species have been illustrated. Anatomical characters for the genus Erianthus are given. Chromosome counts for E. trinii (Hack.) Hackel and E. balansae Hackel are reported for the first time.
23223857|Extranuptial nectaries are found in almost all flowers of the studied species, and always on the calyx. Their shape varies from patelliform to cupuliform. Considering their anatomy, three groups of cells are distinguished: (i) a secretory stratum of cylindrical, elongated cells, resting upon (ii) a layer or a single basal cell, and (iii) a reduced group of subepidermic cells. Based upon these characteristics, the terms simple and complex are proposed to describe extranuptial nectaries with one or with many basal cells respectively. This anatomic nectary feature is maintained within the level of species, thus becoming a significant specific character. The two types of extranuptial nectaries can be found within a genus, constituting an important character to differentiate similar species. Se hallaron nectarios extranupciales en casi todas las flores de las especies estudiadas y siempre en el cliz. Sus formas variaron de pateliformes a cupuliformes. Teniendo en cuenta su anatoma se distinguen tres grupos de clulas: (i) un estrato secretor de clulas cilndricas y alargadas que se disponen sobre (ii) una capa de clulas basales o una nica clula basal y (iii) un grupo reducido de clulas subepidrmicas. Basndose en estas caractersticas se propone la denominacin simple y complejo para describir los nectarios extranupciales con una o muchas clulas basales respectivamente. Esta caracterstica anatmica se mantiene a nivel especfico, constituyendo un carcter descriptivo importante. Los dos tipos de nectario extranupcial pueden encontrarse en un mismo gnero, resultando un carcter que permite diferenciar especies similares.
23218137|Ficus luschnathiana, the correct name for Ficus monckii. After the revision of type material the author found that Ficus monckii and F. enormis are different species, and that F. luschnathiana is the correct name for the former.
23223001|The second contribution to the knowledge of the diatom flora from La Pampa Province (Argentina) is here presented. From 7 samples analyzed, 143 taxa were identified, 19 of which are new records for Argentina and 73 are new records for La Pampa. The taxonomy of several species is discussed.
23222526|Tuber protein electrophoresis in wild tuberous Solanum species. Investigations on soluble proteins by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of tuber extracts were carried out with the wild species Solanum vidaurrei Crdenas (2n = 2x = 24), S. infundibuliforme Philippi (2n = 2x = 24), S. incamayoense Okada & Clausen (2n = 2x = 24), S. gourlayi Hawkes subspecies gourlayi (2n = 2x = 24) and (2n = 4x = 48) and S. gourlayi subspecies saltense Clausen & Okada (2n = 2x = 24). Species relationships were determined by cluster analysis. Although protein variations were encountered within and between species, tuber protein profiles were useful to determine phenetic relationships among the taxa studied in the present work. There is congruence between the present data and results obtained in previous morphological research.
23215713|The new genus Acaulimalva from the Andes of South America, is described and illustrated. The genus is apparently related to Malvastrum, in which it was usually treated as section Acaule Hill. In Malvastrum there is a clear polyploid series with x = 6, but the 10 somatic chromosomes found in Acaulimalva nubigena show a closer relationship with Tarasa, Urocarpidium and Nototriche, all of them with x = 5. Nineteen valid species are recognized in Acaulimalva; 3 are new to science: A. hillii, A. steinbachii and A. sulphurea, and 16 are new combinations: A. acaulis (Cav.), A. alismatifolia (K. Schum, et Hieron.), A. betonicaefolia (Hill), A. crenata (Hill), A. dryadifolia (Solms), A. engleriana (Ulbr.), A. nubigena (Walp.), A. oriastrum (Wedd.), A. parnassiaefolia (Hook.), A. rhizantha (A. Gray), A. richii (A. Gray), A. stuebelii (Hieron.) and A. weberbaueri (Ulbr.).
23212987|The geographical origin of the type specimen of Lepidium spicatum is discussed and thought to be most probably the region of Buenos Aires. Lepidium pseudo-didymus Thell. is the proper name for what has been known as Senebiera australis Hook. f. or Lepidium inclusum O.E. Schulz. New for Argentina are Lepidium myrianthum Phil.  not a synonym of Lepidum ruderale L.  and Lepidium perfoliatum L. From the mountains of the south of the province of Buenos Aires, Lepidium tandilense is described as a new species.
23215672|In this article the life cycle of a brown alga, Lessonia fuscescens Bory, is described. It was investigated in Patagonia with "in vitro" cultures. Information is given on its development, which has the same characteristics as the Order Laminariales. Many details about the zooids, the male and female gametophytes and the young sporophyte, are being analysed.
23215714|En este trabajo se presenta el anlisis palinolgico de casi la totalidad de especies de Malvastrum y Acaulimalva (Malvaceae). Acaulimalva, gnero propuesto por Krapovickas (Darwiniana, 19:10. 1974), abarca las especies acaules hasta ahora incluidas en el gnero Malvastrum. El estudio de la morfolog del polen permiti establecer esquemas de variacin distintos para ambos gneros. En Acaulimalva el dimetro de los granos de polen, el nmero de aberturas y su posicin en la superficie del grano es bastante uniforme en todas las especies, de modo que no es posible identificarlas en base a la morfologa del polen. En Malvastrum en cambio, dichos caracteres palinolgicos presentan tal variacin, que es posible separar las especies en grupos perfectamente distinguibles. En este gnero hay especies con granos de 4 a 10 aberturas, que son semejantes a los de Acaulimalva. No obstante es posible distinguirlos, ya que en Malvastrum las bculas son siempre mucho ms gruesas y la base de las espinas es siempre de mayor dimetro que en los granos de Acaulimalva. In this paper we present the pollen analysis of almost the whole of Malvastrum and Acaulimalva species (Malvaceae). Acaulimalva, a genus proposed by Krapovickas (Darwiniana, 19:10. 1974), comprises the acaulescent species included up to now in the genus Malvastrum. The study of the pollen morphology allowed to establish schemes of variation which are different for both genera. In Acaulimalva the diameter of the pollen grains, the number of apertures and their position on the surface of the grain is rather uniform in all species, thus it is not possible to identify them based on the pollen morphology. On the contrary, in Malvastrum these polynological characters show such variation that it is possible to separate the species in groups quite distinctible. In this genus there are species with grains of 4 to 10 apertures, which are similar to those of Acaulimalva. Nevertheless it is possible to distinguish them because in Malvastrum the bacules are always much thicker and the base of the spines is always of larger diameter than in those of Acaulimalva grains.
23216509|This paper deals with the leaf anatomical characters (including the epidermal ones) of the species of Ichnanthus (Gramineae) inhabiting the Argentine Republic. The species and varieties studied are the following: Ichnanthus inconstans, I. procurrens, I. minarum, I. pallens var. pallens, I. pallens var. majus, I. ruprechtii, I. nemorosus, I. tarijianus e I. tenuis. All of them are described and illustrated.
23218070|The systematic anatomical leaf characters of the Argentine species of the tribe Sophoreae (excluding Adesmia) have been studied. Several of these characters are important from the systematic point of view, e.g., presence of schizogenous secretory canals, glands, adaxial hypodermis, papillae and cells containing mucilage, which proved to be constant in some species. It was possible in this way to establish generic and specific differences. Other characters are common to all the genera of the tribe as the typical 3-cellular hairs, stomata commonly of the anomocytic type and crystals of prismatic or more frecuently of the macla type.
23225102|At a regional scale, changes in tree and herbaceous cover relative to topographic variation have been observed in the landscape of Chaco region. Nonetheless, structural and floristic variations associated with topography are quite unknown at local scale. This study surveys the forests of Santafesinian Humid Chaco with special concern to the variation of structure and floristic composition along the topographic gradient. Twenty transects of 150 m each were used to determine frequency, density and DBH of tree and bush species. In short, 21 tree, 19 young tree and 16 bush species were registered. The tree species belonged to 18 families and 30 genera, and the richest family was Fabaceae with 11 species. In forest where the low topographic sites were dominant, frequency of young and adult trees were high and low, respectively. In contrast, richness and diversity indexes did not show changes along the same gradient. Results are discused in relation to regional ecological knowledge of S. balansae forests. A nivel regional se ha observado que la fisonoma de la vegetacin y la proporcin de especies leosas y herbceas en el paisaje del Chaco son afectadas por la frecuencia de las inundaciones. Sin embargo, los cambios estructurales y florsticos asociados con la inundacin son casi desconocidos a escala local. Este estudio describe la heterogeneidad florstica y estructural de los bosques de S. balansae en el Chaco Hmedo Santafesino a lo largo de un gradiente de inundacin. Se emplearon 20 transecciones de 150 m en las que se cuantificaron las frecuencias, densidades y dimetros a la altura del pecho (DAP) de las especies arbreas, arbreas juveniles (DAP < 4 cm) y arbustivas presentes. En total, fueron registradas 21 especies de rboles, 19 de rboles juveniles y 16 de arbustos. Las especies arbreas correspondieron a un total de 30 gneros representados en 18 familias, entre las que se destac la de las Fabaceae con 11 integrantes. En bosques donde los sitios deprimidos eran dominantes, la frecuencia de rboles jvenes y adultos result, respectivamente, alta y baja. No obstante, los ndices de riqueza y diversidad no mostraron variaciones en el mismo gradiente. Sobre la base de los patrones observados se discute la significancia de los resultados en relacin con la informacin disponible sobre la ecologa de los bosques de S. balansae en la regin Chaquea.
23612307|A synopsis and nomenclatural revision of the Apocynaceae s. str. (Apocynoideae and Rauvolfioideae) from Chile is here presented. Lectotypes are designated for Echites heterophyllus, Echites ptarmicus, and Skytanthus acutus. A key, descriptions, geographical distribution data in Chile, and illustrations for the native species are included. Se presenta una sinopsis y revisin nomenclatural de los taxones de Apocynaceae s. str. (Apocynoideae y Rauvolfioideae) presentes en Chile. Se designan lectotipos para Echites heterophyllus, Echites ptarmicus y Skytanthus acutus. Se incluye una clave, descripciones, datos de distribucin geogrfica en Chile e ilustraciones para las especies nativas.
23215624|Ulva lactuca L., Ulva rigida C. Agardh and Ulva californica Wille are cited from Puerto Deseado (Sta. Cruz, Argentine). The morphological variation of these species is analized, zooids and germlings are illustrated.
23222975|This paper consists of a qualitative and quantitative study of scaled chrysophytes found in a peat bog of Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. Three taxa were identified: Mallomonas cyathellata var. chilensis Drrschmidt, M. striata Asmund and Synura sphagnicola (Korsh.) Korshikov; except for the last the others are new records for this kind of environment. Temperature and pH-range of these species are discussed.
23216503|This paper deals with a taxonomic revision of the genus Astragalus (Leguminosae-Galegae) of Patagonia, in which 24 species and 1 variety are recognized. Several novelties are noteworthy: A. bonariensis is considered as a new species, A. chamissonis is recorded for the first time in Argentina and the names A. ameghinoi, A. moyanoi and A. palenae var. grandiflora are reinstated. Special attention have been paid on the elaboration of the keys, based on vegetative and floral or fruit characters separately. Each species is described and ilustrated, phytogeographic, ecologic and phenologic data were added in each case.
23211951|El autor recibi en 1937 del doctor A. Donat una coleccin de ms de 100 especies de musgos del Parque Nacional Nahuel Huapi, que estudi en colaboracin con otro brilogo, I. Thriot. El manuscrito del trabajo resultante, terminado en 1944 y destinado al Repertorium de Fedde, se perdi totalmente con otros trabajos durante el final de la guerra. El trabajo actual es una reconstruccin a base de notas y determinaciones conservadas. Destaca el autor la afinidad de la flora briolgica del Nahuel Huapi con la del sur de Chile y calcula que aqulla debe consistir en por lo menos 400 Musgos y 200 Hepticas. La coleccin de Donat comprende las especies ms difundidas y caractersticas y algunas novedades de inters. Se da una lista de las especies estudiadas y las diagnosis latinas de 7 nuevas especies de Plagiochila, Lophocolea, Syntrichia, Grimmia, Rhacomitrium y Orthotrichum. Dos de las novedades estn acompaadas de figuras. En la lista de especies estn intercaladas las descripciones de algunas variedades y formas nuevas.A. B.
23218922|Studies in Dioscoreaceae V. Restoration of Dioscorea monadelpha and identification of Dioscorea subhastata. The combination Dioscorea monadelpha (Kunth) Griseb., has priority over D. monadelpha (Kunth) Pax, both are homeotypic homonyms; the epithet is restored for materials of southern Brazil. Besides, D. monadelphoides Macbr. remains as a superfluous epithet. Dioscorea monadelpha (Kunth) Pax var. opaca Hicken is reduced to the synonymy of D. cienagensis Knuth. Dioscorea subhastata Vell. Conc. is identified and D. guaranitica Chodat et Hassler and D. lagoasanta Kunth are considered synonyms.
23227930|The breeding system, fruit set, seed set, floral visitors and pollination of Cologania broussonetii were studied. Four pollination treatments were applied: autogamy, geitonogamy, xenogamy, and natural pollination (flowers exposed to pollinators). The frequency of visits was recorded, and pollen grains deposited per stigma on bagged (self pollen deposition) and exposed flowers were counted. The results indicate that this species is self-compatible and autogamus. A small number of low quality fruits and seeds (lowest mass and germination capability) were obtained by spontaneous self-pollination. When fruits obtained by natural pollination were analyzed, a specific pattern of seed formation was detected: ovules were successively fertilized from the apical to the basal portion of the ovary. However, no pattern was observed for seed abortion. The frequency of visits of possible pollinators (species of Bombus) was very low. The number of pollen grains per stigma was similar on bagged and exposed flowers. Nevertheless, the comparison of quantity and quality of fruits and seeds obtained by natural and autonomous self-pollination suggests that the visits of pollinators contribute to increase the quality of seeds (higher mass and germination capability). Se estudi el sistema reproductivo, la produccin natural de frutos y semillas, y el papel de los polinizadores en Cologania broussonetii. Se realizaron cuatro cruzamientos controlados: autopolinizacin espontnea, autopolinizacin manual, polinizacin cruzada y polinizacin natural (flores expuestas a los polinizadores). Se registr la frecuencia de visitas de los polinizadores y se cuantific el nmero de granos de polen depositados en el estigma de flores expuestas a los polinizadores y en flores aisladas (autodepsito de polen). Los resultados obtenidos indican que esta especie es autocompatible y autgama. Los frutos y semillas obtenidos por autopolinizacin espontnea fueron pocos y los de menor calidad (menor masa y germinabilidad). Al analizar los frutos producidos por polinizacin abierta se infiere que las semillas se forman siguiendo un patrn determinado: primero son fertilizados los vulos prximos al estigma y por ltimo los ms alejados. Sin embargo, no se encontr un patrn en el aborto de semillas dentro del fruto. La frecuencia de visita de los posibles polinizadores (especies de Bombus) fue muy baja. El nmero de granos de polen depositados en el estigma fue muy similar entre flores expuestas a los visitantes y aqullas aisladas. Sin embargo, al comparar la calidad y cantidad de frutos y semillas obtenidos por polinizacin abierta y por autopolinizacin se infiere que la visita de los polinizadores es importante para la produccin de semillas de mejor calidad (mayor masa y germinabilidad).
23226690|Lake Planetario is an urban recreational lake that suffered a Microcystis aeruginosa bloom in March 1999. At the same time the birds and fishes that inhabited the lake died, probably affected by microcystin, hepatotoxin that some strains of Miycrocyistis produce. The City of Buenos Aires requested Aguas Argentinas to restore the lake. Restoration tasks included treatment of sediments and pumping of water from a brackish aquifer. For one year, monthly samples were taken with a phytoplankton net, the qualitative and quantitative composition of the phytoplankton were studied, and physicochemical data were collected. The structure and composition of the phytoplankton were studied and revealed that due to the turbulence caused by the pumping of water, the Cyanophyta were controlled and phytoplankton diversity increased significantly. Chlorophyta dominated during spring, Cyanophyta during fall and Bacillariophyta during summer and winter. The change in conductivity provided a favourable environment for new taxa to colonize the lake, with representatives of taxa typical for brackish water. El lago del Planetario es un lago recreativo urbano localizado en la ciudad de Buenos Aires, Argentina. En marzo de 1999 se produjo una floracin de Microcystis aeruginosa. Al mismo tiempo los peces y aves que habitaban el lago murieron, probablemente afectados por microcystina, una hepatotoxina que producen algunas cepas de Microcystis. El Gobierno de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires encomend la restauracin del lago a Aguas Argentinas. Las tareas de restauracin incluyeron el tratamiento de los sedimentos y el bombeo de agua de una napa salobre. Durante un ao se tomaron muestras mensuaes con una red de fitoplancton, se estudi su composicin cuantitativa y cualitativa, y se tomaron medidas de factores fsicoqumicos. Debido a la turbulencia causada por el bombeo de agua, el crecimiento de las Cyanophyta fue controlado y la diversidad fitoplanctnica aument significativamente. Las Chlorophyta dominaron durante la primavera, las Cyanophyta durante el otoo y las Bacillariophyta en verano e invierno. El cambio en la conductividad provey condiciones favorables para que nuevos taxones, tpicos de ambientes salobres, colonizaran el lago.
23227992|Thirty-seven South American species representing seven sections of Solanum subgen. Leptostemonum were analyzed. Andromonoecious as well as hermaphrodite species were considered. The length and width of their fruits was measured, and the number of seeds per fruit was counted. Medial cross sections of fresh, ripe fruits were observed with a stereoscopic microscope and illustrated. Six placentation patterns and three types of seeds were described. A relationship among seed number, fruit size, fruit color and sexual system was detected by means of statistical analysis. These results suggest that andromonoecy affects fruit size and placentation patterns, in order to contain a higher number of seeds per fruit. Se analizaron 37 especies sudamericanas pertenecientes a siete secciones de Solanum subgen. Leptostemonum. Fueron consideradas tanto especies andromonoicas como hermafroditas. Se midi el ancho y el largo de sus frutos y se cont el nmero de semillas por fruto. Se estudiaron bajo lupa y se ilustraron cortes por la zona media de frutos frescos maduros. Se describieron seis patrones de placentacin y tres tipos de semillas. Mediante anlisis estadstico, se detect una relacin entre el nmero de semillas, el tamao del fruto, el color del fruto y el sistema sexual. Estos resultados sugieren que la andromonoecia afecta al tamao del fruto y su patrn de placentacin, para contener un mayor nmero de semillas.
23218935|Karyotypes and chromosomes meiotic behavior of Festuca pallescens (Poaceae). Chromosome counts were carried out in samples from 24 populations of Festuca pallescens (St.-Yves) L. Parodi and F. pallescens var. scabra (St.-Yves) L. Parodi. It was found 2n = 42 chromosomes. The karyotypes of both varieties are very similar, uniform and composed by metacentric chromosomes. Also secondary constrictions were observed in 6 out of 21 homomorphic pairs. The number of secondary constrictions almost coincided with that of nucleoli found in resting nuclei, where a maximum of 14 nucleoli was counted. Meiosis was regular and 21 bivalents were found in 97% of the pollen mother cells examined. Pairing at metaphase I and the chromosome arrangement in homomorphic pairs suggests that this species is an allohexaploid.
23213873|Two new species of Lycopodium are described for the NW of Argentina: L. sanctaebarbarae and L. sotae. Data on the geographic and altitudinal distribution and on affinities are given. Finally the author adds a key for the determination of all species of that genus which grow in the NW area of that country.
23218952|Embryological studies in Buddleja (Buddlejaceae). II: Embryogeny. The development of the embryo is studied in two species of Buddleja: B. stachyoides Cham, et Schldl. and B. tubiflora Benth. The main conclusions are: Embryogeny follows the Veronica Variation of the Onagrad type. According with the Souges System, the mode of development may be designated as belonging to the First Grand Division, Serie A, Megarchtype IV. This pattern is present in most of the Scrophulariaceae representatives. The hypothesis suggesting close affinities between Buddleja and some genera of Scrophulariaceae seems to be strengthened once more by the peculiarities of their embryogeny.
23217332|Karyological studies in Compositae III. Meiotic or mitotic chromosome numbers and observations were made in 14 taxa belonging to 6 different genera of Eupatorieae, Heliantheae and Senecioneae. The numbers include counts in 10 taxa that so far had never been investigated cytologically or had a previous count which is different from the one reported here. These are as follows: Eupatorium angustifolium (H.B.K.) Spr. (n = ca. 90), E. arbutifolium Benth. (n = 42), E. arnottianum Griseb. (n = 10 + ca. 7 IB), E. baccharoides H.B.K. (n = ca. 42), E. candolleanum Hook. et Arn. (n = 10), E. elegans H.B.K. (n = 43), E. tweedianum Hook. et Arn. (n = 10), Bidens exigua Sherff (2n = 24), Flourensia macroligulata Seeligmann (n = 18), Wedelia kerri N. E. Brown (n = 23) and Werneria pygmaea Gillies ex Hook. et Arn. (n = 50). B chromosomes were observed in two species of Eupatorium. E. arnottianum had up to 7 Bs, which were heteropycnotic at first metaphase (Fig. 1a) and showed difficulties in separating at first anaphase. Subsequently bridges and their remains were seen at the end of this stage (Fig. 1b). In E. hecatanthum (DC.) Baker there were 0-2 Bs in different cells of a single plant; these would form a bivalent in diakinesis (Fig. 2b) or be in single dose as univalents (Fig. 2a, c) or absent (Fig. 2d). These results indicate that the Bs are somatically unstable. The Colombian species Eupatorium arbutifolium (Fig. 3c) (n = 42), E. baccharoides (Fig. 1f) (n = ca. 42) and E. elegans (Fig. 1c) (n = 43) would have hyperoctoploid level if one assumes x = 10. The presence of B chromosomes in diploid species of Eupatorium (with n = 10) could have facilitated the process of increase of the chromosome number to hyperploid levels after translocation to the Bs of genetic material from A chromosomes. The number n = ca. 90 established for Eupatorium angustifolium (Fig. 3a) is by far the highest polyploid in the genus and one of the highest for the Compositae.
23612305|This work confirms the presence of Imperata tenuis in Argentina, and includes an illustration, reference material, a map showing its geographic distribution in southern South America, and a key to identify the species of Imperata that inhabit Argentina. En este trabajo se confirma la presencia de Imperata tenuis en Argentina. Se presenta una ilustracin, material de referencia y un mapa de su distribucin geogrfica en el sur de Sudamrica. Se incluye una clave para identificar las especies del gnero Imperata presentes en la Argentina.
23225109|The neotropical genus Liabum is reincorporated to Argentina (province of Salta) with the first record of L. acuminatum. This new record extends the distribution of the genus Liabum to 23 S. L. acuminatum is described and illustrated. In addition, a map of distribution of Liabum and L. acuminatum, and a key to differentiate the members of the tribe Liabeae of Argentina are provided. Se reincorpora el gnero neotropical Liabum a la flora argentina (provincia de Salta) con el primer registro de L. acuminatum para este pas. El nuevo registro extiende el lmite meridional de distribucin del gnero Liabum hasta los 23 S. L. acuminatum se describe e ilustra. Adems se provee un mapa de distribucin de Liabum y L. acuminatum, y una clave para diferenciar los miembros de la tribu Liabeae de Argentina.
23223258|Elymus hitchcocki Davidse and E. scabrifolius (Dll) J.H. Hunz. are regarded as species distantly related and not as conspecific as considered recently by several authors. A number of morphological, ecological, distributional and chromosomal differences, which were pointed out more than 30 years ago, are stressed. A new status and combination is proposed for the latter taxon.
darwiniana.2.1.68|
               
23223205|The Argentine species of Alstroemeria L. are studied and a brief nomenclatural history of the genera is given. The taxonomic treatment includes keys to species, descriptions, synonyms, illustrations, ecological observations and distribution maps. At present, 10 taxa are recognized and treated for Argentina: Alstroemeria andina Phil. subsp. venustula Ehr. Bayer, A. apertiflora Baker, A. aurea Graham, A. bakeri Pax, A. isabellana Herb., A. patagonica Phil., A. presliana Herb., A. pseudospathulata Ehr. Bayer, A. psittacina Lehm. and A. pygmaea Herb. The probable occurrence in our country of A. spathulata C. Presl and A. pallida Graham is pointed out. A. inodora Herb. is a new synonym of A. psittacina Lehm. A. bakeri and the name A. hassleriana are here lectotypified. Morphological data of taxonomical value are discussed. The most important interespecific differences are found in the floral characters. The presence or absence of resupination in the leaf, the plant height and the characteristics of the inflorescence are also of importance.
23227933|A Microcystis aeruginosa bloom occurred in the Planetario Lake (Parque Tres de Febrero, Ciudad Autnoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina) that led to the restoration of the lake. Before and after the restoration (since October 1999 to September 2000), samples were collected to assess changes in the phytoplankton structure. The genus Interfilum (Chlorococcales, Chlorophyta) was recorded in the samples for February and May 2000 for the first time in America. Furthermore, it is a new variety for science: I. paradoxum var regulare var. nov. El Lago del Planetario (Parque Tres de Febrero, Ciudad Autnoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina) sufri una floracin de Microcystis aeruginosa que condujo a un proceso de recuperacin. Se realiz el estudio del fitoplancton antes y despus del proceso de recuperacin, a lo largo de un ao (octubre 1999 a septiembre 2000). En las muestras de los meses de febrero y mayo de 2000 se registr por primera vez para Amrica la presencia de Interfilum (Chlorococcales, Chlorophyta). El taxn descripto es adems una nueva variedad para la ciencia: I. paradoxum var regulare var. nov.
