3696871| The red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta Buren, is an invasive pest from South America that currently occupies much of the south-eastern USA. Global warming is likely to allow range expansion of many invasive species, including S. invicta. We used a dynamic, ecophysiological model of fire ant colony growth coupled with models simulating climate change to predict the potential range expansion of S. invicta in the eastern USA over the next century. The climate change scenario predicted by the Vegetation-Ecosystem Modelling and Analysis Project (VEMAP) was used in our analyses. Our predictions indicate that the habitable area for S. invicta may increase by c. 5% over the next 40-50 years (a northward expansion of 33  35 km). As the pace of global warming is expected to quicken in the latter half of the century, however, the habitable area for S. invicta in 2100 is predicted to be > 21% greater than it currently is (a northward expansion of 133  68 km). Because the black imported fire ant, Solenopsis richteri Forel, occupies higher latitudes than S. invicta, the overall area of the eastern USA infested with invasive Solenopsis species could be greater than that estimated here. 
4124761|Introduced species have the potential to outperform natives in two primary ways: via increased rates of predation and competition, and via the introduction of new parasites against which native species often lack effective immune defences. To assess the extent to which invasive species' parasites spread to native hosts, we compared the composition of helminth parasites found in introduced black rat (Rattus rattus) and endemic deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) populations on a subset of the California Channel Islands. Results suggest that the whipworm, Trichuris muris, may have spread from introduced black rats to endemic island deer mice and has continued to thrive in one island population where rats were recently eradicated. These results yield two important conservation messages: (1) although the parasites introduced with invasive species may be few, they should not be ignored as they can spread to native species, and (2) introduced parasites have the potential to remain in a system even after their founding host is extirpated. These findings underscore the importance of parasitological surveys in invasive species research and baseline data for ecosystems where exotic species are likely to invade.
2673360|South Africa has an important responsibility to global biodiversity conservation, but a largely inadequate conservation area network for addressing this responsibility. This study employs a coarse-filter approach based on 68 potential vegetation units to identify areas that are largely transformed, degraded or impacted upon by road-effects. The assessment highlights broad vegetation types that face high biodiversity losses currently or in the near future due to human impacts. Most vegetation types contain large tracts of natural vegetation, with little degradation, transformation or impacts from road networks. Regions in the grasslands, fynbos and forest biomes are worst affected. Very few of the vegetation types are adequately protected according to the IUCN's 10% protected area conservation target, with the fynbos and savanna biomes containing a few vegetation types that do achieve this arbitrary goal. This investigation identifies areas where limited conservation resources should be concentrated by identifying vegetation types with high levels of anthropogenic land use threats and associated current and potential biodiversity loss.
20532094|Aim: Many wader populations around the world are declining as a consequence of habitat degradation or loss. It is therefore important to identify species-specific habitat demands accurately and to define the important factors explaining species distribution, in order to develop tools that can be used in conservation planning. The aim of this study is to create reliable, functional and ecologically interpretable predictive distribution models for five breeding wader species. Location: The archipelago of SW Finland in the Baltic Sea. Methods: We used multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) to create single-species and multiresponse distribution models based on 525 study islands and 12 abiotic and biotic environmental variables. Model evaluation was carried out on independent data not used in model building (100 + 116 islands). The models were tested for discrimination with receiver-operating characteristic statistics and for calibration with Millers calibration statistics (MCS). Results: The single-species models for the turnstone (Arenaria interpres), redshank (Tringa totanus) and oystercatcher (Haematopus ostralegus) showed good predictive abilities, regarding both discrimination and calibration, when evaluated on independent data. The multiresponse models for the less prevalent species, common sandpiper (Actitis hypoleucos) and the common ringed plover (Charadrius hiaticula) had better discriminative abilities than the single-species models. The most influential predictor overall was occurrence of small larids. Exposure, area of forest and low and flat areas were also important, as well as shore habitats. Main conclusions: We found that the ability of MARS to fit non-linear and multiresponse models makes it a useful method to quantitatively relate species occurrence to environmental characteristics of a complex environment.
2673387|Pinus sabiniana Dougl. (grey pine) forms savanna forests in the foothills surrounding California's Great Central Valley. However, its fossil record, which dates from the late Miocene through the Pliocene and Pleistocene, is found exclusively in southern California, south of the species' present range. A total of twenty-nine isozyme loci, representing eighteen enzyme systems, was assayed to analyse the genetic structure in eight populations of grey pine and attempt to track its migration history from southern to northern California. Expected heterozygosity in the two southernmost samples was 0.128 and 0.150, and heterozygosity tended to decrease with increasing latitude, suggesting the loss of diversity as grey pine dispersed northward. However, genetic distances between populations were very small, even on opposite sides of the treeless Great Central Valley; and estimated time since divergence was 900 to 9000 years at a maximum. Wright's F<sub>ST</sub>, the proportion of total genetic diversity among populations, was only 0.057, which is similar to values found in many conifers with continuous distributions. Nm, the number of migrants among populations per generation, was 4.1 to 6.7, depending on estimator, and indicates that gene flow is extensive, or was so in the recent past. In every population, observed heterozygosity was less than expected heterozygosity, and the fixation index, F<sub>IS</sub>, for the progeny was 0.128, which indicates a fairly high rate of inbreeding. The genetic similarity of disjunct populations, in combination with paleogeographic and paleoclimatic evidence, suggests that grey pine formed a continuous population throughout the Great Central Valley, perhaps between 12,000 and 8000 yrs BP. Its range became fragmented during the Xerothermic, when it ascended into the foothills. Gaps in its range correlate with late Pleistocene-early Holocene lakes in adjacent basins and with the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta.
20532070|Aim: Indicators for biodiversity are needed to facilitate the identification of complementary reserve networks for biodiversity conservation. One widely adopted approach is to use indicator taxa, i.e. a single taxon such as birds or butterflies, despite the ongoing debate regarding their usefulness as indicators of broader biodiversity. Here we assess several aspects, such as influence of species number, of indicator taxa for three extensive data sets to improve our insight into the effectiveness of indicator taxa. Location: Denmark, sub-Saharan Africa and Uganda. Methods: First, we investigate to what extent variation in species number between indicator taxa (e.g. 488 mammal spp. vs. 210 snake spp.) is causing the differences in effectiveness between indicator taxa. Second, we investigate whether indicator taxa are capable of outperforming indicator groups composed of random sets of species chosen among all taxa. Finally, we assess the correlation of specific properties such as mean range size of the indicator taxa to their effectiveness. We investigate these aspects of the effectiveness of indicator taxa through the separate analysis of three distinct distributional species data sets: sub-Saharan Africa (4,039 spp.), Denmark (847 spp.) and Uganda (2,822 spp.). Results: We overall found that indicator taxa comprising a greater number of species tend to perform better than indicator taxa with fewer species (e.g. 488 mammal spp. outperform 210 snake spp.), although there are some exceptions. Second, we found most indicator taxa to perform worse than indicator groups consisting of a comparable number of species selected among all taxa. Finally, the effectiveness of indicator taxa was seen to correlate poorly with selected distributional properties such as mean range size of the indicator taxa, suggesting that it is difficult to predict which taxa are efficient biodiversity indicators. Main conclusions: Overall, these findings might suggest that focus should simply be on increasing the number of species among all taxa as basis for priority setting, rather than striving to obtain the 'perfect' indicator taxa.
20172030|Dunlin Calidris alpina is one of the most abundant shorebirds using coastal habitats in the East Atlantic migratory flyway, that links arctic breeding locations (Greenland to Siberia) with wintering grounds (West Europe to West Africa). Differential migration and winter segregation between populations have been indicated by morphometrics and ringing recoveries. Here, we analyse the potential of genetic markers (mitochondrial DNA - mtDNA) to validate and enhance such findings. We compared mtDNA haplotypes frequencies at different wintering sites (from north-west Europe to West Africa). All birds from West Africa had western (European) haplotypes, while the eastern (Siberian) haplotypes were only present in European winter samples, reaching higher frequencies further north in Europe. Compilation of published results from migrating birds also confirmed these differences, with the sole presence of European haplotypes in Iberia and West Africa and increasingly higher frequencies of Siberian haplotypes from south-west to north-west Europe. Comparison with published haplotype frequencies of breeding populations shows that birds from Greenland, Iceland, and North Europe were predominant in wintering grounds in West Africa, while populations wintering in West Europe originated from more eastern breeding grounds (e.g. North Russia). These results show that genetic markers can be used to enhance the integrative monitoring of wintering and breeding populations, by providing biogeographical evidence that validate the winter segregation of breeding populations.
20172024|Apple snails (Ampullariidae: Pomacea) native to the New World have become agricultural and environmental pests widely in southern and eastern Asia since their introduction in about 1980. Although their impacts have been extensively documented, considerable confusion persists regarding their identities and geographical origins. Efforts to resolve the confusion have suffered from inadequate taxonomic and geographical sampling from both native and introduced ranges. Using phylogenetic and genealogical methods, we analysed 610-655 bp of cytochrome c oxidase subunit I DNA sequences from 783 apple snails from 164 Asian locations and 57 native South American locations. In Asia, we found four species of Pomacea in two clades: (1) Pomacea canaliculata and P. insularum, and (2) P. scalaris and P. diffusa. Parsimony networks and mismatch distributions indicate that the non-native ranges of the two most widespread species, P. canaliculata and P. insularum, probably result from multiple introductions. Molecular analyses are consistent with early accounts; non-native P. canaliculata populations trace back to multiple locations in Argentina and have probably been introduced more than once. In contrast, P. insularum was probably introduced from Brazil and Argentina independently. Multiple introductions may, in part, explain the success and rapid spread of these two species. Unlike P. canaliculata and P. insularum, P. scalaris and P. diffusa were probably introduced through the aquarium trade, derived originally from Argentina and Brazil, respectively. Possible physiological, ecological, and native range differences among these four species highlight the importance of accurate identification in understanding invasion patterns and processes, which is vital in developing and implementing management strategies.
40390734|Aim To study the siting of marine protected areas (MPAs) with respect to the biogeographical distribution of seaweeds within the Agulhas Marine Province and to assess the effectiveness of current MPAs in including (conserving) seaweeds of the South African south coast. Location South Africa - the south coast between Cape Agulhas and the Eastern Cape/Kwazulu-Natal border, and eight MPAs within that area. Methods We used interpolated seaweed distribution records from all available sources, in 50-km coastal sections. Cluster analysis (Jaccard Average Linkage) of species presence/absence data provided measures of similarity between coastal sections and between MPAs. Complementarity analyses identified the sequence of 'importance' of sections/MPAs for conserving seaweed species. Results Species presence/absence data indicated two main groups, representing western (cooler water) and eastern (warmer water) biogeographical divisions, as well as several biogeographical subdivisions within each of these groups. Complementarity analysis yielded a sequence of 'importance' of coastal sections (in terms of the highest number of species included) that began with a section just east of central in the Agulhas Marine Province, around Port Alfred, where there is no MPA. This was followed by the easternmost section (warmest water), which contains the Pondoland MPA, and then by the westernmost (coolest water) section, containing the De Hoop MPA. Similar analysis of the actual species collected in MPAs showed a generally similar pattern. Main conclusions Seven current MPAs and one proposed coastal MPA in the Agulhas Marine Province appear to be well distributed and well sited to include (conserve) the full biogeographical range of seaweeds. However, if further MPAs are to be considered, the Port Alfred area is recommended for improved conservation. This study did not examine estuaries, which may require improved conservation efforts. Seaweed distribution data, which are often relatively complete, offer a good tool for planning the siting of coastal MPAs.
2999807|It has long been suggested that marine species are generally less prone to extinction than terrestrial species. Emerging evidence for this is supported by both modern and fossil extinction rate data. These show that marine taxa tend to have consistently lower extinction rates during geologic time as well as the current extinction crisis. Because of the practical difficulties of accurately measuring fossil and modern extinction rates, this evidence is only tentative. However, this does agree with other lines of emerging evidence such as broader geographic ranges for marine species. While the apparent lower risk could be used to justify the relative neglect of marine biodiversity by policy-makers, this cannot continue indefinitely. The marine realm is suffering many local extinctions, as with coral reefs, which will eventually accumulate to cause species extinctions. Furthermore, species extinctions in the marine realm may ultimately result in more fundamental biodiversity loss because there are more phyla, and other higher taxa, which are represented by fewer species and have lower rates of evolution. Correcting this problem will require greater attention to the relatively neglected theory, design and establishment of marine reserves while recognizing that marine extinction dynamics are often distinct from terrestrial dynamics. Examples include a greater relative role for dispersal in maintaining local populations and the greater threat of exotic species for marine biodiversity.
20172011| The damaging effects of invasive organisms have triggered the development of Invasive Species Predictive Schemes (ISPS). These schemes evaluate biological and historical characteristics of species and prioritize those that should be the focus of exclusion, quarantine, and/or control. However, it is not clear how commonly these schemes take microevolutionary considerations into account. We review the recent literature and find that rapid evolutionary changes are common during invasions. These evolutionary changes include rapid adaptation of invaders to new environments, effects of hybridization, and evolution in recipient communities. Strikingly, we document 38 species in which the specific traits commonly associated with invasive potential (e.g. growth rate, dispersal ability, generation time) have themselves undergone evolutionary change following introduction, in some cases over very short ( 10 year) timescales. In contrast, our review of 29 ISPS spanning plant, animal, and microbial taxa shows that the majority (76%) envision invading species and recipient communities as static entities. Those that incorporate evolutionary considerations do so in a limited way. Evolutionary change not only affects the predictive power of these schemes, but also complicates their evaluation. We argue that including the evolutionary potential of species and communities in ISPS is overdue, present several metrics related to evolutionary potential that could be incorporated in ISPS, and provide suggestions for further research on these metrics and their performance. Finally, we argue that the fact of evolutionary change during invasions begs for added caution during risk assessment. 
40930611|Aim We searched for evidence of floristic homogenization in widespread oceanic archipelagos. Location Twelve oceanic archipelagos in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans: Ascension, Azores, Canary, Cape Verde, Desventuradas, Easter, Galpagos, Hawaii, Juan Fernndez, Madeira, Puerto Rico and Savage. Methods By using Jaccard's index, we established the floristic similarity between pairs of archipelagos at two stages: original (pre-European; J o ) and current flora (J c ). Then, we calculated J= J c J o , where positive differences imply that similarity has increased floristic homogenization. Results We found that floristic similarity increased fourfold on average, from 1.6% to 6.3% for original and current floras, respectively. In fact, we recorded 64 cases in which floristic similarity increased and only two in which it decreased. The importance of invasions exceeds that of extirpations as a driver of biotic change by more than an order of magnitude (2679 versus 142 species, respectively). Main conclusions The vascular floras of these 12 insular oceanic systems have increased in compositional similarity, a phenomenon consistent with the trend towards biotic homogenization. It can be characterized as a teleconnected process that operates across vast geographical distances, driven by the unprecedented capacity of humans for translocation. Trends in biotic homogenization differ depending on the geographical location (i.e. Pacific < Atlantic archipelagos) and phylogenetic groups (island vascular plants > island birds reported in a previous study), emphasizing the complexity of biotic change.
2673345|Because hereditary symbiont transmission is normally absent in the mutualism of legume plants and root-nodule bacteria (rhizobia), dispersing plants may often arrive at new habitats where mutualist partners are too rare to provide full benefits. Factors governing invasion success were explored by analysing a system of two coupled pairwise competition models: a legume invader competing with a resident non-mutualistic plant, and a rhizobial population competing with a resident population of nonsymbiotic bacteria. The non-linear dependence of benefits on partner abundance in this mutualism creates the possibility of two alternative population size equilibria, so that a threshold density can exist for invasion. If legumes and rhizobia exceed a critical population size, both species achieve rapid population growth, while if initial densities of both species are below their respective thresholds, they remain rare and are thus vulnerable to extinction in the presence of competitors. Overall, the results indicate that legumes may often fail at colonization attempts within habitats where mutualist partners are scarce. Data on legume prevalence in island floras and rates of geographical spread by legume weeds are consistent with this inference. Predictive insights about invasiveness may emerge from comparative research on key traits identified by the model, especially the shape of the function determining the number of nodules formed at low rhizobial density.
2673326|This paper assesses variation in coral species diversity within the Indonesian archipelago, and the influence of regional species pools, geomorphology and anthropogenic pollution on coral species diversity and occurrence. We obtained transects from 33 sites on 14 reefs in three regions of Indonesia: Ambon (Moluccas), South Sulawesi and the Java Sea. We determined the within-site species richness by using species-sampling curves. Cluster analysis and multi-dimensional scaling showed that land-based pollution was the primary determinant of coral species diversity and species occurrence on reefs. Relatively unaffected reference sites in eastern Indonesia were approximately 20% more diverse than Java Sea reference sites. Rare species formed a higher proportion of the coral fauna on eastern Indonesian sites, and eastern Indonesian apparent endemic species contributed approximately 25% of the total species pool sampled. Between-site variation in species occurrence was lower on Java Sea reefs than on eastern Indonesian reefs. A larger species pool in eastern Indonesia than in the Java Sea probably accounted for most of the difference in within-site species diversity between eastern Indonesian and Java Sea reference sites. High fishing intensity in the Java Sea, including destructive fishing practices, may have also contributed to reduced within-site species diversity on Java Sea reference reefs. Despite the fact that the Java Sea was exposed during Pleistocene lowstands, and was recolonized by marine organisms only within the last 10 000 years, coral species diversity and assemblage composition on the Java Sea reefs was largely similar to open ocean reefs in eastern Indonesia.
40390773|Aim Plant and arthropod diversity are often related, but data on the role of mature tree diversity on canopy insect communities are fragmentary. We compare species richness of canopy beetles across a tree diversity gradient ranging from mono-dominant beech to mixed stands within a deciduous forest, and analyse community composition changes across space and time. Location Germany's largest exclusively deciduous forest, the Hainich National Park (Thuringia). Methods We used flight interception traps to assess the beetle fauna of various tree species, and applied additive partitioning to examine spatiotemporal patterns of diversity. Results Species richness of beetle communities increased across the tree diversity gradient from 99 to 181 species per forest stand. Intra-and interspecific spatial turnover among trees contributed more than temporal turnover among months to the total y-beetle diversity of the sampled stands. However, due to parallel increases in the number of habitat generalists and the number of species in each feeding guild (herbivores, predators and fungivores), no proportional changes in community composition could be observed. If only beech trees were analysed across the gradient, patterns were similar but temporal (monthly) species turnover was higher compared to spatial turnover among trees and not related to tree diversity. Main conclusions The changes in species richness and community composition across. the gradient can be explained by habitat heterogeneity, which increased with the mix of tree species. We conclude that understanding temporal and spatial species turnover is the key to understanding biodiversity patterns. Monodominant beech stands are insufficient to conserve fully the regional species richness of the remaining semi-natural deciduous forest habitats in Central Europe, and analysing beech alone would have resulted in the misleading conclusion that temporal (monthly) turnover contributes more to beetle diversity than spatial turnover among different tree species or tree individuals.
40604240|Aims To highlight the potential value of network analysis for conservation biogeography and to focus attention on some of the challenges that lie ahead in applying it to conservation problems. Location Global. Methods We briefly review existing literature and then focus on five important challenges for the further development of network-based approaches in the field. Results Our five challenges include (i) understanding cross-scale and cross-level linkages in ecological systems (top-down and bottom-up effects, such as trophic cascades, have been demonstrated in food webs but are poorly understood in nested hierarchies such as reserve networks and stream catchments), (ii) capturing dynamic aspects of ecological systems and networks (with a few exceptions we have little grasp of how important whole-network attributes change as the composition of nodes and links changes), (iii) integrating ecological aspects of network theory with metacommunity frameworks and multiple node functions and roles (can we link the spatial patterns of habitat patches in fragmented landscapes, the parallel networks of interacting species using those patches and community-level interactions as defined by metacommunity theory in a single framework?), (iv) integrating the analysis of social and ecological networks (particularly, can they be analysed as a single interacting system?) and (v) laying an empirical foundation for network analysis in conservation biogeography (this will require a larger data bank of well-studied networks from diverse habitats and systems). Main conclusions Recent research has identified a variety of approaches that we expect to contribute to progress in each of our five challenge areas. We anticipate that some of the most exciting outcomes of attempts to meet these challenges will be frameworks that unite areas of research, such as food web analysis and metacommunity theory, that have developed independently.
41058182|Aim Bringing new approaches to trace spatiotemporal variations in animals' feeding ecology, which is fundamental for wildlife management and conservation since the accessibility of animals to trophic resources plays a key role in the dynamics of populations and metapopulations. Location Western Mediterranean coast. Methods The analysis of naturally occurring stable isotopes constitutes an exceptional approach to assess variations in the trophic ecology of species within the spatiotemporal dimensions. Here, we examined the spatiotemporal heterogeneity in resource exploitation of a nuisance and overpopulated gull species with a great feeding plasticity, the Yellow-legged gull Larus michahellis, by measuring the stable isotope ratios of carbon (C/C, C), nitrogen (N/N, N) and sulphur (S/S, S) in different wing feathers. Results Tracing isotopic changes among feathers in relation to moulting sequence, we showed that isotopic analyses on first primary feathers were good indicators of breeding trophic ecology, while others, such as eighth secondary feathers, reflected the feeding behaviour during the non-breeding period. This knowledge was then used to report on estimations of seasonal feeding patterns throughout the year for seven gull populations along the Western Mediterranean coast. Main conclusions The high diversity in the exploitation patterns of the foraging habitats found in the study area both at spatial and at temporal scale indicated the opportunistic feeding behaviour of Yellow-legged gulls. Proposed isotopic approach has revealed as a useful tool to evaluate spatiotemporal variations in the feeding ecology of populations which may become clue for dealing with the management of wild species, not only nuisance populations but also endangered species. We finally pointed out the relevance of the isotopic variability among individuals to infer diet diversity and food availability of a given population, thereby allowing demographic forecasts when trophic resources vary in abundance.
4539970|Understanding the relative importance of factors driving savanna-forest dynamics is vital as changes in the extent of tropical forests can have major impacts on global climate and carbon balance, biodiversity, and human well-being. Comparison of aerial photographs for 50 rainforest patches in Kakadu National Park had previously revealed a landscape wide expansion of rainforest boundaries between 1964 and 2004. Here, we used generalized linear and mixed effects models to assess the role of fire, buffalo impact, and patch characteristics in determining the rate of boundary change. The analysis was conducted at both the patch scale, and within-patch (plot) scale, to capture the different processes operating. At the patch scale, the rate of change was best explained by rainforest type and historical buffalo impact. Fire activity, patch size, and fragmentation were not important predictors of the rate of change. At the plot scale, distance from rainforest edge was the most important predictor of the probability of change, while the fragmentation and aspect of the boundary were unimportant. Rainforest expansion has occurred through a process of margin extension rather than eruption of new patches. The rainforest expansion is consistent with having been driven primarily by shifts in global change phenomena, such as increased rainfall and atmospheric CO
3246751|This study investigated the impact of invasion by an alien hybrid willow (the white-crack willow, Salix x rubens) on the abundance and diversity of terrestrial arthropods along the lower Tarago River in south-eastern Australia in spring and summer. Canopy arthropods were sampled by branch clippings, flying insects by sticky traps, and arthropod stream inputs by floating pan traps in willow-invaded and uninvaded river sections. Willow-invaded river sections had a significantly lower abundance and diversity of canopy arthropods, but the abundance and diversity of flying insects did not differ between willow-invaded and native sections. Overall input of terrestrial arthropods was lower in willow-invaded sections but this depended on sampling date. In general, differences in arthropod abundance between willow-invaded and native river sections were greater in spring than summer, which may reflect seasonal changes in resource availability in native river sections. Morphospecies composition also differed significantly between willow-invaded and native sections. These changes in abundance, diversity, and composition of terrestrial arthropods following plant invasion of the riparian zone may indirectly alter in-stream food webs and have important effects on higher-order consumers in the riparian zone.
41058185|Aim Robust and reliable predictions of the effects of climate change on biodiversity are required in formulating conservation and management strategies that best retain biodiversity into the future. Significant challenges in modelling climate change impacts arise from limitations in our current knowledge of biodiversity. Community-level modelling can complement species-level approaches in overcoming these limitations and predicting climate change impacts on biodiversity as a whole. However, the community-level approaches applied to date have been largely correlative, ignoring the key processes that influence change in biodiversity over space and time. Here, we suggest that the development of new 'semi-mechanistic' community-level models would substantially increase our capacity to predict climate change impacts on biodiversity. Location Global. Methods Drawing on an expansive review of biodiversity modelling approaches and recent advances in semi-mechanistic modelling at the species level, we outline the main elements of a new semi-mechanistic community-level modelling approach. Results Our quantitative review revealed a sharp divide between mechanistic and non-mechanistic biodiversity modelling approaches, with very few semi-mechanistic models developed to date. Main conclusions We suggest that the conceptual framework presented here for combining mechanistic and non-mechanistic community-level approaches offers a promising means of incorporating key processes into predictions of climate change impacts on biodiversity whilst working within the limits of our current knowledge.
41242823|Aim Woody plants were not widely considered to be important invasive alien species until fairly recently. Thousands of species of trees and shrubs have, however, been moved around the world. Many species have spread from planting sites, and some are now among the most widespread and damaging of invasive organisms. This article presents a global list of invasive alien trees and shrubs. It discusses taxonomic biases, geographical patterns, modes of dispersal, reasons for introductions and key issues regarding invasions of non-native woody plants around the world. Location Global. Methods An exhaustive survey was made of regional and national databases and the literature. Correspondence with botanists and ecologists and our own observations in many parts of the world expanded the list. Presence of invasive species was determined for each of 15 broad geographical regions. The main reasons for introduction and dissemination were determined for each species. Results The list comprises 622 species (357 trees, 265 shrubs in 29 plant orders, 78 families, 286 genera). Regions with the largest number of woody invasive alien species are: Australia (183); southern Africa (170); North America (163); Pacific Islands (147); and New Zealand (107). Species introduced for horticulture dominated the list (62% of species: 196 trees and 187 shrubs). The next most important reasons for introduction and dissemination were forestry (13%), food (10%) and agroforestry (7%). Three hundred and twenty-three species (52%) are currently known to be invasive in only one region, and another 126 (20%) occur in only two regions. Only 38 species (6%) are very widespread (invasive in six or more regions). Over 40% of invasive tree species and over 60% of invasive shrub species are bird dispersed. Main conclusions Only between 0.5% and 0.7% of the world's tree and shrub species are currently invasive outside their natural range, but woody plant invasions are rapidly increasing in importance around the world. The objectively compiled list of invasive species presented here provides a snapshot of the current dimensions of the phenomenon and will be useful for screening new introductions for invasive potential.
20171963|The publication, in 1958, of Charles Elton's book "The ecology of invasions by animals and plants" launched the systematic study of biological invasions. Invasion ecology has grown to become an important multi-disciplinary subfield of ecology with growing links to many other disciplines. This paper examines the citation history of Elton's book using the Web of Science. We also examine Elton's influence in shaping the current research agenda in invasion ecology, for which we use the 28 papers in a special issue of "Diversity and Distributions" (Volume 14:2) as a representative sample. After 50 years, Elton's book remains the most cited single source in the field (&gt; 1500 citations), and is cited more often every year (&gt; 100 times) than any other invasion-related publication, including influential papers in journals. Most citations to Elton's book refer to particular topics/concepts covered in the book, rather than citing it as a general reference about invasions. The shift in the distribution of topics/concepts cited with reference to Elton over time follows the same trend as for biogeography and ecology in general (increasing emphasis on analytical studies, multi-scale analyses, multi-disciplinary studies, etc.). Some topics emphasized by Elton are still the focus of current research (dispersal and spread of invasive organisms, impact on biodiversity, role of disturbance and enemy release) but several prominent themes in modern studies were not addressed by Elton. The emergence of new themes can be attributed to a general change in approach and emphasis underpinning research questions in conservation biogeography and applied ecology over the last half century (risk analysis, multi-scale comparisons, propagule pressure, experimental approaches) and to the recent emergence and increasing availability of large data sets on the distribution of introduced species and to the emergence of key technologies (e.g. geographic information systems, modelling techniques, including niche-based modelling, and molecular methods). Half a century after its publication, Charles Elton's book on invasions remains influential, but massive changes in the status of invasions and other environmental issues worldwide, together with advances in technology, are reshaping the game rules and priorities of invasion ecology.
3696826|There are several ways to extract information about the evolutionary ecology of clades from their phylogenies. Of these, character state optimization and 'ancestor reconstruction' are perhaps the most widely used despite their being fraught with assumptions and potential pitfalls. Requirements for robust inferences of ancestral traits in general (i.e. those applicable to all types of characters) include accurate and robust phylogenetic hypotheses, complete species-level sampling and the appropriate choice of optimality criterion. Ecological characters, however, also require careful consideration of methods for accounting for intraspeciflc variability. Such methods include 'Presence Coding' and 'Polymorphism Coding' for discrete ecological characters, and 'Range Coding' and 'MaxMin Coding' for continuously variable characters. Ultimately, however, historical inferences such as these are, as with phylogenetic inference itself, associated with a degree of uncertainty. Statistically based uncertainty estimates are available within the context of model-based inference (e.g. maximum likelihood and Bayesian); however, these measures are only as reliable as the chosen model is appropriate. Although generally thought to preclude the possibility of measuring relative uncertainty or support for alternative possible reconstructions, certain useful non-statistical support measures (i.e. 'Sharkey support' and 'Parsimony support') are applicable to parsimony reconstructions.
3246840|Based on both theoretical and empirical studies there is evidence that different species abundance distributions underlie different species-area relationships. Here I show that Australian and Californian shrubland communities (at the scale from 1 to 1000 m
20172005|Existing in suboptimal conditions is a frequent occurrence for species inhabiting the cusp of their ecological range. In range-edge populations of plants, the scarcity of suitable habitat may be reflected in small population sizes which may result in increased self-pollination and/or inbreeding and an increase in the incidence of clonal reproduction. These factors may result in a decrease in levels of genetic diversity and a loss of potential adaptive variation that may compromise species' ability to cope with changes in their environment, an issue that is particularly relevant today with the current concern surrounding global climate change and its effect on species' distributional ranges. In the present study, we have compared the levels of clonal reproduction in the one-sided wintergreen Orthilia secunda (L.) House in (1) populations from its main continuous distribution range, (2) populations occurring on the limits of the continuous range, and (3) peripheral populations outwith the species' continuous distribution range. Range-edge populations in Scotland and Sweden displayed significantly lower genotypic richness and diversity than those from the main area of the species' distribution in these countries. Populations from Ireland, which occur in the temperate zone rather than the boreal conditions that are the preferred habitat for the species, and which represent relict populations left over from cooler periods in the Earth's history, displayed no within-population genetic diversity, suggesting a complete lack of sexual reproduction. Furthermore, the genetic distinctiveness of the Irish populations, which contained alleles not found in either the Scottish or the Swedish populations, highlights the value of 'trailing edge' populations and supports the concept of 'parochial conservation', namely the conservation of species that are locally rare but globally common.
4539973|We investigate patterns of species richness of squamates (lizards, snakes, and amphisbaenians) in the Brazilian Cerrado, identifying areas of particularly high richness, and testing predictions of large-scale richness hypotheses by analysing the relationship between species richness and environmental climatic variables. We used point localities from museum collections to produce maps of the predicted distributions for 237 Cerrado squamate species, using niche-modelling techniques. We superimposed distributions of all species on a composite map, depicting richness across the ecosystem. Then, we performed a multiple regression analysis using eigenvector-based spatial filtering (Principal Coordinate of Neighbour Matrices) to assess environmental-climatic variables that are best predictors of species richness. We found that the environmental-climatic and spatial filters multiple regression model explained 78% of the variation in Cerrado squamate richness (r
20532098|Aim: Some invasive species succeed particularly well and manage to establish populations across a wide variety of regions and climatic conditions. Understanding how biotic and environmental factors facilitate their invasion success remains a challenge. Here, we assess the role of two major hypotheses explaining invasion success: (1) enemy-release, which argues that invasive species are freed from their native predators and parasites in the new areas; and (2) climate-matching, which argues that the climatic similarity between the exotic and native range determines the success of invasive populations. Location: India, Israel and the UK. Methods: We studied the reproductive success of one of the most successful avian invaders, the rose-ringed parakeet (Psittacula krameri), in its native range (India) and in two introduced regions, varying in their climate conditions (Israel and the UK). We combined literature and field data to evaluate the role of predation pressure and climatic conditions in explaining the differences in reproductive success between the three regions. Results: We found significant differences in reproductive success between regions. In accordance with the enemy-release hypothesis, we discovered that while predation was the main factor responsible for the reduction of fecundity in India, it did not significantly affect the fecundities of parakeet populations in the two introduced regions. In accordance with the climate-matching hypothesis, we found that in the colder temperate UK, egg infertility was high, resulting in lower fecundities. Populations in both the warmer Mediterranean climate of Israel and in the native Indian range had significantly lower egg infertility and higher fecundities than the UK populations. Main conclusions: Our findings support both the enemy-release and the climate-matching hypotheses. While release from predators facilitates the reproductive success and therefore the invasiveness of parakeets in both the UK and in Israel, colder climate impedes reproduction and therefore the spread of parakeets in the UK.
4539913|Ground waters have exceptional conservation value due to the high endemism of their biota, the high occurrence of species relicts and because they are the second most important reservoir of freshwater after the glaciers. We used habitat-based models to predict the distribution of obligate groundwater species (stygobionts) in the Jura Mountains, eastern France. Current and historical environmental variables were selected to predict the occurrence of 19 stygobionts collected in different groundwater habitats. Species occurrence was weakly correlated with most of the physico-chemical variables and better correlated to habitat type, elevation gradient, hydraulic conductivity and the distance of the last glacial event. We identified two main groups of species, those whose distributions correlated with the last glacial event and those that did not. Our findings suggested that abilities for migrate and opportunities for dispersal using connections among habitats may explain part of these distributions and that specific spatial components should be incorporated in future modelling. We propose the identification of rich-species areas and protection of the complete spectrum of GW habitats as pertinent measures to achieve the stygobitoic persistence.
20172031|During recent years, predictive modelling techniques have been increasingly used to identify regional patterns of species spatial occurrence, to explore species--habitat relationships and to aid in biodiversity conservation. In the case of birds, predictive modelling has been mainly applied to the study of species with little variable interannual patterns of spatial occurrence (e.g. year-round resident species or migratory species in their breeding grounds showing territorial behaviour). We used predictive models to analyse the factors that determine broad-scale patterns of occurrence and abundance of wintering Swainson's hawks (Buteo swainsoni). This species has been the focus of field monitoring in its wintering ground in Argentina due to massive pesticide poisoning of thousands of individuals during the 1990s, but its unpredictable pattern of spatial distribution and the uncertainty about the current wintering area occupied by hawks led to discontinuing such field monitoring. Data on the presence and abundance of hawks were recorded in 30  30 km squares (n = 115) surveyed during three austral summers (2001-03). Sixteen land-use/land-cover, topography, and Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) variables were used as predictors to build generalized additive models (GAMs). Both occurrence and abundance models showed a good predictive ability. Land use, altitude, and NDVI during spring previous to the arrival of hawks to wintering areas were good predictors of the distribution of Swainson's hawks in the Argentine pampas, but only land use and NDVI were entered into the model of abundance of the species in the region. The predictive cartography developed from the models allowed us to identify the current wintering area of Swainson's hawks in the Argentine pampas. The highest occurrence probability and relative abundances for the species were predicted for a broad area of southeastern pampas that has been overlooked so far and where neither field research nor conservation efforts aiming to prevent massive mortalities has been established.
40604227|The average range size of alien plants in Spain reaches a maximum at 143 years. This is consistent with estimates of such a maximum in Ireland, Britain, Germany and the Czech Republic. A round figure of about 150 years on average for neophytes to reach their maximum range in European countries is indicated.
20172012|Increasing international trade has exacerbated the risks of ecological damage due to invasive pests and diseases. For extreme events such as invasions of damaging exotic species or natural catastrophes, there are no or very few directly relevant data, so expert opinion must be relied on heavily. Expert opinion must be as fully informed and calibrated as possible -- by available data, by other experts, and by the reasoned opinions of stakeholders. We survey a number of quantitative and non-quantitative methods that have shown promise for improving extreme risk analysis, particularly for assessing the risks of invasive pests and pathogens associated with international trade. We describe the legally inspired regulatory regime for banks, where these methods have been brought to bear on extreme 'operational risks'. We argue that an 'advocacy model' similar to that used in the Basel II compliance regime for bank operational risks and to a lesser extent in biosecurity import risk analyses is ideal for permitting the diversity of relevant evidence about invasive species to be presented and soundly evaluated. We recommend that the process be enhanced in ways that enable invasion ecology to make more explicit use of the methods found successful in banking.
40390706|Aim Introduced macroalgae are widespread in the world's oceans and, despite increasing awareness and attempts to limit the phenomenon, the number of species introductions in coastal waters has increased exponentially over time. Little is known about the rates and mechanisms of spread, even among species that have received the most attention. We compare patterns of range expansion for nine species of invasive algae across eight geographic regions. Location World-wide. Methods We compiled records of introduced algae from the scientific literature, herbaria, and by contacting experts to reconstruct chronologies for 22 algal invasions. These were used to map patterns of spread at a regional scale (thousands of km). Results Range size tended to increase linearly with time, often after an initial lag. Range expansion occurred at rates of tens to hundreds of kilometres per year, often with large infrequent increases. Rates of range expansion differed significantly between species within the same region, and between regions for the same species. Main conclusions Our results suggest that anthropogenic vectors likely play a key role in the spread of introduced macroalgae at a regional scale, although natural long-distance dispersal also may be important for some species. The lack of consistency in the rates within individual species and regions suggests that multiple interacting factors (e.g. algal traits, characteristics of invaded communities, environmental conditions and anthropogenic activities) "determine where propagules of introduced algae are delivered and whether they become established.
4539915| Ecologists have traditionally viewed -diversity as the ratio between -diversity and average -diversity. More recently, an alternative way of partitioning diversity has been proposed for which -diversity is obtained as the difference between -diversity and average-diversity. Although this additive model of diversity decomposition is generally considered superior to its multiplicative counterpart, in both models -diversity is a formally derived quantity without any self-contained ecological meaning; it simply quantifies the diversity excess of -diversity with respect to average -diversity. Taking this excess as an index of -diversity is a questionable operation. In this paper, we show that a particular family of -diversity measures, the most celebrated of which is Rao's quadratic entropy, can be adequately used for summarizing -diversity. Our proposal naturally leads to a new additive model of diversity for which, given two or more sets of plots, overall plot-to-plot species variability can be additively partitioned into two non-negative components: average variability in species composition within each set of plots and the species variability between the set of plots. For conservation purposes, the suggested change of perspective in the summarization of -diversity allows for a flexible analysis of spatial heterogeneity in ecological diversity so that different hierarchical levels of biotic relevance (i.e. from the genetic to the landscape level) can be expressed in a significant and consistent way. 
20172014|Despite the global network of protected areas covers 12% of the world's land surface, its performance is still unsatisfactory. Although political and scientifically sound conservation targets usually portray different pictures of the task ahead, we show that in terms of priority areas for expanding the global network of reserves, there is much agreement between the political targets of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), and the scientifically derived goals endorsed by international conservation organizations. Here we analyse four global databases to identify priority areas for fulfilling the CBD target of representing 10% of every ecological region within protected areas, and compare the distribution of priority regions for fulfilling that political target, with the distribution of the priority areas for global biodiversity conservation identified by Conservation International, the WWF, and the Wildlife Conservation Society on scientific basis. For 63% (549) of the world's terrestrial ecoregions the CBD 10% target is still not met; fulfilling it requires protecting another 4.6% of the Earth's land surface (6,239,894 km). Yet, at least 78% of the priority regions for fulfilling that target lay within priority regions for the main global conservation strategies. By pursuing the political target set by the CBD much ancillary gains in terms of other global conservation objectives can be obtained.
2673284|Attempts to determine global priorities for conservation and studies aimed at highlighting the conservation value of one continental region over another often devalue specific regions. Amazonia has been a particular recipient of this treatment in a number of recent studies. We suggest that this type of approach is not necessary at this scale, and we argue that the consequences could be devastating for the largest forests of the world. Among our concerns about the treatment of these forests (Amazonia, the Congo Basin and New Guinea) is that there seems to be a lack of appreciation for, or sufficient study of, important biogeographic subdivisions within these regions. In Amazonia, the south-eastern portion of the basin (the Belem/Para region) has not been considered a global conservation priority, despite the fact that it is experiencing by far the highest deforestation rates. Parsimony Analyses of Endemicity and genetic data suggest that many Amazonian forest taxa are comprised of numerous regionally distinct units, and this may also be true in other large tropical forests. Such patterns need to be documented for adequate conservation of tropical biodiversity, but this might not happen if these regions are not recognized as priorities for conservation at a global scale.
2999818|How the diversity of organisms relates to their body sizes has long been a question of interest to biologists, an interest that has grown as data have become available from an increasing number of taxa at ever larger spatial scales. Here, we examine the form of this relationship for a large proportion of the global placental mammal fauna. In common with other largescale assemblages, the frequency distribution of mammal body masses is strongly right-skewed, even after logarithmic transformation. The modal body mass is slightly lower than predicted by a recent energetic fitness model, but the exact modal value depends on the taxonomic inclusivity of the analyses. Moreover, threatened species are larger bodied than expected by chance, suggesting that extinct species may also have been so. Therefore, the loss of large-bodied species from the global mammalian fauna could potentially have lowered the mode of the distribution. However, this loss must be balanced against evidence that most mammal species for which body mass data were not available for our analyses are small-bodied, which may in turn raise the apparent mode of the distribution. Clearly, tests of explanations for patterns in body size frequency distributions will be complicated by the fact that present-day distributions may be significantly biased by species that are missing from them.
40390718|Aim Determining which traits predispose a species to become invasive is a fundamental question of invasion ecology, but traits affect invasiveness in concert with other factors that need to be controlled for. Here, we explore the relative effects of biological traits of plant species and their distributional characteristics in the native range on invasion success at two stages of invasion. Location Czech Republic (for native species); and the world (for alien species). Methods The source pool of 1218 species of seed plants native to Central Europe was derived from the flora of the Czech Republic, and their occurrence in 706 alien floras all over the world was recorded, distinguishing whether they were listed as an 'alien' or a 'weed' in the latest version of Randall's 'Global compendium of weeds' database. The latter type of occurrence was considered to indicate species ability to invade and cause economic impact, i. e. a more advanced stage of invasion. Using the statistical technique of regression trees, we tested whether 19 biological traits and five distributional characteristics of the species in their native range can be used to predict species success in two stages of invasion. Results The probability of a species becoming alien outside its native distribution range is determined by the size of its native range, and its tolerance of a wide range of climates acquired in the region of origin. Biological traits play only an indirect role at this stage of invasion via determining the size of the native range. However, the ability of species to become a weed is determined not only by the above characteristics of native distribution, but also directly by biological traits (life form and strategy, early flowering, tall stature, generative reproduction, number of ploidy levels and opportunistic dispersal by a number of vectors). Species phylogenetic relatedness plays only a minor role; it is more important at the lowest taxonomic levels and at the later stage of invasion. Main conclusion The global success of Central European species as 'weeds' is determined by their distributional characteristics in the native ranges and by biological traits, but the relative importance of these determinants depends on the stage of invasion. Species which have large native ranges and are common within these ranges should be paid increased attention upon introductions, and the above biological traits should be taken into account in screening systems applied to evaluate deliberate introductions of alien plants to new regions.
4539987|Elevational patterns of species richness and their underlying mechanisms have long been a controversial issue in biodiversity and biogeographical research, and several hypotheses have been proposed in the past decades. Local and regional studies have suggested that area and geometric constraint are two of major factors affecting the elevational pattern of species richness. In this study, using data of seed plants and their distribution ranges and a Digital Elevation Model data set, we explored altitudinal patterns of seed plant richness and quantified the effects of area and the mid-domain effect (MDE) on the richness patterns in a high mountain area, Gaoligong Mountains (ranging from 215 m to 5791 m a.s.l.) located in south-eastern Tibet, China. The results showed that richness and density (richness/log-transformed area) of seed plants at species, genus, and family levels all showed hump-shaped patterns along the altitudinal gradient. The altitudinal changes in richness of species with three different range sizes (< 500 m, 500-1500 m, and > 1500 m), species of different plant life-forms (trees, shrubs, and herbs), and endemic species further confirmed this finding. Analysis of Generalized Linear Model depicted that although the area of each elevational band was always in high correlation with the species richness, the MDE could explain 84.9%, 33.8%, 83.8%, and 84.5% of the total variation in richness for all species and the three species groups with different range sizes, respectively. This suggests that the MDE significantly influences the patterns of species richness and is likely be stronger for broad-ranged species than for narrow-ranged ones in the Gaoligong Mountains.
20172049|A review of georeferenced collection-site records for Caribbean shore-fishes served by major online distributors of aggregated biodiversity data found large-scale errors in over a third of the species and genera, in nearly two-thirds of the families. To avoid compromising the value of their services to the global science community online providers must actively address the question of data quality.
3246706|Dispersal is universally considered important for biodiversity conservation. However, the significance of long- as opposed to short-distance dispersal is insufficiently recognized in the conservation context. Long-distance dispersal (LDD) events, although typically rare, are crucial to population spread and to maintenance of genetic connectivity. The main threats to global biodiversity involve excessive LDD of elements alien to ecosystems and insufficient dispersal of native species, for example, because of habitat fragmentation. In this paper, we attempt to bridge the gap in the treatment of LDD by reviewing the conservation issues for which LDD is most important. We then demonstrate how taking LDD into consideration can improve conservation management decisions.
4539910| Different sources of information about biodiversity may lead to unrealistic or biased estimation of its components, with different patterns according to the scale of analysis. In this study, we analyse patterns of species richness at the local (average alpha) and regional (gamma) scales, and the relationship between them (Whittaker's beta), in central Mexico, using as a source of data for the species' distributions: (1) museum specimen occurrence data for birds, and (2) distribution maps based on ecological niche models developed and refined by experts. We performed analyses at five spatial resolutions (1/32-1/2). Scale changes (grain and extent) affected significantly the estimates of average alpha, gamma, and beta. Use of raw occurrence data vs. distribution maps yielded contrasting results, with raw data underestimating alpha and over-estimating beta, as functions of area. As regards species-area relationships, our results suggest a natural decomposition of factors into an area-invariant component (related to alpha), and an area dependent factor (related to beta). Most of our results are maintained in a null model that randomizes occurrences without changing observed range-size distributions. From this result we argue that average alpha and Whittaker's beta capture little information about the spatial covariation of species distribution patterns. 
40390743|Aim Introgressive hybridization between a locally rare species and a more abundant congener can drive population extinction via genetic assimilation, or the replacement of the rare species gene pool with that of the common species. To date, however, few studies have assessed the effects of such processes at the limits of species' distribution ranges. In this study, we have examined the potential for hybridization between range-edge populations of the wintergreen Pyrola minor and sympatric populations of Pyrola grandiflora. Location Qeqrtarsuaq, Greenland and Churchill, Manitoba, Canada. Methods Genetic analysis of samples from Greenland and Canada was carried out using a combination of nuclear and chloroplast single nudeotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Results Analysis of nuclear SNPs confirmed hybridization in populations of morphologically intermediate individuals, as well as revealing the existence of cryptic hybrids in ostensibly morphologically pure P. minor populations. Analysis of chloroplast SNPs revealed that this hybridization is unidirectional and suggests that hybrids originate via pollen swamping of P. minor by the more common P. grandiflora. Main conclusions Extensive unidirectional hybridization may lead to the extinction of peripheral populations of P. minor where the two species grow sympatrically. Extinction could occur as a result of genetic assimilation where FlS are fertile, or via the removal of unidirectionally pollinated sterile FlS, or by a combination of these processes. This could compromise the ability of species to respond to climate change via habitat tracking, although the final outcome of these processes may ultimately depend on the rate of global climate change and its effect on the species' distributions.
3246892| The urgency of conservation concerns in the tropics, linked with the limitations imposed on research efforts by the tropical environment has resulted in the development of methods for rapid assessment of biological communities. One such method, the MacKinnon list technique, has been increasingly applied in avifaunal surveys worldwide. Using paired tropical bird data sets from Ecuadorian cloud forest and Madagascan littoral forest, we compare the performance of the MacKinnon list with that of the more standard method of point counts in indicating when a site has been adequately surveyed, estimating the magnitude of species richness, quantifying relative species abundance, and providing an -index of diversity. In species-rich Ecuadorian cloud forest, neither method produced data indicating adequate survey effort, despite extensive sampling, whereas in the relatively species-poor Madagascan littoral forests, data collected by both methods indicated that the area had been sufficiently surveyed with comparable sampling effort. Species richness estimates generated from MacKinnon list data provided a more accurate estimate of the magnitude of the species richness for the Ecuadorian avifauna, whereas estimates for the Madagascan avifauna stabilised with relatively few samples using either method. Data collected by each method reflected different patterns of relative abundance among the five most abundant species, with MacKinnon list data showing a bias towards solitary and territorial species and against monospecific flocking species relative to the point count data. As a consequence of this bias, MacKinnon list data also fail to reflect accurately the structure of communities as quantified by an index of community evenness. Point counts, on the other hand, failed to capture the full species complement of the species-rich Ecuadorian study area. As techniques for the rapid assessment of unsurveyed areas, both methods are subject to biases that limit their value, if used alone, in collecting data of scientific and management value. We propose a hybrid rapid assessment methodology that capitalises on the strengths of both techniques while compensating for their weaknesses. 
3246786|In many arid landscapes, springs provide the only reliable source of water. Accordingly, both native species and human land uses, including diversion of water, livestock grazing, and recreation, tend to concentrate around springs and spring-fed riparian areas. We examined whether species richness and composition of aquatic macroinvertebrates at 45 springs in the Spring Mountains, an isolated mountain range in the eastern Mojave Desert (Nevada, USA), could be predicted using readily measured environmental gradients and estimates of disturbance intensity. The Spring Mountains is a focus of regional conservation planning, and managers are charged with prioritizing its springs for conservation and rehabilitation. Our results suggested that species richness of aquatic macroinvertebrates in the Spring Mountains system may be greatest at intermediate levels of natural and human disturbance. Discharge and springbrook length appeared to be only weakly correlated with species richness, whereas neither elevation, nor water temperature, nor electrical conductance was significantly associated with species richness. Nestedness analyses demonstrated that species present in relatively depauperate locations tended to be subsets of the species present in locations that were richer in species, but that pattern did not appear to be driven by either disturbance intensity or by the environmental variables we measured. Disturbance intensity was not associated with the extent to which species presences and absences were predictable. Although our results should not be interpreted to mean that major environmental gradients and disturbance intensity have no effect on distributional patterns of aquatic invertebrates in the Spring Mountains, the ability of these variables to serve as predictors of species richness and composition may be relatively low. Springs and other wetlands in arid landscapes are characterized by isolation and unpredictable disturbances, and faunal responses to environmental gradients may tend to be individualistic and taxon-specific.
4124750|To prioritize weed management at the catchment scale, information is required on the species present, their relatively frequency, abundance, and likely spread and impact. The objective of this study was to classify the invasiveness of alien species that have invaded the Upper Burdekin Catchment in Queensland, Australia, at three spatial scales. A combination of three published weed classification frameworks and multivariate techniques were employed to classify species based on their frequency and cover at a range of spatial scales. We surveyed the Upper Burdekin Catchment for alien species, and for each species determined the following distribution indices - site frequency, total cover, transect frequency per site frequency and quadrat frequency per site frequency, cover per quadrat when present, cover per transect when present, and cover per site when present. These indices capture the effect of species abundance and frequency between sites (site frequency and total cover), within sites (transect frequency per site and cover per transect when present), and within transects (quadrat frequency per site frequency and cover per site). They were used to classify the species into seven groups using a hierarchical cluster analysis. The relationship between the indices was explored to determine how effective the small scale, site-specific indices were at predicting the broader, landscape-scale patterns. Strong correlations were observed between transect frequency per site and frequency (r
3246863|Relationships between the distribution and specific leaf area (SLA: leaf area per unit dry mass) of six heath (Ericaceae) species were investigated along an environmental gradient between peat bogs and conifer forest in British Columbia, Canada. I asked whether patterns in SLA could help to identify the processes shaping plant distributional patterns. Specifically, I assessed whether (i) species' distributions across the environmental gradient are correlated with SLA (ii) relationships between plant distributional patterns and SLA are similar among bogs with different shrub species (iii) intraspecific patterns in SLA parallel interspecific relationships between distributions and SLA, and (iv) intraspecific patterns are environmentally determined. Results showed that distributional patterns were often correlated with SLA; species with lower SLA were more abundant towards the centre of bogs, while species with higher SLA were more abundant in forest. Intraspecific patterns in SLA paralleled distributional patterns across the gradient; individuals located towards the centre of bogs had lower SLA than those growing in forest. A transplantation experiment showed that plants typically altered their SLA according to local environmental conditions. However, one bog showed no relationship between species' distributions and SLA. This bog lacked the two species with lowest SLA, which typically occurred at the centre of other bogs. In their absence, species with higher SLA that typically occurred in forest increased in abundance towards the centre of the bog, where they obtained lower values of SLA. Therefore, while distributional patterns were often closely associated with SLA, plasticity in SLA was associated with increased breadth of species' distributions across the gradient. Overall results indicate SLA may serve as a useful proxy for a range of life history traits to help elucidate the processes structuring plant communities.
20532087|Aim: Global conservation assessments recognize the mediterranean biome as a priority for the conservation of the world's biodiversity. To better direct future conservation efforts in the biome, an improved understanding of the location, magnitude and trend of key threats and their relationship with species of conservation importance is needed. Location: Mediterranean-climate regions in California-Baja California, Chile, South Africa, Australia and the Mediterranean Basin. Methods: We undertook a systematic, pan-regional assessment of threats in the mediterranean biome including human population density, urban area and agriculture. To realize the full implications of these threats on mediterranean biodiversity, we examined their relationship with species of conservation concern: threatened mammals at the global scale and threatened plants at the subecoregional scale in California, USA. Results: Across the biome, population density and urban area increased by 13% and agriculture by 1% between 1990 and 2000. Both population density and urban area were greatest in California-Baja California and least in Australia while, in contrast, agriculture was greatest in Australia and least in California-Baja California. In all regions lowlands were most affected by the threats analysed, with the exception of population density in the Chilean matorral. Threatened species richness had a significant positive correlation with population density at global and subecoregional scales, while threatened species were found to increase with the amount of urban area and decrease as the amount of natural area and unfragmented core area increased. Main conclusions: Threats to mediterranean biodiversity have increased from 1990 to 2000, although patterns vary both across and within the five regions. The need for future conservation efforts is further underlined by the positive correlation between species of conservation concern and the increase in population density over the last decade. Challenges to reducing threats extend beyond those analysed to include human-environmental interactions and their synergistic effects, such as urbanization and invasive species and wildfires.
20171985|Most introduced species apparently have little impact on native biodiversity, but the proliferation of human vectors that transport species worldwide increases the probability of a region being affected by high-impact invaders -- i.e. those that cause severe declines in native species populations. Our study determined whether the number of high-impact invaders can be predicted from the total number of invaders in an area, after controlling for species--area effects. These two variables are positively correlated in a set of 16 invaded freshwater and marine systems from around the world. The relationship is a simple linear function; there is no evidence of synergistic or antagonistic effects of invaders across systems. A similar relationship is found for introduced freshwater fishes across 149 regions. In both data sets, high-impact invaders comprise approximately 10% of the total number of invaders. Although the mechanism driving this correlation is likely a sampling effect, it is not simply the proportional sampling of a constant number of repeat-offenders; in most cases, an invader is not reported to have strong impacts on native species in the majority of regions it invades. These findings link vector activity and the negative impacts of introduced species on biodiversity, and thus justify management efforts to reduce invasion rates even where numerous invasions have already occurred.
40800796|Aim To examine native-exotic species richness relationships across spatial scales and corresponding biotic homogenization in wetland plant communities. Location Illinois, USA. Methods We analysed the native-exotic species richness relationship for vascular plants at three spatial scales (small, 0.25 m of sample area; medium, 1 m of sample area; large, 5 m of sample area) in 103 wetlands across Illinois. At each scale, Spearman's correlation coefficient between native and exotic richness was calculated. We also investigated the potential for biotic homogenization by comparing all species surveyed in a wetland community (from the large sample area) with the species composition in all other wetlands using paired comparisons of their Jaccard's and Simpson's similarity indices. Results At large and medium scales, native richness was positively correlated with exotic richness, with the strength of the correlation decreasing from the large to the medium scale; at the smallest scale, the native-exotic richness correlation was negative. The average value for homogenization indices was 0.096 and 0.168, using Jaccard's and Simpson's indices, respectively, indicating that these wetland plant communities have been homogenized because of invasion by exotic species. Main Conclusions Our study demonstrated a clear shift from a positive to a negative native-exotic species richness relationship from larger to smaller spatial scales. The negative native-exotic richness relationship that we found is suggested to result from direct biotic interactions (competitive exclusion) between native and exotic species, whereas positive correlations likely reflect the more prominent influence of habitat heterogeneity on richness at larger scales. Our finding of homogenization at the community level extends conclusions from previous studies having found this pattern at much larger spatial scales. Furthermore, these results suggest that even while exhibiting a positive native-exotic richness relationship, community level biotas can/are still being homogenized because of exotic species invasion.
3246770|This paper evaluates whether the recent expansion of Bythotrephes longimanus Leydig (Crustacea: Onychopoda) may be a result of endozoochorous avian dispersal. In three experiments, we investigated the survival of diapause eggs in newly produced and end-of-winter developmental stages after their passage through the digestive tract of four species of ducks. Resistance of eggs to digestion was low for both developmental stages (< 12%). Most eggs (67-95%) were recovered by four hours after ingestion, with a longer maximum retention time for newly produced (22 h) than end-of-winter eggs (4-6 h). Ingestion had a detrimental effect on viability: only eggs retrieved one hour after ingestion hatched and the proportion of those ingested that produced viable neonates was low (0.5% for newly produced and 0.3-3% for end-of-winter eggs). We conclude that the probability of endozoochorous dispersal by individual ducks is low but becomes significant when considering the thousands of ducks moving among wetlands. Endozoochorous dispersal of B. longimanus would most likely involve the transport of newly produced diapause eggs from north to south, during the autumn migration of ducks. Based on flight speed estimates of ducks we estimate dispersal probability to drop sharply at distances over 60-80 km.
3696929|The diversity and distribution of lianas were studied in five Afromontane rain forests of Ethiopia. Quadrats of 20 x 20 m were laid down along transects in the Bonga, Berhane-Kontir, Harenna, Yayu and Maji forests. In all forests, 30,917 liana individuals belonging to 123 species in 87 genera and 40 plant families were recorded. The most species-rich families were Asclepiadaceae (14), Fabaceae (9), Annonaceae (7) and Cucurbitaceae (7). The top 10 dominant families represented 56% of the total number of species. Over 400 other plant species representing different life forms were recorded growing together with lianas. The lianas accounted for over 30% of the total woody plant diversity and over 20% of the total floral diversity in the study areas. The analysis of floristic composition of the forests indicates that the Berhane-Kontir Forest had the highest Fisher's diversity index , and Yayu the lowest. Generally, there were low similarities between the forests in terms of species composition. Although lianas were abundant in almost all forests, there was a considerable variation among the forests in terms of density and spatial distribution. The major dispersal modes of lianas were anemochory (30%), mammaliochory (30%), ornithochory and autochory, and the four mechanisms of climbing of lianas were twining (54%), hooking (24%), rooting and use of tendrils. Altitude and human disturbance were found to be important factors affecting liana distribution. The need for sustainable management and use of lianas in the Afromontane rain forests is emphasized.
41242809|Aim To use a fine-grained global model of ant diversity to identify the limits of our knowledge of diversity in the context of climate change. Location Global. Methods We applied generalized linear modelling to a global database of local ant assemblages to predict the species density of ants globally. Predictors evaluated included simple climate variables, combined temperature x precipitation variables, biogeographic region, elevation, and interactions between select variables. Areas of the planet identified as beyond the reliable prediction ability of the model were those having climatic conditions more extreme than what was represented in the ant database. Results Temperature was the most important single predictor of ant species density, and a mix of climatic variables, biogeographic region and interactions between climate and region yielded the best overall model. Broadly, geographic patterns of ant diversity match those of other taxa, with high species density in the wet tropics and in some, but not all, parts of the dry tropics. Uncertainty in model predictions appears to derive from the low amount of standardized sampling of ants in Asia, in Africa and in the most extreme (e.g. hottest) climates. Model residuals increase as a function of temperature. This suggests that our understanding of the drivers of ant diversity at high temperatures is incomplete, especially in hot and arid climates. In other words, our ignorance of how ant diversity relates to environment is greatest in those regions where most species occur - hot climates, both wet and dry. Main conclusions Our results have two important implications. First, temperature is necessary, but not sufficient, to explain fully the patterns of ant diversity. Second, our ability to predict ant diversity is weakest exactly where we need to know the most, the warmest regions of a warming world. This includes significant parts of the tropics and some of the most biologically diverse areas in the world.
3246748|One of the major issues confronting management of parks and reserves is the invasion of non-native plant species. Yosemite National Park is one of the largest and best-known parks in the United States, harbouring significant cultural and ecological resources. Effective management of non-natives would be greatly assisted by information on their potential distribution that can be generated by predictive modelling techniques. Our goal was to identify key environmental factors that were correlated with the percent cover of non-native species and then develop a predictive model using the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Production technique. We performed a series of analyses using community-level data on species composition in 236 plots located throughout the park. A total of 41 non-native species were recorded which occurred in 23.7% of the plots. Plots with non-natives occurred most frequently at low- to mid-elevations, in flat areas with other herbaceous species. Based on the community-level results, we selected elevation, slope, and vegetation structure as inputs into the GARP model to predict the environmental niche of non-native species. Verification of results was performed using plot data reserved from the model, which calculated the correct prediction of non-native species occurrence as 76%. The majority of the western, lower-elevation portion of the park was predicted to have relatively low levels of non-native species occurrence, with highest concentrations predicted at the west and south entrances and in the Yosemite Valley. Distribution maps of predicted occurrences will be used by management to: efficiently target monitoring of non-native species, prioritize control efforts according to the likelihood of non-native occurrences, and inform decisions relating to the management of non-native species in postfire environments. Our approach provides a valuable tool for assisting decision makers to better manage non-native species, which can be readily adapted to target non-native species in other locations.
3877714|Detailed knowledge of patterns of native species richness, an important component of biodiversity, and non-native species invasions is often lacking even though this knowledge is essential to conservation efforts. However, we cannot afford to wait for complete information on the distribution and abundance of native and harmful invasive species. Using information from counties well surveyed for plants across the USA, we developed models to fill data gaps in poorly surveyed areas by estimating the density (number of species km
4124759|Savannas are characterized by a sharp seasonality, in which the water shortage defines the community functioning. Hyperseasonal savannas, however, experience additionally waterlogging in the rainy season. Since waterlogging may cause local extinctions of intolerant species, we asked whether waterlogging constricts the phylogenetic structure of a hyperseasonal savanna. We studied a hyperseasonal cerrado, comparing it with a nearby seasonal cerrado, never waterlogged, in Emas National Park, central Brazil. In each vegetation form, we sampled all vascular plants by placing fifty 1-m
41242846|Aim We assess changes in plant species richness and changes in species dissimilarity at local scale in Swiss grassland between the time periods 2001-2004 and 2006-2009. Further, we provide an ecological interpretation of the observed taxonomic homogenization of vascular plants. Location Switzerland. Methods Changes in species richness and changes in Simpson dissimilarity index of vascular plants in grassland (meadows and pastures) were examined. The analyses were based on species lists recorded on 339 10-m sample plots from a systematic sample covering the entire Switzerland. Each sample plot had been surveyed once in 2001-2004 and once in 2006-2009 with 5 years between the first and the second survey. Changes in species dissimilarity were interpreted by comparing the relative contribution of several indicator species groups. Results Mean species richness of vascular plants in grassland increased during the study period. In contrast, species dissimilarity of plants decreased, suggesting local-scale floristic homogenization of grassland in Switzerland. It was mostly because of the spread of common species, namely the species that are tolerant to high nutrient levels, the species of low conservation value and the species adapted to moderate temperature levels that led to taxonomic homogenization. Target species for conservation did only marginally affect taxonomic homogenization. In contrast to the predictions from studies of taxonomic homogenization on larger scales, the taxonomic homogenization of grassland at local scale was not explained by the spread of neophytic species. Main conclusions The biotic diversity of grassland in Switzerland changed considerably between 2001-2004 and 2006-2009. The observed taxonomic homogenization was merely because of the spread of common species. Localscale changes in land use regimes implemented by agri-environmental schemes and other conservation efforts on parts of the entire grassland area were, apparently, not enough to prevent the total grassland from recent taxonomic homogenization.
4124763|We aim to show how a combination of molecular systematics and ecological niche modelling approaches can be used to test historical biogeographical hypotheses for species of conservation concern. We focus on the land snail genus Oreohelix (Oreohelicidae), a group found throughout the Rocky Mountains. In addition to its larger distribution, a group of Oreohelix is also found in the Black Hills of Wyoming and South Dakota, an isolated, easternmost extension of the Rocky Mountains. We determine the number, distribution, and relationships of Black Hills Oreohelicids, which are a current conservation concern due to their fragmented distribution. We compared Black Hills groups to those in the main part of the Rockies to test historical biogeographical patterns that explain current diversity. We collected mtDNA data (COI and 12S sequences) from multiple populations of Oreohelix throughout the Black Hills and in adjacent populations in the Rocky Mountains to construct phylogenetic hypotheses. To determine whether favourable environmental conditions currently exist between the Black Hills and the north-eastern Rocky Mountains, we used DesktopGARP to generate an ecological niche model for distinct lineages discovered in the molecular phylogenetic analysis. Results show that all Black Hills populations are likely Oreohelix cooperi and that little genetic differentiation exists within this clade. In addition, Black Hills groups are genetically similar or identical to populations found in the Judith Mountains and Bighorn Mountains (northeastern Rockies). Ecological niche models show that suitable environmental conditions may exist between eastern Rockies and Black Hills O. cooperi samples. Taken together, the phylogenetic and niche model data, along with the low vagility of the snails, support passive long-distance dispersal as a likely explanation for current arrangement of biodiversity.
3877717|We studied the distribution patterns of endemic ferns along an elevational gradient of 3400 m in Costa Rica, Central America. We related the endemism patterns of the whole species set and separated for life forms and microhabitats according to topography and environmental factors. Fern species were surveyed in 156 plots each with an area of
40390704|Aim Middle East brown bears (Ursus arctos syriacus Hemprich and Ehrenberg, 1828) are presently on the edge of extinction. However, little is known of their genetic diversity. This study investigates that question as well as that of Middle East brown bear relationships to surrounding populations of the species. Location Middle East region of south-western Asia. Methods We performed DNA analyses on 27 brown bear individuals. Twenty ancient bone samples (Late Pleistocene to 20th century) from natural populations and seven present-day samples obtained from captive individuals were analysed. Results Phylogenetic analyses of the mitochondrial sequences obtained from seven ancient specimens identify three distinct maternal clades, all unrelated to one recently described from North Africa. Brown bears from Iran exhibit striking diversity (three individuals, three haplotypes) and form a unique clade that cannot be linked to any extant one. Individuals from Syria belong to the Holarctic clade now observed in Eastern Europe, Turkey, Japan and North America. Specimens from Lebanon surprisingly appear as tightly linked to the clade of brown bears now in Western Europe. Moreover, we show that U. a. syriacus in captivity still harbour haplotypes closely linked to those found in ancient individuals. Main conclusion This study brings important new information on the genetic diversity of brown bear populations at the crossroads of Europe, Asia and Africa. It reveals a high level of diversity in Middle East brown bears and extends the historical distribution of the Western European clade to the East. Our analyses also suggest the value of a specific breeding programme for captive populations.
2673344|Patterns of vascular plant species diversity in high-altitude Ecuadorian ecosystems ('paramos') are examined. Data from two independent surveys were used: the first from 12 different locations and 192 samples, the other from 18 locations and 243 samples. These surveys included 348 and 284 species, respectively. The data confirmed the occurrence of two main zones in terms of vascular plant species diversity. The grass paramo and superparamo were distinguished by differences in plant cover, species richness, -diversity and -diversity. The transition between these two zones begins at around 4000 m. Grass paramo samples comprised more species but the strong dominance of tussock grasses resulted in low equitability compared with the superparamo, where safe sites for plant survival are limited and the environment does not permit continuous grass cover. Turnover of species across the altitudinal gradient is higher in the grass paramo than in the superparamo. This is due largely to agricultural fires at lower altitudes, which create a fine-scale mosaic of burned patches that enhances variability at this scale. Despite the loss of equitability, intermediate levels of fire disturbance appear to promote species richness within the samples. It is suggested that the complex patterns of paramo diversity in the Ecuadorian Andes are largely the outcome of three interrelated factors: altitude, disturbance and the availability of safe sites at the highest altitudes.
40604234|Aim We seek to demonstrate that whilst information derived from phylogeographic and landscape genetic approaches has been used broadly to further ecological and evolutionary hypothesis testing, it can also be used to further species modelling approaches, particularly where bioclimatic and demographic methodologies are to be combined to tackle climate change adaptation and conservation planning. Location General application. Methods We start with a review of species distribution modelling studies that have used data derived from molecular marker studies, and identify which parameters can realistically be derived from molecular marker studies for inclusion in species and ecosystem distribution prediction and conservation planning. Results We find that the uptake of phylogeographic and landscape genetic methods to inform species distribution modelling studies has to date been limited (particularly the latter approaches), despite offering clear potential to improve species modelling approaches that aim to combine climatic envelope and demographic parameters. Using a series of cases studies, we demonstrate that phylogeographic approaches can be particularly useful for identifying biogeographic barriers and refugia, testing alternative demographic models, identifying concordant demographic patterns between species within a single ecosystem and testing temporal niche conservatism. We also find that landscape genetic approaches are particularly useful for quantifying landscape permeability and source/sink dynamics of meta-populations and identifying adaptive variation in the landscape. A summary of parameters that are derivable from such studies for modelling and conservation applications is provided. Main conclusions Molecular marker methods have much to offer species distribution modelling, particularly in the field of climate adaptation. Molecular information can inform on species historical dynamics and contemporary demography necessary to advance species modelling paradigms that seek to integrate climatic and demographic drivers. Furthermore, recognizing diversity below species level and incorporating this information into modelling frameworks will enable conservation managers to plan for the capture of areas of evolutionary potential.
2999809|As a result of side effects of the accidental dispersal of the Cape honey bee, it has become of agroeconomic importance to delineate the region within South Africa where thelytokous worker honey bees occur so that apicultural movement of bees does not exacerbate the problem. Thelytokous workers are believed to be unique to Apis mellifera capensis, so that the problem is to find morphological markers distinguishing this race from its A. m. scutellata neighbours. However, no evidence of the expected hybrid zone demarcating races could be found. Factor analysis revealed only one spherical cluster of samples. Trend surfaces of the local mean morphometric factor scores showed a cline that paralleled latitude, with distortions relating to montane and continental effects. Discriminant function analysis implicated certain mountain ranges in amplifying the effects of latitude. Trend surfaces of local intercolony factor variance showed morphometric homogeneity across most of the country. We conclude that there is only a single population of honey bees in South Africa, and that it shows climate-correlated clinal variation. If the transportation of bees for commercial apiculture is to be successfully regulated to solve the `capensis calamity', further research should focus on the geographical distribution of thelytokous workers rather than on the capensis phenotype. Such workers have a wider distribution than capensis, occurring also at high frequencies around the type locality of A. m. scutellata.
20171950|The choice of surrogates of biodiversity is an important aspect in conservation biology. The quantification of the coincidence in the sptial patterns of species richness and rarity between different groups and the vulnerability of groups are different approaches frequently considered to accomplish this task. However, a more appropriate approach is to verify the efficiency of priority networks selected using information from one group of organisms to capture the biodiversity of other groups. Using a deconstructive approach, the main purposes of this study were to evaluate the performance of some orders and families of birds in the Cerrado biome (a savanna-like biome) as surrogates of other bird groups, in a pairwise analysis, and to investigate the characteristics of these groups that predict the efficiency in representation of other groups. We used biogeographical data on bird orders or families with more than 10 species that occur in the Brazilian Cerrado. The best surrogate group was the Thamnophilidae. Moreover, this group is not the most specious, favouring further survey efforts that are necessary to verify the conservation value of areas at suitable scales. The majority of the species from this family are dependent on forest habitats, one of the characteristics that most influenced representativeness level, probably due to the spatial distribution of these habitats throughout the Brazilian Cerrado. Beta diversity patterns of the different groups also affected representativeness, and our analyses showed that the networks selected by a surrogate group will be more effective in the representation of other groups of species if their patterns of beta diversity (not richness) are correlated.
2673405|Relatively easy measurable patch characteristics (especially habitat diversity measures) have proven to be valuable indicators of forest plant species richness in forest fragments of relatively undisturbed areas. Urban and suburban forest patches, however, are characterized by a specific landscape ecological context implying that specific processes may influence ecosystem functioning and hence that other abiotic indicators for plant diversity are more appropriate. We studied the relation between functional ecological plant species groups and suburban forest patch characteristics such as patch area, habitat diversity and isolation. Some components of species richness were related to the isolation of the patches. In contrast to previous similar large-scale fragmentation studies in more rural areas, further results stressed the overwhelming importance of patch area relative to habitat variables in determining species richness. This suggests (1) the occurrence of density-dependent species extinction processes in small forest patches; or (2) the existence of external deterministic factors which put a major constraint on species richness in small patches. We tend to support the latter hypothesis and propose forest disturbance and associated black cherry (Prunus serotina Ehrh.) invasion as such a possible external factor. Small forest patches may be more sensitive to disturbance and biological invasion due to various reasons. Hence large forest patches are to be preferred for plant conservation in the suburban area.
40604225|Aim The aim of this study is to determine whether changes to the seasonal and circadian timing of propagule release can a have a significant effect on the area covered by resulting aerial dispersal. Location Western Australia. Methods Using the atmospheric pollution model (TAPM), an existing mesoscale dispersal model, a range of release patterns was simulated and the resulting deposition compared. Comparisons were based on observations of deposition patterns and the calculated area of deposition. Results Small changes to the timing of propagule release were shown to significantly impact on the area experiencing deposition from the resulting aerial dispersal. Main conclusions Simulations performed in this study show that, for small propagules, changes to the timing of release can lead to alternate, clearly differentiable dispersal events. Small changes in both the seasonal and circadian patterns of release can have significant effects on the area thatexperiences deposition during the resulting dispersal event. This effect is particularly important at the landscape scale and when there is a need to quantify individual dispersal events. Predictive modelling of aerial dispersal needs to be undertaken with an understanding of the manner in which biological and environmental factors that affect the timing of propagule release can influence results. Results presented highlight the need to characterize the epidemiology of pathogenic organisms of importance to biosecurity as much as possible before they arrive.
3246836|This paper investigates the role of heterogeneity and speciation/extinction history in explaining variation in regional scale (c. 0.1-3000 km
4124758| Recent advances in molecular ecology allow better assessment of the role of ecological and evolutionary processes in determining the dynamics of genetic diversity in natural populations. The chukar partridge (Alectoris chukar) is abundant and continuously distributed in the mesic Mediterranean regions of Israel, becoming scarce and patchily distributed in the arid Negev Desert. This demographic transition occurs across a main environmental transition, the Northern Negev ecotone. Populations of chukars along this gradient have been shown to differ from other populations in morphology, bilateral asymmetry, and in allozyme variation. The aim of this study is to infer whether historical (i.e. secondary contact of formerly vicariant populations) or recurrent demographic events (i.e. restriction to gene flow across the ecotone) have shaped the observed patterns of genetic diversity in chukar populations in Israel. We analysed mtDNA control-region sequences in 216 chukars collected from 28 localities (five distinct geographical regions). Results show that (1) average haplotype diversity is high (h = 0.93) while haplotype divergence is low ( = 0.8%), suggesting that extant populations diversified recently; (2) mtDNA gene diversity does not significantly differ across the distribution range; and (3) haplotype distribution differs among the sampling locations (amova; P < 0.00031). Mantel test and autocorrelation analyses indicate that isolation-by-distance may explain the geographical partitioning of genetic diversity. These patterns have likely been produced by complex dynamics between past fragmentation of northern vs. intermediate and southern populations. Late Pleistocene climatic changes, fostering cycles of range contraction and expansion, may have led to genetic differentiation in allopatry, followed by restricted gene flow across secondary contact zones. 
3246744|According to Baker's Rule, plant species capable of uniparental reproduction are more likely to be successful colonists than are self-incompatible or dioecious species. Controlled pollination experiments carried out on 17 invasive alien plant species in South Africa revealed that 100% were either self-compatible or apomictic, and that 72% of these were capable of autonomous self pollination. The distribution of breeding systems among these invasive aliens is thus strongly skewed towards uniparental reproduction. While all 13 woody species in our survey showed a capacity for uniparental reproduction, this mode of reproduction is very rare among woody plants in general. Thus Baker's rule, which has generally been considered for short-lived herbaceous plants, may also apply to invasive shrubs and trees. The study species exhibited high levels of fruit set (median = 71.5%). Supplemental hand-pollination experiments carried out on five of the species showed that pollen availability did not limit fruit set. Further work is needed to establish the exact role of uniparental reproduction in various stages of the invasion process. In particular, we need to know whether uniparental reproduction provides reproductive assurance at the population establishment stage (as originally envisaged by Baker) or whether it plays a further role in alleviating pollen limitation in small and established populations.
41242815|Aim Long-distance dispersal is important for plant population dynamics at larger spatial scales, but our understanding of this phenomenon is mostly based on computer modelling rather than field data. This paper, by combining field data and a simulation model, quantifies the fraction of the seed of the alien species Heracleum mantegazzianum that needs to disperse over a long distance for successful invasion. Location Central Europe, Czech Republic. Methods To assess the role of random dispersal in long-term population dynamics of the studied species, we combined longitudinal data covering 50 years of the invasion of this plant from its very start, inferred from a series of aerial photographs of 60-ha plots, with data on population dynamics at a fine scale of 10-m plots. Results A simulation model based on field data indicates that the fraction of seed that is dispersed from source plants not described by the short-distance dispersal kernel ranges from 0.1 to 7.5% of the total seed set. The fraction of long-distance dispersed seed that provides the best prediction of the observed spread was significantly negatively correlated with the percentage of habitats suitable for invasion. Main conclusions Our results indicate that the fraction of seeds that needed to be dispersed over long distances to account for the observed invasion dynamics decreased with increasing proportion of invasible habitats, indicating that the spatial pattern of propagule pressure differs in landscapes prone to invasion. Long-distance dispersal is an important component of the population dynamics of an invasive species even at relatively small scales.
3246788|Succession after disturbances generates a mosaic of patches in different successional stages. The intermediate disturbance hypothesis predicts that intermediate disturbances lead to the highest diversity of these stages on a regional scale resulting in a hump-shaped diversity-disturbance curve. We tested this prediction using field data of forest succession and hypothetical succession scenarios in combination with analytical and simulation models. According to our study the main factors shaping the diversity-disturbance curve and the position of the diversity maximum were the transition times between the successional stages, the transition type, neighbourhood effects and the choice of diversity measure. Although many scenarios confirmed the intermediate disturbance hypothesis we found that deviations in the form of two diversity maximums were possible. Such bimodal diversity-disturbance curves occurred when early and late successional stages were separated by one or more long-lived (compared to the early stages) intermediate successional stages. Although the field data which met these conditions among all those tested were rare (one of six), the consequences of detecting two peaks are fundamental. The impact of disturbances on biodiversity can be complex and deviate from a hump-shaped curve.
2673347|Intensive interest in the alien flora of the Czech Republic stimulated one of the earliest attempts (in the early 1970s) to predict potential invaders of arable land. Another paper published recently by the same research team using the same methodology provides a relatively unique possibility to assess the success of these predictions after a quarter of a century. The predictions were successful for 39.3% of the 28 species included, while 60.7% of invasion cases must be considered as failures. Prediction was rather unsuccessful for the members of Asteraceae (14.3%), and more correct for annuals/biennials (45.5%) than for perennials (16.7%). No pattern was found with respect to the area of origin. The results indicate that past predictions based largely on intuition were less successful than modern prediction systems using the knowledge of a large number of characters and carried out using advanced computation methods. The correct identification of invaders using such systems reaches values between 61% and 91%.
20532088|Aims: The nested subset pattern has been widely studied in the last 20 years, and recent syntheses have challenged the prevalence of this pattern in nature. We examined the degree of nestedness, its temporal variability and its environmental correlates in stream insects of a boreal drainage system. We also examined differences between nested and idiosyncratic species in site occupancy, niche position and niche breadth. Location: Koutajoki drainage basin in northern Finland. Methods: We used (i) nestedness analyses with three null models for testing the significance of nestedness; (ii) Spearman rank correlation to examine the correlates of nestedness; (iii) outlying mean index analysis to analyse the niche characteristics of species; (iv) and t-test to examine differences in niche breadth, niche position and site occupancy of idiosyncratic and other nested species. Results: Stream insect assemblages were significantly nested in each of the three study years. The maximally packed matrices were significantly nested according to the nestedness calculator based on null models I (species frequencies and site richness equiprobable) and II (species frequencies fixed and site richness equiprobable), but non-significant based on a conservative null model III (species frequencies and site richness fixed to those of the observed matrix). The most important correlate of nestedness was stream size, whereas isolation, productivity (total phosphorus) and habitat heterogeneity exhibited non-significant relationship with nestedness. Idiosyncratic species occurred, on average, at more sites than nested species, mirroring the restricted distributions of several nested species that were inclined towards species-rich sites. Idiosyncratic and nested species also differed in niche position and niche breadth, with idiosyncratic species having, on average, less marginal niche positions and wider niches than nested species. Main conclusions: Stream size correlated with nestedness, possibly because small streams were inhabited only by species able to persist under, or colonize shortly after, disturbances, while most species could occur at larger sites where disturbances are less severe. From the conservation perspective, our findings suggest that stream size really matters, given that sites with high species richness and many rare species are more likely to occur in larger streams. However, also the requirements of idiosyncratic species should be accommodated in conservation planning.
2999799|Data on localities from which insectivorous bats were collected or sighted in Israel were compiled into a Geographical Information System (GIS) in order to analyse patterns of species distribution. By intersecting precipitation and temperature data with spatially-referenced data on species observations stored in the GIS we determined the `climatic envelope' of each species and constructed predictive maps which show the potential distribution of each species. Using cluster analysis, the bats were classified into three main biogeographic groups according to their distribution, namely desert, Mediterranean, and widespread in Israel. The potential distribution maps of all the species indicate that there are areas which have suitable bat habitats but from which bats have never been collected or observed. In the Mediterranean region of Israel, this is attributed to a large reduction in population size due to fumigation of caves, cave visitation and secondary poisoning.
20171967|We present methods for estimating the base proportion of introduced alien species that will naturalize, and the distribution of time until naturalization occurs. The approach is Bayesian, incorporating prior estimates of the probability of naturalization and the time from introduction to naturalization. A worked example uses data on the introduction and time to recorded naturalization of woody perennials introduced to South Australia. Up until 2007, 188 of 2230 (8.4%) woody perennials listed in nursery catalogues between 1843 and 1985 were recorded as having naturalized. If prior information on naturalization rates from elsewhere is ignored, the available data suggest that the most likely proportion of introduced plants that will naturalize is large (0.93) though uncertain (95% CI 0.51-0.99), with the corresponding mean time to recorded naturalization being protracted (522 years) and similarly uncertain (95% CI 360-678 years). Alternatively, if informative prior estimates of both the naturalization probability and the time to recorded naturalization are incorporated, the most likely probability of naturalization is estimated to be 18.6% (95% CI 15.5-23.4%). For those plants that do naturalize, the most likely value for the mean time from importation to recorded naturalization is 149 years (95% CI 130-174 years). Our results illustrate the potentially long timescale of the naturalization process, and the challenges this presents for obtaining accurate estimates of naturalization parameters.
4539943|Predicting the probability of successful establishment and invasion of alien species at global scale, by matching climatic and land use data, is a priority for the risk assessment. Both large- and local-scale factors contribute to the outcome of invasions, and should be integrated to improve the predictions. At global scale, we used climatic and land use layers to evaluate the habitat suitability for the American bullfrog Rana catesbeiana, a major invasive species that is among the causes of amphibian decline. Environmental models were built by using Maxent, a machine learning method. Then, we integrated global data with information on richness of native communities and hunting pressure collected at the local scale. Global-scale data allowed us to delineate the areas with the highest suitability for this species. Predicted suitability was significantly related to the invasiveness observed for bullfrog populations historically introduced in Europe, but did not explain a large portion of variability in invasion success. The integration of data at the global and local scales greatly improved the performance of models, and explained > 57% of the variance in introduction success: bullfrogs were more invasive in areas with high suitability and low hunting pressure over frogs. Our study identified the climatic factors entailing the risk of invasion by bullfrogs, and stresses the importance of the integration of biotic and abiotic data collected at different spatial scales, to evaluate the areas where monitoring and management efforts need to be focused.
4124754|There is evidence that, within a region, non-native species introduced from nearby sources (extralimital native) promote homogenization and non-native species introduced from distant sources (exotic) promote differentiation of species composition. A possible explanation for these associations is that they are related to differences in the distribution of geographical range size. We test this by examining geographical ranges, delineated within a defined region, for assemblages of vascular plants in eight urban floras in the USA. Across floras, native species had the largest, least variable ranges and the greatest proportion of shared species. Exotic species had the most variable ranges with concentrations of species with small and large ranges and the lowest proportion of shared species. Extralimital natives had concentrations of species with intermediate-sized ranges and intermediate proportions of shared species. These results suggest that patterns of compositional similarity were associated with the relative strength and equality of two opposing patterns within species range size distributions: species with small vs. large ranges. In general, concentrations of species with small ranges promoted low levels and concentrations of species with large ranges promoted high levels of compositional similarity. However, patterns documented for exotic species will likely continue to develop, possibly taking on new forms, depending on how geographical distributions and the rate of introductions of exotic species change over time. Our findings also suggest that processes underlying these patterns have operated at two spatiotemporal scales. The first scale reflects historical consequences of anthropogenic activities occurring within regional extents that have promoted the introduction of extralimital natives; the second scale reflects modern consequences of anthropogenic activities operating at an increasingly global extent that have promoted the introduction of exotic species.
41242857|Aim We set out to develop a temperature- and salinity-dependent mechanistic population model for copepods that can be used to understand the role of environmental parameters in population growth or decline. Models are an important tool for understanding the dynamics of invasive species; our model can be used to determine an organism's niche and explore the potential for invasion of a new habitat. Location Strait of Georgia, British Columbia, Canada. Methods We developed a birth rate model to determine the environmental niche for an estuarine copepod. We conducted laboratory experiments to estimate demographic parameters over a range of temperatures and salinities for Eurytemora affinis collected from the Nanaimo Estuary, British Columbia (BC). The parameterized model was then used to explore what environmental conditions resulted in population growth vs. decline. We then re-parameterized our model using previously published data for E. affinis collected in the Seine Estuary, France (SE), and compared the dynamics of the two populations. Results We established regions in temperature-salinity space where E. affinis populations from BC would likely grow vs. decline. In general, the population from BC exhibited positive and higher intrinsic growth rates at higher temperatures and salinities. The population from SE exhibited positive and higher growth rates with increasing temperature and decreasing salinity. These different relationships with environmental parameters resulted in predictions of complex interactions among temperature, salinity and growth rates if the two subspecies inhabited the same estuary. Main conclusions We developed a new mechanistic model that describes population dynamics in terms of temperature and salinity. This model may prove especially useful in predicting the potential for invasion by copepods transported to Pacific north-west estuaries via ballast water, or in any system where an ecosystem is subject to invasion by a species that shares demographic characteristics with an established (sub) species.
41242856|Aim High-latitude regions host many fewer non-native species than temperate ones. The low invasion loads of these colder regions may change with increases in human-mediated propagule supply. We test the hypothesis that colonization by non-native species that have already invaded temperate shorelines would be precluded by environmental conditions if they were introduced to Alaska and other high-latitude regions by shipping or other vectors. Location Pacific coast of North America as well as coastal oceans world-wide. Methods Using 16 habitat descriptors in ecological niche models, we characterized the conditions throughout the native and introduced distributions of four marine species (Amphibalanus improvisus, Carcinus maenas, Littorina saxatilis and Styela clava) that have invaded multiple global regions to test the extent to which suitable conditions for these species exist in Alaska and other high-latitude regions under current and predicted future climate scenarios. Results Models projected environmental match for all four species in many areas beyond their present range limits, suggesting that Alaska and other high-latitude shorelines are currently vulnerable to invasion by non-native species that occur in lower latitudes. Main conclusions Given current and possibly increasing human-mediated species transfers and suitable environmental conditions that exist now and with projected warming, policy and management efforts are urgently needed to minimize invasion opportunities at high latitudes.
3246882|Based on data collected during the National Wolf Census in 2000-01, we analysed the main habitat factors influencing the distribution and abundance of the wolf, Canis lupus, in northern Poland. The study region forms the western border of the continuous Eastern European range of wolves, although attempts at westward dispersal have been observed. Using Geographic Information System techniques, we measured nine habitat variables and three parameters related to wolf occurrence in 134 circular sample plots (radius 7 km, area 154 km
3877735|Ecosystem engineers are organisms able to modulate environmental forces and, hence, may change the habitat conditions for other species. In so doing, ecosystem engineers may affect both species richness and evenness of communities and, in consequence, change species diversity. If these changes in community attributes are related to the magnitude of the habitat changes induced by the engineers, it seems likely that engineer species will have greater effects on diversity in sites where they cause larger habitat changes. We addressed this issue by evaluating the effects of three alpine cushion plants on species richness, evenness, and diversity of high-Andean plant communities. Given that the difference in microclimatic conditions between cushions and the external environment increases with elevation, we proposed that these organisms should have greater effects on community attributes at higher than at lower elevation sites. Results showed that the three cushion species had positive effects on species richness, diversity, and evenness of plant communities. It was also observed that the magnitude of these effects changed with elevation: positive effects on species richness and diversity increased towards upper sites for the three cushions species, whereas positive effects on evenness increased with elevation for one cushion species but decreased with elevation for other two cushion species. These results suggest that the presence of cushions is important to maintain plant diversity in high-Andean communities, but this positive effect on diversity seems to increase as the difference in environmental conditions between cushions and the external environment increases with elevation.
2999798|In this study, we analysed a statewide species database together with a county-level geographic information system (GIS) to build a model based on well-surveyed areas to estimate species richness in less surveyed counties. The Illinois Plant Information Network (ILPIN), a species-based database on all the vascular flora of Illinois, contains county distributions (totalling nearly 90,000) for each taxon and information on the taxonomy, ecology, biology, and ecodistribution. We compiled a statewide database with 112 variables on climate, landuse (current and historic), landscape
4539963| Non-vascular plant distribution patterns were examined in three microhabitats along an altitudinal gradient on a recent lava flow of the Piton de la Fournaise volcano (La Runion, Mascarene archipelago). The uniform nature of the lava flow provides an excellent system to study the relationship between altitude and species diversity and distribution, and at the same time avoiding confusing multiple effects of substrate and vegetation heterogeneity. Non-vascular plants were surveyed with quadrats within an altitudinal range from 250 m to 850 m a.s.l. Fine-scale variations in bryophyte communities between three ecological microhabitats (the ground and on the rachises of two fern species) were investigated. Three specific questions were addressed: (1) What is the species diversity of bryophyte communities on a 19-year-old lava flow? (2) How does altitude influence the diversity and distribution of bryophytes on a lava flow? (3) Does microhabitat variation control bryophyte diversity? In our study, bryophyte diversity increased with altitude. Unexpectedly, species richness was very high; 70 species of bryophytes were recorded including nine new records for the island. Diversity was also controlled by ecological microhabitats. Bryophyte species were structured into six categories according to altitude and microhabitat preferences. Results suggested that the high diversity of these cryptic organisms on this lava flow is fostered in part by their host substrate and their adaptative strategies on new substrates. On a broader scale, it was concluded that lava flows as primary mineral environments are important to conserve, as they support a high diversity of pioneer organisms that constitute the early stages of the development of La Runion's remnant lowland rainforest. 
20172059|Aim: Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus), a shrub-steppe obligate species of western North America, currently occupies only half its historical range. Here we examine how broad-scale, long-term trends in landscape condition have affected range contraction. Location: Sagebrush biome of the western USA. Methods: Logistic regression was used to assess persistence and extirpation of greater sage-grouse range based on landscape conditions measured by human population (density and population change), vegetation (percentage of sagebrush habitat), roads (density of and distance to roads), agriculture (cropland, farmland and cattle density), climate (number of severe and extreme droughts) and range periphery. Model predictions were used to identify areas where future extirpations can be expected, while also explaining possible causes of past extirpations. Results: Greater sage-grouse persistence and extirpation were significantly related to sagebrush habitat, cultivated cropland, human population density in 1950, prevalence of severe droughts and historical range periphery. Extirpation of sage-grouse was most likely in areas having at least four persons per square kilometre in 1950, 25% cultivated cropland in 2002 or the presence of three or more severe droughts per decade. In contrast, persistence of sage-grouse was expected when at least 30 km from historical range edge and in habitats containing at least 25% sagebrush cover within 30 km. Extirpation was most often explained (35%) by the combined effects of peripherality (within 30 km of range edge) and lack of sagebrush cover (less than 25% within 30 km). Based on patterns of prior extirpation and model predictions, we predict that 29% of remaining range may be at risk. Main Conclusions: Spatial patterns in greater sage-grouse range contraction can be explained by widely available landscape variables that describe patterns of remaining sagebrush habitat and loss due to cultivation, climatic trends, human population growth and peripherality of populations. However, future range loss may relate less to historical mechanisms and more to recent changes in land use and habitat condition, including energy developments and invasions by non-native species such as cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) and West Nile virus. In conjunction with local measures of population performance, landscape-scale predictions of future range loss may be useful for prioritizing management and protection. Our results suggest that initial conservation efforts should focus on maintaining large expanses of sagebrush habitat, enhancing quality of existing habitats, and increasing habitat connectivity.
3246760|Amphibians and reptiles represent an important group of vertebrates in Mexico; on a global scale 10% of the biodiversity of these groups is found in the country, attaining extraordinarily high levels of endemism (60.7% and 53.7%, respectively). However, fewer than 20% of the known species of amphibians and reptiles in Mexico have been surveyed for helminths, so the inventory is far from complete. We assembled a data base that includes a total of 1246 records (entries) of which 460 correspond to helminths in amphibians and 786 to helminths in reptiles. In total, only 41 species of amphibians (14% of those occurring in Mexico) and only 118 species of reptiles (17% of those occurring in Mexico) have been studied for helminth parasites. From amphibians, 119 species of helminths belonging to 60 genera have been recorded, while 239 species of helminths representing 113 genera have been described from Mexican reptiles. One feature of the distribution of helminths of Mexican amphibians and reptiles is its asymmetry, as seen in representation of helminth groups, host groups and geographical range. However, such statistical asymmetry might be an artefact of sampling effort. Based on our data, we estimate that if all the herpetofauna of Mexico could be studied in the following years, approximately 827 additional species of helminths from amphibians and approximately 1403 from reptiles would be described.
41242786|Aim Geographic patterns of species distributions and the factors contributing to species endangerment are necessary for the development of integrative conservation strategies. Freshwater mussels Unionidae have among the highest levels of imperilment recorded in North America. This paper describes the biogeography and diversity of Unionidae along climate and habitat gradients in Texas, evaluates human impact, and identifies the hot spots of diversity and endemism that should be targeted for conservation. Location Texas, North America. Methods Unionids were surveyed in all major Texas river basins in 2003-2009. Multivariate statistics were used to test for differences in environmental parameters and among unionid assemblages in different bioprovinces, and to determine to what extent the multivariate pattern of species distribution was affected by environmental factors. To estimate human impact, we examined the relationship between human population density and the proportion of rare species, as well with the proportion of historically present species that persist in the watershed. Results Correlation between biotic and environmental similarity matrices indicated concordance in the differences among unionid assemblages and environmental factors that could cause these differences. Lake surface evaporation rate and percentage of forest cover in the watershed were among the most important parameters explaining the differences in unionid assemblages. Human population density was negatively correlated with the proportion of rare species. The proportion of species found live relative to the total number of live and relic species found in our surveys and to the number of historically known species decreased with the increase in human population density. Main conclusions Climate, landscape, geology, and land use type were important factors influencing unionid distribution patterns among biotic provinces. Increased human population density was associated with the loss of rare species over several decades, but this loss was not recognized because of a lack of assessing the conservation status of unionids.
41242833|Aim Many Australian Acacia species have been widely planted around the world. Some taxa are among the most aggressive of invasive alien plants and cause severe ecosystem degradation. We aimed to predict invasiveness of taxa in a large set of Australian Acacia species on the basis of easy-to-assess predictors. Location Global. Methods We considered three groups of predictors: (1) climatic affinities of species in their native ranges; (2) life history traits; and (3) human usage factors. Logistic multiple regressions were applied to construct predictive models for 85 Australian acacias (species in Acacia subgenus Phyllodineae) that are known to have been transported outside of their native range (17 known to be invasive and 68 non-invasive). The best model was then applied to predict the probability of an additional 34 Acacia species with unknown invasive status. Results Water availability in the native range and human uses were significant predictors of invasiveness in all models. Life history index (proportional to plant height, leaf area and seed mass) and climatic amplitude were also positive predictors of invasiveness when human use was not considered. The best model, based on human uses and water availability, correctly classified 92% of the species. Results suggest that Acacia species that evolved under low climatic stress have a greater chance of becoming invasive. Main conclusions Species that are useful to humans are more likely to be disseminated to and within new regions, thus increasing the risk of invasion. Combining ecological, evolutionary and human-use criteria is useful for quantifying the risk of Australian acacias becoming invasive. Acacia species can attain invasive status by virtue of intrinsic traits and/or through increased use by humans. Therefore, we predict that the invasion risk of species coming from native areas with high water availability will rise sharply if the interest in exploiting these species increases.
2673290|Sponge communities on inclined cliff surfaces (40<sup></sup>) at Lough Hyne Marine Nature Reserve, Co. Cork, Ireland were sampled at five sites (four inside the lough and one on the adjacent Atlantic coast). Each site varied in sedimentation rate and flow regime. Sites ranged from turbulent (with negligible sedimentation) to very low flow (< 3 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and highly sedimented regimes. Sponge species showed variation between sites and depth. The greatest difference in sponge communities was observed between the most turbulent and most sedimented sites. The distinct zonation patterns, present at all sites, were most pronounced at the highly sedimented sites. Encrusting forms constituted a high proportion of the sponges at all sites. However encrusting species found at the turbulent site were different to those at the sedimented sites. Arborescent species were common, mainly at the sedimented sites within Lough Hyne. Distributions of sponge species are considered with respect to morphological adaptation, competition and physiological adaptation. The distributions of sponge species on inclined surfaces are also compared with those on vertical cliff faces.
3696847|Fossil pollen data from sediment cores may be used as a measure for past plant diversity. According to the theory of probability, palynological richness is positively related to the pollen count. In a low pollen count, only common taxa are detected, whereas rare taxa are only detected by chance. The detection of all pollen taxa requires a very high pollen count, which is time-consuming. In regular palynological investigations, the detected richness in pollen spectra varies with the pollen count. Rarefaction analysis estimates palynological richness in an exactly equal-sum count for all samples, so that comparison between samples is meaningful. However, the over-representation of some taxa suppresses the detection probability of rare taxa; low total pollen abundance in a sample enhances the detection probability of rare taxa and long-distance transported pollen grains. These factors bias the observed palynological richness and distort comparisons. Palynological richness in a pollen count proportional to its pollen influx may be one proxy for reconstructing diversity trends through time. The use of this proxy overcomes most problems encountered in rarefaction analysis, but is constrained by inaccuracy in estimating pollen influx due to the imprecise time control of sediment cores. Estimating palynological richness by mathematical methods may be another way of reconstructing pollen diversity. Pollen data tend to reflect diversity on a regional scale. Sites from small basins have the advantage of recording diversity at both local and regional scales, if the detection of each taxon is independent. By associating one site from a large basin with a series of sites from very small basins (e.g. forest-hollows), information about both regional and local diversity may be obtained. Entomophilous pollen taxa may have to be measured using a different strategy than anemophilous taxa.
3246792|Alien invasions typically reduce species richness of habitats, but few studies have examined their effects on species turnover, the difference in species composition between localities. Agropyron cristatum (L.) Gaertn. (crested wheat grass) has been planted on 6-10 million ha of North American prairie, and is invading native prairie. We studied the invasion of A. cristatum into native prairie by measuring species composition along a gradient from maximum to minimum A. cristatum abundance. As A. cristatum increased, the abundance of most common native species decreased, but one appeared to be unaffected (Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K.) Lag.), and another (Poa sandbergii Vasey) increased. The effect of A. cristatum on species turnover was investigated by examining species-area curves for areas from 0.5 m
4539907|Dreissenid mussels (the zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha and the quagga mussel Dreissena bugensis) have invaded lakes and rivers throughout North America and Europe, where they have been linked to dramatic changes in benthic invertebrate community diversity and abundance. Through a meta-analysis of published data from 47 sites, we developed statistical models of Dreissena impact on benthic macroinvertebrates across a broad range of habitats and environmental conditions. The introduction of Dreissena was generally associated with increased benthic macroinvertebrate density and taxonomic richness, and with decreased community evenness (of taxa excluding Dreissena). However, the strength of these effects varied with sediment particle size across sites. The effects of Dreissena differed among taxonomic and functional groups of macroinvertebrates, with positive effects on the densities of scrapers and predators, particularly leeches (Hirudinea), flatworms (Turbellaria), and mayflies (Ephemeroptera). Gastropod densities increased in the presence of Dreissena, but large-bodied snail taxa tended to decline. Dreissena was associated with declines in the densities sphaeriid clams and other large filter-feeding taxa, as well as burrowing amphipods (Diporeia spp.), but had strong positive effects on gammarid amphipods. These patterns are robust to variation in the methodology of primary studies. The effects of Dreissena are remarkably concordant with those of ecologically similar species, suggesting universality in the interactions between introduced byssally attached mussels and other macroinvertebrates.
3246710|Senecio inaequidens DC. (Asteraceae) is an invasive alien plant introduced to Europe from South Africa in around 1896. It contains pyrrolizidine alkaloids that are toxic to livestock and humans. S. inaequidens would therefore be an economic and ecological problem if it became established and abundant in natural or farmed grassland ecosystems. We conducted field experiments using a split-plot design to determine the effects of rabbit grazing, interspecific plant competition, mollusc and insect herbivory on growth, survival and reproduction of S. inaequidens. Plants were grown from seeds of three different ecotypes under standardized greenhouse conditions and transplanted into field plots. Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus L.) were excluded from experimental plots using rabbit fences. Competition was manipulated by either creating subplots with bare ground or leaving the vegetation cover intact. Data were recorded between June and August 2002. Ecotypes differed significantly in morphological parameters, and in their responses to invertebrate herbivory. Interspecific plant competition and rabbit grazing significantly reduced growth and reproduction of S. inaequidens. Regrowth shoots of S. inaequidens produced after rabbit grazing were not subsequently eaten by rabbits. Unpalatability of regrowth shoots may be attributable to changes in pyrrolizidine alkaloid composition with plant age. Mollusc herbivory significantly reduced the number of capitulae produced. We found adults of Longitarsus jacobaeae Waterhouse (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), a specialist herbivore of European Senecio jacobaea L. (Asteraceae), feeding on 79% of S. inaequidens plants. 320 larvae of Tyria jacobaeae L. (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae) did not feed on S. inaequidens under free-choice field conditions. We conclude that S. inaequidens is able to survive and reproduce in disturbed grassland ecosystems. L. jacobaeae might be a suitable agent for biological control of S. inaequidens in European introduced populations in the future.
4539974| In order to assess the potential for molluscan conservation of a protected area considered representative of regional megafauna, we sampled molluscs inside and outside Lop National Park in Gabon. In the northern part of Lop National Park, 116 stations were surveyed and 71 species collected. Outside the park, 37 stations yielded 96 species, including 71 in Lastoursville, a small limestone area where molluscs are significantly more abundant than in other collecting sites. Lastoursville is among the richest sites known for molluscs in Africa. Overlap between sampling areas was limited, with 20.0% of the species found only in Lop National Park, and 40.8% of the species found only outside. This suggests that Lop National Park does not protect the whole molluscan diversity of central Gabon. Given the high levels of allopatric diversity of tropical land snails, conservation strategies cannot be the same for snails and for wide-ranging vertebrates. Protecting small areas with a high abundance and diversity of molluscs would be less expensive and as efficient for molluscan conservation as protecting large tracts of rainforest. Despite limited general knowledge of central African molluscs, robust estimates of site-specific diversity can be produced. Limestone areas harbour a remarkable biodiversity: sites such as Lastoursville would be ideal candidates for small protected areas dedicated to the conservation of land snails, and would complement the role of large protected areas. 
40390768|Aim The objective of conservation planning is often to prioritize patches based on their estimated contribution to metapopulation or metacommunity viability. The contribution that an individual patch makes will depend on its intrinsic characteristics, such as habitat quality, as well as its location relative to other patches, its connectivity. Here we systematically evaluate five patch value metrics to determine the importance of including an estimate of habitat quality into the metrics. Location We tested the metrics in landscapes designed to represent different degrees of variability in patch quality and different levels of patch aggregation. Methods In each landscape, we simulated population dynamics using a spatially explicit, continuous time metapopulation model linked to within patch logistic growth models. We tested five metrics that are used to estimate the contribution that a patch makes to metapopulation viability: two versions of the probability of connectivity index, two versions of patch centrality (a graph theory metric) and the metapopulation capacity metric. Results All metrics performed best in environments where patch quality was very variable and high quality patches were aggregated. Metrics that incorporated some measure of patch quality did better in all environments, but did particularly well in environments with high variance of patch quality and spatial aggregation of good quality patches. Main conclusions Including an estimate of patch quality significantly increased the ability of a given connectivity metric to rank correctly habitat patches according to their contribution to metapopulation viability. Incorporating patch quality is particularly important in landscapes where habitat quality is highly variable and good quality patches are spatially aggregated. However, caution should be used when applying patch metrics to homogeneous landscapes, even if good estimates of patch quality are available. Our results demonstrate that landscape structure and the degree of variability in patch quality need to be assessed prior to selecting a suitable method for estimating patch value.
2673389|The distribution and rate of spread of the introduced weed bridal creeper, Asparagus asparagoides (L.) Wight, were calculated from the results of a questionnaire that was distributed to landholders in the south-west of Western Australia. The weed was associated with regions that receive more than 350 mm of annual rainfall. There was a weak association between properties that had a longer history of disturbance through clearing of native vegetation and the presence of A. asparagoides. On a local scale, the questionnaire indicated that the rate of spread of A. asparagoides peaked at 0.6 m/yr of radial spread for patches of 10m<sup>2</sup>. The rate of spread of A. asparagoides on a regional scale was calculated as 0.09 postcode regions per year. While 50% of respondents indicated that they attempted to control the weed, only 20% of land managers on neighbouring properties (usually roadside reserves) were involved in some type of weed control. The level of weed control also influenced rates of spread calculated for weed patches for the two groups. Asparagus asparagoides was not ranked highly as a weed by landholders, whereas government officials surveyed considered it the most important environmental weed.
40390753|Aim To predict how the bioclimatic envelope of the broad-headed snake (BHS) (Hoplocephalus bungaroides) may be redistributed under future climate warming scenarios. Location South-eastern New South Wales, Australia. Methods We used 159 independent locations for the species and 35 climatic variables to model the bioclimatic envelope for the BHS using two modelling approaches -BIOCLIM and MAXENT. Predictions were made under current climatic conditions and we also predicted the species distribution under low and high climate change scenarios for 2030 and 2070. Results Broad-headed snakes currently encompass their entire bioclimatic envelope. Both modelling approaches predict that suitable climate space for BHS will be lost to varying degrees under both climate warming scenarios, and under the worst case, only 14% of known snake populations may persist. Main conclusions Areas of higher elevation within the current range will be most important for persistence of this species because they will remain relatively moist and cool even under climate change and will match the current climate envelope. Conservation efforts should focus on areas where suitable climate space may persist under climate warming scenarios. Long-term monitoring programs should be established both in these areas and where populations are predicted to become extirpated, so that we can accurately determine changes in the distribution of this species throughout its range.
4124773|Weed eradication programs often require 10 years or more to achieve their objective. It is important that progress is evaluated on a regular basis so that programs that are 'on track' can be distinguished from those that are unlikely to succeed. Earlier research has addressed conformity of eradication programs to the delimitation criterion. In this paper evaluation in relation to the containment and extirpation criteria is considered. Because strong evidence of containment failure (i.e. spread from infestations targeted for eradication) is difficult to obtain, it generally will not be practicable to evaluate how effective eradication programs are at containing the target species. However, chronic failure of containment will be reflected in sustained increases in cumulative infested area and thus a failure to delimit a weed invasion. Evaluating the degree of conformity to the delimitation and extirpation criteria is therefore sufficient to give an appraisal of progress towards the eradication objective. A significant step towards eradication occurs when a weed is no longer readily detectable at an infested site, signalling entry to the monitoring phase. This transition will occur more quickly if reproduction is prevented consistently. Where an invasion consists of multiple infestations, the monitoring profile (frequency distribution of time since detection) provides a summary of the overall effectiveness of the eradication program in meeting the extirpation criterion. Eradication is generally claimed when the target species has not been detected for a period equal to or greater than its seed longevity, although there is often considerable uncertainty in estimates of the latter. Recently developed methods, which take into consideration the cost of continued monitoring vs. the potential cost of damage should a weed escape owing to premature cessation of an eradication program, can assist managers to decide when to terminate weed eradication programs.
4124764|In order to study the influence of dispersal ability on community structure of ground beetles (carabidae), 15 lake islands and 2 mainland sites of the lake Mamry archipelago, northern Poland, were sampled by using pitfall traps. Of the 71 ground beetle species detected, 47 were macropterous, 16 wing-dimorphic and 8 brachypterous. Macropterous species had lower site abundances and occupied fewer sites than dimorphic and brachypterous species. There were trends from macropterous to brachypterous species towards a nested distribution across the sites and towards over-dispersed (aggregated) species co-occurrences. Canonical correspondence analysis pointed to site isolation and area as main factors influencing site abundance and spatial distribution. Our results imply that further studies on species co-occurrences and community assembly have to consider dispersal ability as a key element influencing ecological distributions at the regional scale.
3246876|The traditional approach to understanding invasions has focused on properties of the invasive species and of the communities that are invaded. A well-established concept is that communities with higher species diversity should be more resistant to invaders. However, most recently published field data contradict this theory, finding instead that areas with high native plant diversity also have high exotic plant diversity. An alternative environment-based approach to understanding patterns of invasions assumes that native and exotic species respond similarly to environmental conditions, and thus predicts that they should have similar patterns of abundance and diversity. Establishment and growth of native and exotic species are predicted to vary in response to the interaction of plant growth rates with the frequency and intensity of mortality-causing disturbances. This theory distinguishes between the probability of establishment and the probability of dominance, predicting that establishment should be highest under unproductive and undisturbed conditions and also disturbed productive conditions. However, the probability of dominance by exotic species, and thus of potential negative impacts on diversity, is highest under productive conditions. The theory predicts that a change in disturbance regime can have opposite effects in environments with contrasting levels of productivity. Manipulation of productivity and disturbance provides opportunities for resource managers to influence the interactions among species, offering the potential to reduce or eliminate some types of invasive species.
3246705|Long-distance seed dispersal is generally assumed to be important for the regional survival of plant species. In this study, we quantified the importance of long-distance seed dispersal for regional survival of plant species using wind dispersal as an example. We did this using a new approach, by first relating plant species' dispersal traits to seed dispersal kernels and then relating the kernels to regional survival of the species. We used a recently developed and tested mechanistic seed dispersal model to calculate dispersal kernels from dispersal traits. We used data on 190 plant species and calculated their regional survival in two ways, using species distribution data from 36,800 1 km<sup>2</sup>-grid cells and 10,754 small plots covering the Netherlands during the largest part of the 20th century. We carried out correlation and stepwise multiple regression analyses to quantify the importance of long-distance dispersal, expressed as the 99-percentile dispersal distance of the dispersal kernels, relative to the importance of median-distance dispersal and other plant traits that are likely to contribute to the explanation of regional survival: plant longevity (annual, biennial, perennial), seed longevity, and plant nutrient requirement. Results show that long-distance dispersal plays a role in determining regional survival, and is more important than median-distance dispersal and plant longevity. However, long-distance dispersal by wind explains only 1-3% of the variation in regional survival between species and is equally important as seed longevity and much less important than nutrient requirement. In changing landscapes such as in the Netherlands, where large-scale eutrophication and habitat destruction took place in the 20th century, plant traits indicating ability to grow under the changed, increasingly nutrient-rich conditions turn out to be much more important for regional survival than seed dispersal.
2673395|There is evidence from the fossil record to suggest that latitudinal gradients in taxonomic diversity may be time-invariant features, although almost certainly not on the same scale as that seen at the present day. It is now apparent that both latitudinal and longitudinal gradients increased dramatically in strength through the Cenozoic era (i.e. the last 65 my) to become more pronounced today than at any time in the geological past. Present-day taxonomic diversity gradients, in both the marine and terrestrial realms, are underpinned by the tropical radiations of a comparatively small number of species-rich clades. Quite why these particular taxa proliferated through the Cenozoic is uncertain, but it could be that at least part of the explanation involves the phenomenon of evolutionary escalation. This is, in essence, a theory of biological diversification through evolutionary feedback mechanisms between predators and prey; first one develops an adaptive advantage, and then the other. However, there may also have been some form of extrinsic control on the process of tropical diversification, and this was most likely centred on the phenomenon of global climate change. This is especially so over the last 15 my Various Late Cenozoic (Neogene) vicariant events effectively partitioned the tropics into a series of high diversity centres, or foci. It has been suggested that, in the largest of these in the marine realm (the Indo-West Pacific or IWP centre), a critical patterns of islands acted as a template for rapid speciation during glacioeustatic sea level cycles. The same process occurred in the Atlantic, Caribbean and East Pacific (ACEP) centre, though on a lesser scale. Tropical terrestrial diversity may also have been promoted by rapid range expansions and contractions in concert with glacial cycles (a modified refugium hypothesis). We are beginning to appreciate that an integrated sequence of Neogene tectonic and climatic events greatly influenced the formation of contemporary taxonomic diversity patterns.
3246781| The presence and impacts of non-indigenous species (NIS) in marine areas of high conservation or World Heritage significance have rarely been examined. Case studies worldwide suggest that the potential exists for the introduction of NIS to significantly impact conservation values in regions conserved for the uniqueness and diversity of native assemblages. In this study, a preliminary investigation was conducted to provide information essential for managing marine introductions in the Shark Bay World Heritage Property. A focused fouling plate survey sampled a total of 112 encrusting taxa, of which 10 (11.2%) were classified as introduced and 10 others as cryptogenic. Eight introduced bryozoans: Aetea anguina (Linnaeus, 1758), Bugula neritina (Linnaeus, 1758), Bugula stolonifera Ryland, 1960, Conopeum seurati (Canu, 1928), Savignyella lafontii (Audouin, 1826), Schizoporella errata (Waters, 1878), Watersipora subtorquata (d'Orbigny, 1842) and Zoobotryon verticellatum della Chiaje, 1828; one tunicate, Styela plicata Lesueur, 1823; and an introduced hydroid, Obelia dichotoma (Linnaeus, 1758) were frequent, and in some cases dominant, components of encrusting communities. Of the 20 most frequently occurring species detected in the Bay, four were introduced and of the 20 species with highest average percent cover per plate, six were introduced. At one site, space occupation by NIS averaged 71.6%  7.4 of plate live cover. Space occupation by an individual NIS was as high as 62.4% of plate area (mean 7.82%  1.8). NIS were detected at sites lacking commercial traffic and ballast water discharge and isolated by distance and physical environment, suggesting that hull fouling of recreational craft may be the most important vector in the region. Seventy-five percent of NIS detected in Shark Bay are established in Australian ports to the south of Shark Bay, while 33% are established to the north, tentatively implicating temperate affinity NIS and the movement of vessels from Australian ports south of Shark Bay as a greater risk to the region. 
3696878| Several studies have reported glacial refugia and migration pathways for different pine species in the Iberian Peninsula, all of them based on a single-species approach. In this paper, chloroplast microsatellites (cpSSRs) are used to compare population genetic structure and diversity estimates for interspecific pairs of populations located along a cline from southwestern (latitude 3632'/N, longitude 517'W) to northeastern Spain (latitude 4214' N, longitude 247' E) in two widely distributed Mediterranean pines, Pinus halepensis Mill. and Pinus pinaster Ait. Some cpSSRs were shared between species, facilitating comparison of levels of gene diversity at the species level and inferences about within and among species differentiation. P. pinaster showed a much higher number of variants (29) and haplotypes (69) than P. halepensis (20 and 21, respectively). Moreover, genetic diversity estimates for interspecific pairs of populations along the cline were negatively correlated. Three main causes may explain the differences between species in the present-day distribution of genetic diversity: (1) the distribution of genetic variability before the Quaternary glaciations, with an earlier presence of P. pinaster in the Iberian Peninsula and a late spread of P. halepensis from eastern and central Europe, (2) the location of the Holocene glacial refugia and the migration pathways from these refugia to the present-day range (from northeast to southwest in P. halepensis and from southwest to northeast and northwest in P. pinaster) and (3) the interactions between species during the postglacial spread. 
20532093|Aim: Since ecological and evolutionary context changes when a plant species is introduced to a new area, it can be assumed that responses of alien plants to changing conditions along environmental gradients differ from those in their native range. Even if seed availability is not limited, the distribution of alien plants along such a gradient might still be restricted by their ability to germinate and establish as seedlings. In the present study, we aim at testing what factors promote or limit plant invasions during early establishment by using altitude as a model gradient. Location: Altitudinal gradients in the Wallowa Mountains (Oregon, USA) and the Swiss Alps (Valais, Switzerland). Methods: In transplant experiments along altitudinal gradients, we investigated the early establishment success of eight invasive alien Asteraceae species in their native and introduced ranges in the Wallowa Mountains and the Swiss Alps. Results: Seedling recruitment was not restricted to relatively lower altitudes in the introduced range. In addition, we found no evidence for genetic adaptation along the altitudinal gradient in the introduced range, highlighting the importance of phenotypic flexibility for invasions. Furthermore, seedling recruitment was only enhanced by disturbance in the native range where vegetation was comparably dense but not in the introduced range. However, plant development was strongly delayed in the introduced range, probably due to low seasonal water availability. Main Conclusions: We conclude that introduced plants, due to their ability to tolerate a wide range of environmental conditions, are not necessarily more restricted in their altitudinal limits than they are in their native range. Furthermore, due to other interacting factors (e.g. different competition situations among ranges), attempts to predict distributions of alien plants in the introduced range that are based on their distributions in the native range may be misleading.
41242796|Aim Dispersal distances of insect pollinators are critical in defining their contribution to landscape-wide pollen movement and ultimately gene flow in natural and agricultural systems. We ask whether bee and fly pollinator taxa differ in their dispersal distances and transport of viable pollen in a human-modified system. Location Canterbury and Otago region, South Island, New Zealand. Methods We captured pollen-carrying insects travelling outside of a model mass-flowering agricultural crop, Brassica rapa, using insect flight intercept traps at five distances (0, 100, 200, 300 and 400 m) from the pollen source. We examined pollen loads and pollen viability to determine whether pollen transport distance and viability differ among pollinator taxa. Results A total of 5453 insects were collected of which 717 individuals from 26 insect taxa were positively identified as dispersing pollen up to 400 m from the source. These taxa consisted of four species from two bee families (Hymenoptera: Apidae and Halictidae), and eight species from four fly families (Diptera: Bibiondae, Stratiomyidae, Syrphidae and Tachinidae). Apidae generally carried higher pollen loads and more viable pollen than most fly taxa. Taxa in the fly families Stratiomyidae and Syrphidae, however, carried pollen to 400 m, which is further than both bee families. Main conclusions A diverse array of wild and managed flower visitors can transport viable pollen from a pollen source to at least 400 m. Knowledge of the differences in transport distances among generalist pollinators in human-modified environments is crucial to understand the potential extent to which (1) pollen transport can facilitate gene flow and (2) unwanted hybridization may occur between crops and related weeds.
20532073|Aim: Recent studies using vegetation plots have demonstrated that habitat type is a good predictor of the level of plant invasion, expressed as the proportion of alien to all species. At local scale, habitat types explain the level of invasion much better than alien propagule pressure. Moreover, it has been shown that patterns of habitat invasion are consistent among European regions with contrasting climates, biogeography, history and socioeconomic background. Here we use these findings as a basis for mapping the level of plant invasion in Europe. Location: European Union and some adjacent countries. Methods: We used 52,480 vegetation plots from Catalonia (NE Spain), Czech Republic and Great Britain to quantify the levels of invasion by neophytes (alien plant species introduced after AD 1500) in 33 habitat types. Then we estimated the proportion of each of these habitat types in CORINE land-cover classes and calculated the level of invasion for each class. We projected the levels of invasion on the CORINE land-cover map of Europe, extrapolating Catalonian data to the Mediterranean bioregion, Czech data to the Continental bioregion, British data to the British Isles and combined Czech-British data to the Atlantic and Boreal bioregions. Results: The highest levels of invasion were predicted for agricultural, urban and industrial land-cover classes, low levels for natural and semi-natural grasslands and most woodlands, and the lowest levels for sclerophyllous vegetation, heathlands and peatlands. The resulting map of the level of invasion reflected the distribution of these land-cover classes across Europe. Main conclusions: High level of invasion is predicted in lowland areas of the temperate zone of western and central Europe and low level in the boreal zone and mountain regions across the continent. Low level of invasion is also predicted in the Mediterranean region except its coastline, river corridors and areas with irrigated agricultural land.
41058170|Aim Plant communities across the temperate zone are changing in response to successional processes and human-induced disturbances. Here, we assess how upland forest under- and overstorey community composition has changed along an edaphic gradient. Location Northern Wisconsin, USA. Methods Forest sites initially sampled in the 1950s were resampled for overstorey composition and diversity, basal area, and understorey composition and diversity. We used clustering methods to identify groups of stands based on overstorey composition, and we used similarity indices, ordination and diversity indices to evaluate changes in species abundance and overall community structure. Results Sites clustered into four overstorey groups along the edaphic gradient: 'hemlock' sites dominated by hemlock in 1950, 'mesic' sites dominated by northern hardwoods, 'dry' sites with a significant pine inclusion in the canopy and diverse 'dry-mesic' sites in the middle. Collectively, forests gained maple, ash and cherry while losing pines, birches and red oaks. The hemlock forest sites gained hardwoods, while the dry-mesic sites shifted towards a more mesic hardwood composition. Only the driest sites have remained relatively stable in species composition. Main conclusions These trends reflect both 'mesification' and homogenization among northern forests. Highly diverse mid-gradient and mesic hemlockdominated stands are transitioning to maple dominance. Fire suppression may be favouring invasions of more mesic plants into historically drier sites, while high deer abundance likely limits hemlock regeneration. If current trends continue, maples will dominate the majority of northern forests, with significant losses of local native species richness and substantial shifts in understorey composition.
3246862|Exotic grasses are a serious threat to biodiversity in the cerrado savannas of central Brazil. Of particular concern is the possible role they may have in impeding tree regeneration at gallery (riverine) forest edges and increasing fire intensity, thereby driving gallery forest retreat. Here we quantify the effect of roads and distance from gallery forests on the abundance of the African grass Melinis minutiflora Beauv. and test for an effect of this species on woody plant regeneration and leaf area index. Melinis was present at approximately 70% of the sites near gallery forest edges, with its frequency declining sharply at greater distances from the edge. Melinis frequency was 2.8 times greater where roads were present nearby. Leaf area index (LAI) of the ground layer was 38% higher where Melinis was present than where it was absent. LAI was strongly correlated to fine fuel mass (r
20532103|Aim: We aim to assess the impact of forest fragmentation on lepidopteran larval community and study the associations of microclimate and tree community with lepidopteran assemblage. Location: Kibale National Park, Uganda. Methods: We investigated the effects of forest fragmentation on leaf herbivory, density of lepidopteran caterpillars, species richness and diversity as well as the composition of herbivorous lepidopteran larval community. Microclimate, size of the fragment, distance to the continuous forest, and tree diversity were studied as possible explanatory factors. We sampled 10 Neoboutonia macrocalyx Pax. (Euphorbiaceae) trees in each fragment during dry and rainy season, total of four times, in a year to cover the seasonal variation. Results: The rates of herbivory, total larval density and species richness were significantly lower in the forest fragments than in the continuous forest but species diversity expressed as Fisher's alpha did not differ. The dominance structure and community composition of the larval communities in the fragments was different from that of the continuous forest. None of the differences we observed were related to the fragment area or distance to the continuous forest. Instead, we found an indication of association between the herbivore and the tree communities. The fragments had significantly lower humidity during most of the day and higher temperature during the afternoons (14-17 h), which might partially explain the differences in lepidopteran larval communities. Main conclusions: Decreased larval density and species richness as well as differences in the community composition and structure all highlight the importance of large continuous forest areas for maintaining larval biodiversity.
40800782|Aim Species in the tropics respond to global warming by altitudinal distribution shifts. Consequences for biodiversity may be severe, resulting in lowland attrition, range-shift gaps, range contractions and extinction risks. We aim to identify plant groups (growth forms, families, endemic status) with higher than average risks. Location South Ethiopian highlands. Methods Based on observational data from mainly unexplored and remote mountain regions, we applied a published model to project the consequences of an upward shift of thermal site conditions on the altitudinal distribution of 475 plant species. Annual average temperature increases of up to 5 C were evaluated. Differences between groups of species were analysed by a permutation procedure and Generalized Linear Models. Results Because of a limited regional species pool, even mild warming is projected to create strong potential risks concerning lowland attrition, i. e. the net loss of species richness because of upward range shifts in the absence of new species arriving. Likewise, many species are expected to face range-shift gaps, i.e. the absence of an overlap between future and current altitudinal ranges already under mild warming scenarios. Altitudinal contractions and mountain-top extinctions will potentially become important when warming exceeds 3.5 C. Mean area per species is projected to decline by 55% for the A2 emissions scenario (+ 4.2  C until 2100) because of the physical shape of the mountains. Higher than average vulnerability is expected for endemic species as well as for herbs and ferns. Plant families that are especially threatened are identified. Main conclusions Lowland biotic attrition and range-shift gaps as predicted by a simple model driven by shifts of isotherms will result in novel challenges for preserving mountain biodiversity in the inner tropics. Whereas contractions of occupied area are expected to threaten endemic and already endangered species in particular, we suggest that conservation priorities can be identified based on simple prognostic models even without precise regional warming scenarios.
20532122|Aim: Identify environmental correlates for tropical tree diversity and composition. Location: Borneo, Southeast Asia. Methods: A GIS-environmental database with 5 arc minute (c. 10  10 km) resolution was combined with tree inventory data. Tree diversity, phylogenetic diversity (PD) and the two main compositional gradients were determined for 46 tree inventories. Akaike's information criterion and a data jackknifing procedure were used to select 50 explanatory models for diversity and composition gradients. The average of these models was used as our final diversity and compositional model. We applied Moran's I to detect spatial autocorrelation of residuals. Results: Tree diversity, PD and the two main compositional gradients in Borneo were all significantly correlated with the environment. Tree diversity correlated negatively with elevation, soil depth, soil coarseness (texture) and organic carbon content, whereas it correlated positively with soil C:N ratio, soil pH, moisture storage capacity and annual rainfall. Tree PD was correlated positively with elevation and temperature seasonality and was largely determined by gymnosperms. However, angiosperm PD also correlated positive with elevation. Compositional patterns were strongly correlated with elevation but soil texture, cation-exchange-capacity, C:N ratio, C and N content and drainage were also important next to rainfall seasonality and El Nio Southern Oscillation drought impact. Main conclusions: Although elevation is the most important correlate for diversity and compositional gradients in Borneo, significant additional variability is explained by soil characteristics (texture, carbon content, pH, depth, drainage and nutrient status) and climate (annual rainfall, rainfall seasonality and droughts). The identified environmental correlates for diversity and composition gradients correspond to those found in other tropical regions of the world. Differences between the regions are mainly formed by differences in the relative importance of the environmental variables in explaining diversity and compositional gradients.
2999788|This paper investigates the potential use of the corticolous lichen genus Bulbothrix Hale as a bioindicator of `time-since-last-fire' in the cerrado (savannas) of central Brazil. Work was carried out at the Reserva Ecologica do IBGE and the Jardim Botanico de Brasilia, 33 km outside Brasilia D.F., in plots of cerrado denso with known fire histories within the `Fire Project' area. Measurements of abundance and thallus size were taken of all Bulbothrix individuals encountered up to 2m on the trunks of three phorophyte species. The results show that abundances and thalli sizes of the Bulbothrix populations can be correlated with the `time-since-last-fire' that had occurred in each of the plots. This study shows that is is possible to use characteristics of specific lichen populations as bioindicators of fire history.
4124779|Invasive species often cause the decline of native prey or competitors. We highlight a contrasting example of the large-scale recovery of a native species and the concurrent decline and likely displacement of an established invasive competitor. Invasive American mink Mustela vison became widespread in the British Isles at the same time as native Eurasian otters Lutra lutra were declining as a result of water pollution. In common with other invasive predators, mink cause conservation problems for a range of native prey species, most notably water voles Arvicola terrestris. Recent trends in the distribution of native otters and invasive mink in north-east England were examined using a novel regression modelling approach to analyse presence/ absence data from field surveys, corroborated by contemporary predator culling records. Between 1991 and 2002, the percentage of sites where mink signs were found decreased from 80% to 20%, while otter signs increased from 18% to 80%. Annual indices of mink captures on shooting estates increased between 1980 and 1996, but were followed by a decline thereafter. Indices of the incidence of native otters were significantly related to those indicating the decline or displacement of invasive mink. This large-scale field study is supportive of localized experimental evidence for the return of dominant, native otters being concurrent with the decline of the invasive alien mink. The recovery of a dominant native species may represent a reversal of the mesopredator release that allowed invasive mink to establish and may eventually serve to mitigate their impact on native prey species.
20172010|The South American Cerrado is the largest tropical savanna of the world, and one of the most threatened biomes on the Earth. Levels of bird endemism in this biome are controversial, but the most up-to-date study points to 30 endemic species. In this paper, I analysed the recent range shift by one of those species, the curl-crested jay Cyanocorax cristatellus, comparing it with three other alleged Cerrado endemics (lesser nothura Nothura minor, chestnut-capped foliage-gleaner Hylocryptus rectirostris, and grey-backed tachuri Polystictus superciliaris) and a 'near-endemic' (white-banded tanager Neothraupis fasciata). The curl-crested jay expanded its range considerably into south-eastern Brazil during the last century, colonizing extensive areas formerly covered by the Atlantic forest, which has been almost completely cleared by human activity. I found no evidence of recent range shift for the four other species studied, but demonstrated that the grey-backed tachuri is not a Cerrado endemic. I found that the vegetation map used by previous authors to classify birds as endemics is imprecise and out-of-date, not depicting well the biome limits, resulting in an arbitrary, sometimes erroneous, classification. I suggested the adoption of a more modern and detailed Cerrado map. The necessity of a comprehensive review in the list of Cerrado's endemic birds in light of modern vegetation maps is highlighted.
40390751|Aim The presence-only data stored in natural history collections is the most important source of information available regarding the distribution of organisms. These data and profile techniques can be used to generate species distribution models (SDMs), but pseudo-absences must be generated to use group discriminative techniques. In this study, we evaluated whether the SDMs generated with pseudo-absences are reliable and also if there are differences in the results obtained with profile and group discriminative techniques. Location Ecuador, South America. Methods The SDMs were generated with a training data set for each of the five species of Anthurium and six different methods: two profile techniques (BIOCLIM and Gower's distance index), three group discriminative techniques [logistic multiple regression (LMR), multivariate adaptative regression splines (MARS) and MAXENT] and a mixed modelling approach genetic algorithm for rule-set production (GARP), which employs a combination of profile and group discriminative techniques and generates its own pseudo-absences. For LMR, MARS and MAXENT, three types of absences were generated: (1) random pseudoabsences in equal number to presences and excluding a buffer area around presences (except for MAXENT, which assumes that this background sample includes presences), (2) a large number (10,000) of random pseudo-absences, also excluding a buffer area around each presence and (3) ' target-group absences' (TGA), consisting of sites where other species of the group have been collected by the specialist, but not the species being modelled. To compare the predictive performance of the SDMs, the area under the curve statistic was calculated using an independent testing data set for each species. Results MARS, MAXENT and LMR produce better results than the profile techniques. The models created with TGA are generally more accurate than those generated with pseudo-absences. Main conclusions The advantages and disadvantages of different options for using pseudo-absences and TGA with profile and group discriminative modelling techniques are explained and recommendations are made for the future.
2673339|Projected climate change has been suspected of affecting the biota of conserved nature areas in different and significant ways. Nevertheless, strategic management within some nature conservation agencies appears relatively unprepared for the possible consequences of climate change. National level planning of reserve design networks has also tended to skirt the issue, possibly owing to insufficient analysis. This paper provides a first assessment of the possible effects of climate change on plant diversity within the protected area network of South Africa. A climate change scenario of increased temperature but no change in precipitation resulted in derived optimum growth days increasing in some reserves through increased temperature extending the growing season. In some other reserves optimum growth days declined through greater evapotranspiration. We concentrated on the larger reserves of the latter group for which conditions that are more limiting were predicted. Plant species were evaluated in terms of their critical limits in growth days and minimum temperature. Over a third of the species analysed for one reserve (Augrabies Falls National Park and Melkbosrand) was indicated to become locally extinct with climate change. Another reserve in the region showed fewer than 1% local extinctions. It is clear that although a certain magnitude of climate change is a prerequisite for these extinctions, the rate and number of extinctions depend strongly on the different environmental tolerances of the specific biotic components of the conserved area. Potential immigration of other species to Augrabies Falls/ Melkbosrand required to balance the projected extinctions with climate change would need migration abilities and conditions that are unlikely to be met. A net decrease in plant diversity may thus be expected. The results confirm that with the climate change scenario used, the concept of sustaining species through fixed protected areas may be fundamentally flawed, at least in certain areas.
40390713|Aim We present the first attempt of mapping global conservation priorities for two snake clades, Viperidae and Elapidae. We compared the global conservation priorities of each clade with the nine global conservation schemes defined by Brooks et al. to evaluate how effective these schemes are in ensuring the preservation of viperid and elapid biodiversity. Location Global. Methods Based on range maps of 228 species of Viperidae and 224 species of Elapidae, we used systematic conservation planning methods of complementarity and irreplaceability to generate a set of conservation networks under two cost scenarios: (1) minimizing conservation-human development conflicts and (2) maximizing environmental suitability for high snake richness. Analysis of variance was used to investigate whether the mean irreplaceability of cells matching the areas covered by each of the nine global prioritization schemes in Brooks et al was higher than the mean irreplaceability of cells located outside these areas. Results Overall, few areas showed irreplaceability higher than 0.5 based on a goal of representing 25% of the species' ranges. The conservation networks generated in expectation of low conflicts between human development and conservation were quite different from the networks of high environmental suitability. Areas with higher irreplaceability coincided with the regions covered by global schemes of Endemic Bird Areas (for Viperidae and Elapidae) and High-Biodiversity Wilderness (for Elapidae). Main conclusions Our findings indicated the existence of viable conservation opportunities for these two snake groups. This study can be viewed as a way to overcome, at least in part, the recent criticism concerning the independent development of several global conservation priorities by evaluating which groups of organisms are better represented in each of them. More than simply determining priorities for snakes' conservation, our analyses showed that the development of parallel priority-setting initiatives can be reconciled with those strategies for which financial resources are already being designed.
41242830|Aim To assess associations between invasiveness, genome size and species traits in Australian Acacia species introduced outside their native range. Location Global. Methods Holoploid genome size was determined by flow cytometry for 92 species in Acacia subgenus Phyllodineae native to Australia. These data were used to test whether genome size was significantly different for invasive (n = 21; species known to be established and spreading in foreign environments) and noninvasive (n = 71; species that have been introduced to foreign environments but which are not known to be spreading) species. Data for five functional traits [seed mass, specific leaf area (SLA), relative growth rate (RGR), maximum height and dispersal mode] and three characteristics of native range (size, temperature range and precipitation range) were used to test for univariate and multivariate relationships between (1) invasiveness and traits and (2) genome size and traits. Results Genome size ranged from 1.20 to 2.13 pg/2C and was not significantly smaller in invasive compared with non-invasive acacias. However, invasive acacias were found to be taller and possess a larger native range size and a wider range of annual precipitation when compared with non-invasive acacias. Multivariate analyses revealed significant differences between invasive and non-invasive acacias (PERMANOVA; P &lt; 0.01) driven largely by differences in native range characteristics. We detected a positive relationship between genome size and SLA (P = 0.02) and elaiosome dispersal mode (P &lt; 0.01) in analyses across species, but these findings were not supported by evolutionary divergence analyses. Main conclusions Genome size variation does not underpin variation in traits associated with the invasive/non-invasive dichotomy in introduced acacias, probably because of the very small DNA values in the Acacia species studied. Acacias introduced into new environments are most likely to become invasive if they are tall shrubs or trees and are widely distributed in their native range.
3696930|Ships that enter the Great Lakes laden with cargo carry only residual ballast water and sediment in ballast tanks. These ships are designated 'no ballast on board' (NOBOB) and constitute > 90% of inbound traffic. We conducted in situ experiments using emergence traps to assess the viability and the introduction potential of invertebrate diapausing stages present in ships' ballast sediment. All trials commenced while vessels operated on the lower lakes (Erie, Ontario) and were completed 6-11 days later at ports on the upper lakes (Michigan, Lake Superior). Eight trials were conducted on four ships using five different ballast sediments. Hatching was observed on every ship, although not from all sediments on all ships. Overall hatch rates were very low (0.5 individuals per 500 g sediment), typically involving activation of < 0.05% of total eggs present. Five species of rotifers and copepod nauplii were hatched from ballast sediments, although only one or two species typically hatched from any one sediment. Results of this study indicate that hatching of diapausing eggs contained in ballast sediment of NOBOB ships poses a relatively low risk of invasion to the Great Lakes. However, as reproduction may occur in tanks, and non-indigenous species may be involved in numerous introduction events, the risk posed by this vector is small but potentially important. While dormancy is a characteristic enabling enhanced survival during transportation in ballast tanks, it becomes a hindrance for introduction.
40390727|Aim To understand the community structure of mountain ungulates by exploring their niche dynamics in response to sympatric species richness. Location Ladakh and Spiti Regions of the Western Indian Trans-Himalaya. Methods We used the blue sheep Pseudois nayaur, a relatively widely distributed mountain ungulate, as a model species to address the issue. We selected three discrete valleys in three protected areas with similar environmental features but varying wild ungulate species richness, and studied blue sheep's diet and habitat utilization in them. Habitat variables such as slope angle, distance to cliff and elevation at blue sheep locations were recorded to determine the habitat width of the species. Faecal pellets were collected and microhistological faecal analysis was carried out to determine the diet width of blue sheep in the three areas with different ungulate species richness. Blue sheep's niche width in terms of habitat and diet was determined using the Shannon's Index. Results The habitat width of blue sheep had a negative relationship with the number of sympatric species. However, contrary to our expectation, there was a hump-shaped relationship between blue sheep's diet width and the sympatric species richness, with the diet width being narrower in areas of allopatry as well as in areas with high herbivore species richness, and the greatest in areas with moderate species richness. Main conclusions We suspect that the narrow diet width in allopatry is out of choice, whereas it is out of necessity in areas with high herbivore species richness because of resource partitioning that enables coexistence. We suggest that interactions with sympatric species lead to niche adjustment of mountain ungulates, implying that competition may play a role in structuring Trans-Himalayan mountain ungulate assemblages. Given these results, we underscore the importance of including biotic interactions in species distribution models, which have often been neglected.
4124776|Though still often neglected, spatial autocorrelation can be a serious issue in ecology because the presence of spatial autocorrelation may alter the parameter estimates and error probabilities of linear models. Here I re-analysed data from a previous study on the relationship between plant species richness and environmental correlates in Germany. While there was a positive relationship between native plant species richness and an altitudinal gradient when ignoring the presence of spatial autocorrelation, the use of a spatial simultaneous liner error model revealed a negative relationship. This most dramatic effect where the observed pattern was inverted may be explained by the environmental situation in Germany. There the highest altitudes are in the south and the lowlands in the north that result in some locally or regionally inverted patterns of the large-scale environmental gradients from the equator to the north. This study therefore shows the necessity to consider spatial autocorrelation in spatial analyses.
40390728|Aim Evidence is accumulating of a general increase in woody cover of many savanna regions of the world. Little is known about the consequences of this widespread and fundamental ecosystem structural shift on biodiversity. Location South Africa. Methods We assessed the potential response of bird species to shrub encroachment in a South African savanna by censusing bird species in five habitats along a gradient of increasing shrub cover, from grassland/open woodland to shrubland dominated by various shrub species. We also explored historical bird species population trends across southern Africa during the second half of the 20th century to determine if any quantifiable shifts had occurred that support an ongoing impact of shrub encroachment at the regional scale. Results At the local scale, species richness peaked at intermediate levels of shrub cover. Bird species composition showed high turnover along the gradient, suggesting that widespread shrub encroachment is likely to lead to the loss of certain species with a concomitant decline in bird species richness at the landscape scale. Finally, savanna bird species responded to changes in vegetation structure rather than vegetation species composition: bird assemblages were very similar in shrublands dominated by Acacia mellifera and those dominated by Tarchonanthus camphoratus. Main conclusions Shrub encroachment might have a bigger impact on bird diversity in grassland than in open woodland, regardless of the shrub species. Species recorded in our study area were associated with historical population changes at the scale of southern Africa suggesting that shrub encroachment could be one of the main drivers of bird population dynamics in southern African savannas. If current trends continue, the persistence of several southern African bird species associated with open savanna might be jeopardized regionally.
3246740|Comparisons between regions with similar climates have traditionally helped to tackle big questions in evolutionary ecology and historical biogeography. We claim that plant invasion ecology can benefit greatly from further and better comparisons at regional and global scales. In this note we discuss the potentials and limitations of comparing climatically analogous regions to provide novel insights into the mechanisms of alien plant invasions. Comparisons among areas with similar climates have the advantage that some features of the abiotic environment are within a narrower range of variation, enabling the researcher to focus on the effects of propagule pressure, microenvironmental differences and, more importantly, the biotic environment in the invasion process. However, there are two major issues that limit the strengths of such comparisons: (1) non-standardized databases of alien species, especially in less developed countries; and (2) deficient sampling designs. We argue that we should take advantage of comparative studies of alien plant invasions across regions with similar climates not only to obtain useful insights about invasions, but to search for generalities beyond invasion ecology that contribute to our knowledge of natural systems.
40604242|Aim To highlight the importance of combining the geographies of sociocultural adaptation and biodiversity risk for creating global change conservation strategies. Location Global. Methods We review global conservation adaptation strategies and the geographies that influence biological risk, as well as sociocultural capacity to set priorities for a conservation response. We then describe relationships among these geographies and discuss criteria for prioritizing areas that will have the greatest potential for effective adaptive action. Results Strategic conservation requires integrating biological geographies with physical and cultural geographies to maximize potential success with limited resources. Main conclusions Biogeography is important for strategic conservation, but it is not the only geography that matters. There is a physical geography of global change providing a complex backdrop against which biodiversity is responsive. Additionally, there is a human geography that drives the degree of threat through variations in anthropogenic disturbance of natural systems and also drives variation in potential mitigation through sociocultural capacity for conservation action. Conservation biogeography typically considers the physical geography of change and the biogeography of threat; it must expand to consider the sociocultural geography of intervention, negative and positive, if it is to be effective. Consideration of these varying geographies also drives different choices for how to implement conservation strategies.
20172050|To improve understanding of the biogeographical consequences of species introduction, we examined whether introduced soil macroinvertebrates differ from natives in the relationship between species richness and key environmental predictors, and whether such differences affect the relationship between native and introduced species richness. For North America north of Mexico, we summarized jurisdiction occurrence data for seven macroinvertebrate taxa with strong influences on soil biodiversity or processes. We analysed the relationships of native and introduced species richness to each other using linear regression; to latitude using Gaussian regressions; and, using the residuals of the richness--latitude regressions, to distance from coasts, human population density, and human population size using regression and correlation. We found weak to strong positive relationships between native and introduced species richness. This variation was related to divergent relationships of native and introduced species with latitude, human population density, and distance from coasts. Native species richness declined with increasing latitude for all taxa, as did introduced species richness for taxa with predominantly lower-latitude origins (ants, termites, non-lumbricid earthworms). In contrast, introduced species richness peaked at higher latitudes for four taxa of predominantly Palearctic origins (weevils, ground beetles, lumbricid earthworms, isopods). Partitioning introduced taxa within these groups based on region of origin, we found that Palearctic taxa were distributed at higher latitudes than non-Palearctic taxa. Thus source region appears to strongly influence introduced species richness--latitude relationships. Compared to natives, introduced species exhibited more positive relationships with human population density and negative relationships with distance from coasts, but did not differ in relationships with human population size. Thus coastal, densely populated regions are likely to have a higher proportion of introduced soil macroinvertebrate species. These differences between distribution of native and introduced species tend to weaken positive correlations between native and introduced species richness, especially for taxa dominated by Palearctic introductions.
3246769|Turnover in species composition of the extremely species-rich family Geometridae (Lepidoptera) was investigated along an elevational gradient ranging from 1040 m to 2677 m above sea level. Moths were sampled using weak light traps (30 W) in three field periods in 1999 and 2000 in an Andean montane rainforest in the province of Zamora-Chinchipe in southern Ecuador. A total of 13 938 specimens representing 1010 species were analysed. Similarities of ensembles of all geometrid moths and of the subfamilies Ennominae and Larentiinae were calculated using the NESS index (with m
40390747|Aim To quantify the role of multiple biodiversity drivers -pollution, woodland structure and climate -controlling lichen epiphyte composition and diversity. Location Scotland, north-west Europe. Methods Four compatible datasets were assembled: site-scale species distribution data (response) and base-line modelled data on climate, pollution loads and extent of old-growth woodland (explanatory variables). First, partial-canonical correspondence analysis was used: (1) to compare the importance of environmental variables to pure spatial effects and (2) to partition the importance of environmental variables in explaining species composition. Secondly, patterns of species richness were investigated using multiple leastsquares regression. Results Old-growth woodland was the most important control of species richness. Pollution was the most important explanatory variable for species composition. The impact of pollution on composition (and to a lesser extent on richness) is explained: (1) By recovery of lichens with declining SO pollution, although with epiphyte composition shifted by the recent effects of N-pollution and (2) By the limited spatial extent of severe pollution, and generally low-tomoderate pollution loads across our study area, combined with the positive effect of old-growth woodland extent in controlling species richness. The effect of climate and old-growth woodland on species composition covaried, supporting an interaction between habitat quality and climatic setting, which may be important in understanding the epiphyte response to climate change. Conclusions Advances in conservation planning will likely require an integrated approach to understanding simultaneous effects of multiple drivers, providing opportunities for integrated management strategies. Our study provides a preliminary example of this approach by combining three key biodiversity drivers into a single framework for lichen epiphytes. Thus, reducing pollution loads may make old-growth woodland that currently exists in a polluted landscape available for colonization, thereby extending the available habitat for epiphytes, and facilitating an effective species response to climate change.
4539952|The horizontal temperature zones of the earth tend to restrict the latitudinal ranges of species but allow the possibility of exceedingly broad longitudinal dispersals. In the Tropical Zone, biodiversity on the continental shelves is not homogeneous but is concentrated in two conspicuous peaks, one in the Indo-Pacific Ocean and the other in the Atlantic. The Indo-Pacific biodiversity peak is located within a relatively small area called the East Indies Triangle. The Atlantic peak is located in the southern Caribbean Sea. Evidence that has been accumulated over the years indicates that each area functions as a centre of origin and evolutionary radiation. What are the causes of these concentrations and their present functions? A newly published model indicates a positive relationship between environmental temperature and the rate of speciation. While this helps to explain the generally high tropical diversity, and the negative relationship between diversity and latitude, it does not provide a reason for the longitudinal concentrations. But, other new research serves to substantiate previous indications of a positive relationship between speciation rate and species diversity. The existence of this positive feedback, together with some contributory factors, provides the reason why concentrations occur. The evolutionary radiation probably begins when the build-up of species diversity reaches a critical level. The warm-temperate biotas are derived from the tropics. Their northern longitudinal relationships tend to be minor but, in the southern hemisphere, the West Wind Drift is an important dispersal mechanism for both warm-temperate and cold-temperate species. The cold-temperate biotas peaked in two areas, the North Pacific and the Antarctic; each has developed into a centre of origin. The continuous dispersal of well-adapted species from the centres helps peripheral communities maintain diversity.
3696875|Ranges of species are dynamic and respond to long-term climate change and contemporary effects such as habitat modification. We report here that moose (Alces alces) have recently colonized coastal temperate rainforests of British Columbia, Canada. Contrary to recent publications, field observations of moose and their sign, combined with their occurrence in wolf (Canis lupus) faeces, suggest that moose are now widespread on the coastal mainland and occur on least three islands. Traditional ecological knowledge (information accumulated by aboriginal peoples about their environment) suggests that colonization occurred during the mid 1900s, concomitant with logging of major watersheds that bisect the Coast Mountain Range. Range expansion by moose may have ecological consequences such as alteration of predator-prey dynamics and transmission of disease to native deer (Odocoileus hemionus).
4124774|While intensification of human activities and its ecological effects in many natural areas have recently received much attention, land abandonment in marginal areas is still the largely ignored side of a process rooted in the same socioeconomic context. Decreasing human impact in marginal rural areas often triggers a recovery of seminatural vegetation. Over a period of 25 years, we studied the changes in landscape and vegetation structure that followed land abandonment in a traditional Mediterranean mosaic of crops, grasslands, shrublands and woodlands, and assessed their effects on songbird occurrence and distribution. We combined an analysis of vegetation changes based on aerial photo interpretation with an analysis of bird censuses from 1978, 1992 and 2003 at two spatial scales: landscape and census plot (respectively 2800 and 3 ha). The perceived temporal changes in the vegetation were scale dependent. At the landscape scale, open habitats tended to disappear and woodlands matured. The contrasts in vegetation structure that defined habitat patches at the onset of the study tended to disappear. There was an overall shift of the bird community in favour of woodland species. At the scale of the census plot, however, the colonization by woody vegetation of patches formerly characterized by a homogeneous grass cover increased the local diversity of the vegetation, at least temporarily. Of seven species dependent on open habitats, the occurrence rate of five species significantly decreased, whereas it increased for two species: woodlark (Lulula arborea) and melodious warbler (Hippolais polyglotta). This increase was linked to the transitional increase in local vegetation diversity. In patches originally dominated by woodlands, local vegetation diversity decreased as woody vegetation expanded into clearings. The occurrence rate significantly increased for seven species relying on closed woodlands, while it decreased for two woodland species. As most species of high conservation profile in the Mediterranean are tied to open or to heterogeneous transitional habitats, these trends raise questions concerning their persistence in the future.
41242803|Aim Defining priority areas for conservation is essential to minimize biodiversity loss, but the adoption of different methods for describing species distributions influences the outcomes. In order to provide a robust basis for the conservation of freshwater turtles in Africa, we compared the effect that different species-mapping approaches had on derived patterns of species richness, species vulnerability and protected-area representativeness. Location Africa. Methods We adopted three different approaches with increasing complexity for generating species distribution maps. The first approach was based on the geographic intersection of species records and grid squares; the second on the union of local convex polygons; and the third on inductive distribution modelling techniques. We used distribution maps, generated using these three approaches, to determine conservation priorities based on geographic patterns of species richness and vulnerability, as well as for conducting gap and irreplaceability analyses. Results We obtained markedly different distribution maps using the three methods, which in turn caused differences in conservation priorities. The gridsquare approach underestimated range sizes and species richness, while the polygon approach overestimated these attributes. The distribution modelling approach provided the most realistic outcome in terms of diversity patterns, by minimizing both commission and omission errors. An integrated map of conservation priority - derived by combining individual measures of priority based on the distribution modelling approach - identified the Gulf of Guinea coast and the Albertine Rift as major priority areas. Main conclusions Each species-mapping approach has both advantages and disadvantages. The choice of the most appropriate approach in any given situation depends on the availability of locality records and on the relative importance of mitigating omission and commission errors. Our findings suggest that in most circumstances, the use of distribution modelling has many advantages relative to the other approaches. The priority areas identified in this study should be considered for targeting efforts to conserve Africa freshwater turtles in the coming years.
40390731|Aim By establishing a prehistoric fossil record for the vertebrate fauna of Guam, we can document the composition of the island's fauna prior to Western contact. It will also complement the extensive prehistoric fossil data already known from the nearby islands of Rota, Tinian and Aguiguan, and improve our understanding of natural distributional patterns through a chronologically deeper view of the biogeography of the Mariana Islands. Location Northern Guam, Mariana Islands, Micronesia. Methods Fossil-bearing sediment was removed from karst features with vertically and horizontally controlled excavation methods. Age determinations of the fossils were estimated by radiocarbon dating associated wood charcoal samples. Results The 3314 bones (fossils) of terrestrial vertebrates date to the past two millennia and represent 34 species. Among 12 species of squamate reptiles, one is extinct (a gekkonid lizard) and another, the monitor lizard, Varanus indicus, was introduced to Guam no later than about 1600 years ago. The 17 species of birds feature five that are extinct. Two others not recorded previously on Guam are extirpated. Eight others were lost on Guam in historic times. We also recovered bones of two species of indigenous bats, (Pteropus sp., extirpated; Emballonura semicaudata, probably extirpated), and non-native rodents, (Rattus spp.). Main conclusions Guam's contemporary faunal losses have been well documented since invasion of the Brown Treesnake (Boiga irregularis) during or shortly after WWII. Other exotics, as well as habitat deterioration, have abetted this snake's deleterious presence. Our data further show that human impact led to declines or losses of vertebrate populations by late prehistoric times. Numerous anthropogenic extirpations would not be evident without studying fossils. Our chrono-stratigraphic evidence argues for the arrival of non-native rats (Rattus sp.) only about 1000 years ago, which helps to explain why a flightless rail survived on Guam into modern times, unlike on most other islands in Oceania.
40800785|Aim Data shortages mean that conservation priorities can be highly sensitive to historical patterns of exploration. Here, we investigate the potential of regionally focussed species distribution models to elucidate fine-scale patterns of richness, rarity and endemism. Location Eastern Arc Mountains, Tanzania and Kenya. Methods Generalized additive models and land cover data are used to estimate the distributions of 452 forest plant taxa (trees, lianas, shrubs and herbs). Presence records from a newly compiled database are regressed against environmental variables in a stepwise multimodel. Estimates of occurrence in forest patches are collated across target groups and analysed alongside inventory-based estimates of conservation priority. Results Predicted richness is higher than observed richness, with the biggest disparities in regions that have had the least research. North Pare and Nguu in particular are predicted to be more important than the inventory data suggest. Environmental conditions in parts of Nguru could support as many rangerestricted and endemic taxa as Uluguru, although realized niches are subject to unknown colonization histories. Concentrations of rare plants are especially high in the Usambaras, a pattern mediated in models by moisture indices, whilst overall richness is better explained by temperature gradients. Tree data dominate the botanical inventory; we find that priorities based on other growth forms might favour the mountains in a different order. Main conclusions Distribution models can provide conservation planning with high-resolution estimates of richness in well-researched areas, and predictive estimates of conservation importance elsewhere. Spatial and taxonomic biases in the data are essential considerations, as is the spatial scale used for models. We caution that predictive estimates are most uncertain for the species of highest conservation concern, and advocate using models and targeted field assessments iteratively to refine our understanding of which areas should be prioritised for conservation.
40604236|Aim To review some of the applications in ecology and conservation biogeography of datasets derived from atlas projects. We discuss data applications and data quality issues and suggest ways in which atlas data could be improved. Location Southern Africa and worldwide. Methods Atlas projects are broadly defined as collections or syntheses of original, spatially explicit data on species occurrences. We review uses of atlas datasets and discuss data quality issues using examples from atlas projects in southern Africa and worldwide. Results Atlas projects must cope with tradeoffs between data quality and quantity, standardization of sampling methods, quantification of sampling effort, and mismatches in skills and expectations between data collectors and data users. The most useful atlases have a good measure of sampling effort; include data collected at a fine enough resolution to link to habitat variables of potential interest; have a sufficiently large sample size to work with in a multivariate context; and offer clear, quantitative indications of the quality of each record to allow for the needs of users who have specific demands for high-quality data. Main conclusions Atlases have an important role to play in biodiversity conservation and ideally should aim to offer reliable, high quality data that can withstand public, scientific and legal scrutiny.
20171995|Identifying the root causes of extinction or endangerment requires long chronological records that begin before a population started to decline and extend until its extinction or functional extinction. We present a case study of the koa-finches, genus Rhodacanthis, an extinct group of Hawaiian honeycreepers that was specialized to feed on green pods and seeds of the koa tree or other leguminous plants. Six island populations of koa-finches are known; four in the Holocene fossil record and two that survived until the 1890s. We document the palaeoecological context of the fossils and identify constraints on the age span of the specimen record for each population using stratigraphic contexts, associated radiometric determinations, and museum specimen data. We estimate the potential geographical range of koa-finches at the time of human arrival using two methods: assessment of their historical and palaeohabitats, and geographical information system mapping of the pre-human distribution of the koa plant (Acacia koa) and its sister species, the koai'a plant (Acacia koaia). After integrating the foregoing data with chronological records and distributional maps of the potential forcing agents of extinction, we conclude that at least two extinctions of island populations were due to ecological change in the lowlands in the prehistorical and perhaps the early historical periods. In the same time frame, the koa-finch populations on Hawai'i Island became rare and restricted to upland refugia, making them vulnerable to the upland forest harvesting and degradation that was accelerating in the 1890s. Neither climatic variation nor mosquito-vectored diseases are likely to have caused the observed extinctions. This study illustrates an approach that can be applied to many other extinct and endangered island species to better understand the causes of high extinction rates in the human era.
2673311|Landscapes are diverse in the frequencies and distributions of habitat types. Does landscape heterogeneity, as a higher order (i.e. at a phenomenological scale coarser than that of organisms) of diversity, allow greater connectivity; does higher order diversity change higher order functions? Climatic change and habitat fragmentation require that plant and animal species move across varied landscapes. Mediterranean-type ecosystems provide contrasts in landscape heterogeneity. In order to assess potential impacts of either and thus to propose remedial measures, it is necessary to understand general classes of connectivity in landscapes. We developed six rules for movement (random, persistent, and directionally biased for both movement throughout habitat and restricted to habitat edges), which we simulated on three general landscape patterns (random, hierarchical, and fractal) with different degrees of habitat fragmentation. Organisms that move only on the edge of habitat patches are more successful with a moderate amount of fragmentation but are less successful overall and especially in the non-random landscapes. Particular structures can thus differentiate connectivity for different vectors. We propose that general rules derived from simulations can be applied to the identification of landscapes that are near critical levels of fragmentation and which will respond sensitively to small increases in fragmentation or small efforts at restoration. Mediterranean-type ecosystems are well suited to test this proposal because of contrasting patterns and changes in fragmentation.
20171954|Global biodiversity is changing rapidly driven by human alteration of habitat, and nowhere this is more dramatic than in insular habitats. Yet land-cover change is a complex phenomenon that not only involves habitat destruction but also forest recovery over different time scales. Therefore, we might expect species to respond in diverse ways with likely consequences for the reorganization of regional assemblages. These changes, however, may be different in tropical islands because of their low species richness, generalist habits and high proportion of endemics. Here, we focus on the island of Puerto Rico and ask how island-wide changes in land cover and land use has influenced the large-scale organization of bird assemblages. To address this question, we combined in a Geographical Information System (GIS) the first 6 years (1997-2002) of the Puerto Rican Breeding Bird Survey (PR-BBS) with land-cover and land-use data extracted from a published digital map derived from the classification of Landsat images. A Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMS) ordination based on the composition and abundance of birds, and percentage land-use types showed that land use followed by climate could explain most of the variation observed among routes in terms of species composition and abundance. Moreover, endemic and exotic species were widely distributed throughout the island, but the proportion of endemic species is higher in closed forests while exotic species are more abundant in open habitats. However, historical accounts from the early 1900s indicate that endemic species were distributed across the entire island. Today, most of the land cover transformation in Puerto Rico occurs in the lowlands which may explain the high abundance of endemic species in cloud forests and the high abundance of exotic species in open habitats in the lowlands.
40604219|Aim Quaternary palaeopalynological records collected throughout the Iberian Peninsula and species distribution models (SDMs) were integrated to gain a better understanding of the historical biogeography of the Iberian Abies species (i. e.Abies pinsapo and Abies alba). We hypothesize that SDMs and Abies palaeorecords are closely correlated, assuming a certain stasis in climatic and topographic ecological niche dimensions. In addition, the modelling results were used to assign the fossil records to A. alba or A. pinsapo, to identify environmental variables affecting their distribution, and to evaluate the ecological segregation between the two taxa. Location The Iberian Peninsula. Methods For the estimation of past Abies distributions, a hindcasting process was used. Abies pinsapo and A. alba were modelled individually, first calibrating the model for their current distributions in relation to the present climate, and then projecting it into the past the last glacial maximum (LGM) and the Middle Holocene periods in relation to palaeoclimate simulations. The resulting models were compared with Iberian-wide fossil pollen records to detect areas of overlap. Results The overlap observed between past Abies refugiainferred from fossil pollen recordsand the SDMs helped to construct the Quaternary distribution of the Iberian Abies species. SDMs yielded two well-differentiated potential distributions: A. pinsapo throughout the Baetic mountain Range and A. alba along the Pyrenees and Cantabrian Range. These results propose that the two taxa remained isolated throughout the Quaternary, indicating a significant geographical and ecological segregation. In addition, no significant differences were detected comparing the three projections (present-day, Mid-Holocene and LGM), suggesting a relative climate stasis in the refuge areas during the Quaternary. Main conclusions Our results confirm that SDM projections can provide a useful complement to palaeoecological studies, offering a less subjective and spatially explicit hypothesis concerning past geographic patterns of Iberian Abies species.The integration of ecological-niche characteristics from known occurrences of Abies species in conjunction with palaeoecological studies could constitute a suitable tool to define appropriate areas in which to focus proactive conservation strategies.
20172015|The global extinction crisis demands immediate action to conserve species at risk. However, if entire clades such as superfamilies are at risk due to shared evolutionary history, a shift towards conserving clades rather than individual species may be needed. Using phylogenetic autocorrelation analysis, we demonstrate that multiple kinds of extinction threat clump within the amphibian tree of life. Our study provides insight into how these threats may collectively influence the extinction risk of whole clades, consistent with the supposition that related species, with similar traits, share an intrinsic vulnerability to common kinds of threat. Most strikingly, we find a significant concentration of 'enigmatic' decline and critically endangered status within families of the hyloid frogs. This phylogenetic clumping of risk is also geographically concentrated, with most threats found in Central and South America, and Australia, coinciding with reported outbreaks of chytridiomycosis. We speculate that the phylogenetic clumping of threat represents, in part, shared extinction proneness due to shared evolutionary history. However, even if the phylogenetic clumping of threat were simply a by-product of shared geography, this concordance between phylogenetic and geographical patterns represents a prime opportunity. Where practical, we should implement conservation plans that focus on biogeographical regions where threatened clades occur, thereby improving our ability to conserve species. This approach could outperform the usual triage approach of saving individual species after they have become critically endangered.
20532119|Aim: Landscape structure influences the distribution of animals, altering their movements and their ability to reach habitat patches. We analysed the spatial patterns of dung beetle species diversity in three differently structured natural landscapes in a Mediterranean protected area in the centre of the Iberian Peninsula. Location: Cabaeros National Park, Central Spain. Methods: Diversity components within () and among () the three main vegetation types in the reserve were compared by using a hierarchical nested design. These were forests, scrublands and grasslands embedded in three different landscapes, where each was the most dominant and structurally connected habitat. Results: Species richness of grassland habitat did not vary across landscapes, but forest habitat showed lower species richness in the grassland-dominated landscape. Scrubland was the least species-rich habitat, but here again there was no significant variation across landscapes. However, in all cases, there was a significant influence of habitat context (configuration of habitat patches within landscape matrix) on similarity of species composition. These tended to be more similar to the dominant landscape matrix where they were embedded, rather than to the same habitat type in other landscapes. Additive partitioning of diversity showed higher than expected values of  in all landscapes, which indicated a structured response. Highest values of  in the grassland-dominated landscape suggest that this was the least connected landscape for dung beetles. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that in homogeneous conditions of climate and trophic resources, landscape structure may well be more important than habitat type as a determinant of dung beetle distribution in the Mediterranean.
3246703|Although Darwin pioneered the study of long-distance dispersal (LDD) of aquatic invertebrates via waterbirds, it remains in its infancy as a modern discipline. A handful of recent studies have quantified internal or external transport in the field, confirming that a variety of long-distance migrants carry invertebrates both internally and externally. These studies show that variation in the morphology of vectors influences the frequency and size of propagules transported, and suggest that more invertebrate groups disperse via birds than was previously thought. Dispersal limitation has mainly been investigated for zooplankton in small experimental systems from which waterbirds were effectively excluded, and the extent of such limitation for invertebrate populations in wetlands interconnected by waterbird movements remains unclear. We expect that the spatial and temporal scales at which dispersal limitation constrains geographical ranges, species richness and genetic structure of invertebrates depends partly on the density of migratory birds using the area. Birds may have a major role in the expansion of exotic species. We propose several avenues for future research. There is a particular need for more quantitative studies of LDD by birds that will enable modellers to assess its role in maintaining invertebrate biodiversity among increasingly fragmented wetlands and in the face of climate change, as well as in the spread of invasive species.
40390754|Aim Biotic homogenization is a growing phenomenon and has recently attracted much attention. Here, we analyse a large dataset of native and alien plants in North America to examine whether biotic homogenization is related to several ecological and biological attributes. Location North America (north of Mexico). Methods We assembled species lists of native and alien vascular plants for each of the 64 state-and province-level geographical units in North America. Each alien species was characterized with respect to habitat (wetland versus upland), invasiveness (invasive versus non-invasive), life cycle (annual/biennial versus perennial) and habit (herbaceous versus woody). We calculated a Jaccard similarity index separately for native, for alien, and for native and alien species. We used the average of Jaccard dissimilarity index (1-Jaccard index) of all paired localities as a measure of the mean beta diversity of alien species for each set of localities examined in an analysis. We used a homogenization index to quantify the effect of homogenization or differentiation. Results We found that (1) wetland, invasive, annual/biennial and herbaceous alien plants markedly homogenized the state-level floras whereas non-invasive and woody alien plants tended to differentiate the floras; (2) beta diversity was significantly lower for wetland, invasive, annual/biennial and herbaceous alien plants than their counterparts (i.e. upland, non-invasive, perennial and woody alien plants, respectively); and (3) upland and perennial alien plants each played an equal role in homogenizing and differentiating the state-level floras. Main conclusions Our study shows that biotic homogenization is clearly related to habitat type (e.g. wetland versus uplands), species invasiveness and life-history traits such as life cycle (e.g. annual/biennial and herbaceous versus woody species) at the spatial scale examined. These observations help to understand the process of biotic homogenization resulting from alien vascular plants in North America.
40390759|Aim The aim of this study was to determine the number of successful establishments of the invasive Argentine ant outside native range and to see whether introduced supercolonies have resulted from single or multiple introductions. We also compared the genetic diversity of native versus introduced supercolonies to assess the size of the propagules (i. e. the number of founding individuals) at the origin of the introduced supercolonies. Location Global. Methods We used mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) markers and microsatellite loci to study 39 supercolonies of the Argentine ant Linepithema humile covering both the native (n = 25) and introduced range (n = 14). Results Data from three mitochondrial genes and 13 nuclear microsatellites suggest that the introduced supercolonies studied originated from at least seven founding events out of the native area in Argentina (primary introductions). The distribution of mtDNA haplotypes also suggests that supercolonies in the introduced range each derive from a single source supercolony and that one of these source supercolonies has been particularly successful, being the basis of many introduced populations spread across the world. Comparison of the genetic diversity of supercolonies based on the five most diverse loci also revealed that native and introduced supercolonies have greatly overlapping ranges of diversity, although the genetic diversity is on average less in introduced than in native supercolonies. Main conclusions Both primary introductions (from the native range) and secondary introductions (from sites with established invasive supercolonies) were important in the global expansion of the Argentine ant. In combination with the similar social organization of colonies in the native and introduced range, this indicates that invasiveness did not evolve recently as a unique and historically contingent event (e.g. reduction of genetic diversity) in this species. Rather, native L. humile supercolonies have characteristics that make them pre-adapted to invade new - and in particular disturbed - habitats when given the opportunity. These results have important implications with regard to possible strategies to be used to control invasive ants.
3246817|Species lists change for a variety of reasons, including new information and preferences for different species concepts. Uncertainty over species numbers is potentially damaging to tests of proposed correlates of species richness, particularly if taxonomic changes are biased toward some clades over others. We investigate the effects of this error and bias by testing the same suite of macroevolutionary hypotheses in seven different arrangements of primate taxonomy. This is the first time that the effects of the 'species problem' have been systematically investigated in this way. Primates are an excellent model System for examining the effects of taxonomic uncertainty: species numbers have doubled in the past two decades, with the fastest growth in the Neotropics. We found that different variables were significantly associated with species richness in each taxonomic arrangement. However, there were no significant differences among taxonomies in the regression slopes for any predictor variable. We found no tendency for significant correlations to occur in taxonomies with more species, suggesting that the results cannot be explained by a lack of power in the smaller taxonomies. The findings are discussed with reference to the wider implications for testing macroevolutionary hypotheses.
40800791|Aim Rapidly evolving pathogens may exert diversifying selection on genes involved in host immune defence including those encoding antimicrobial peptides (AMPs). Amphibian skin peptides are one important defence against chytridiomycosis, an emerging infectious disease caused by the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd). We examined the population-level variation in this innate immune defence to understand its relationship with disease dynamics. Location Queensland, Australia. Methods We examined skin peptide defences in five geographically distinct populations of Australian green-eyed treefrogs, Litoria genimaculata. Skin peptide samples were collected from 52 frogs from three upland populations that previously declined as chytridiomycosis emerged, but subsequently recovered, and from 34 frogs in two lowland populations that did not decline. Historical samples of skin peptides preceding Bd emergence were not available from any population. Results In general, lowland populations had more effective peptide defences than upland populations. Peptide profiles were similar among populations, although relative amounts of peptides expressed differed significantly among populations and were more variable in the uplands. Infected frogs in upland populations carried a significantly higher infection burden compared to lowland populations. The presence of effective AMPs in the skin of L. genimaculata does not eliminate infection; however, more effective peptide defences may limit infection intensity and the progression of disease. Main conclusions The population bottleneck in upland populations caused by chytridiomycosis emergence did not appear to produce responses to selection for more effective peptide defences against chytridiomycosis compared to lowland populations of L. genimaculata. This does not exclude the possibility that current peptide defences have adapted in response to disease emergence. A suggestive (P < 0.10) interaction between infection status and population indicates that in lowland populations, infected individuals tend to be those with lower relative intensities of AMPs, whereas in the upland populations, infected and uninfected individuals are similar. Thus, both the AMPs and the environment may act to mediate resistance to Bd infection.
3877715|Unbalanced samples are considered a drawback in predictive modelling of species' potential habitats, and a prevalence of 0.5 has been extensively recommended. We argue that unbalanced species distribution data are not such a problem from a statistical point of view, and that good models can be obtained provided that the right predictors and cut-off to convert probabilities into presence/absence are chosen. The effects of unbalanced prevalence should not be confused with those of low-quality data affected by false absences, low sample size, or unrepresentativeness of the environmental and spatial gradient. Finally, we point out the necessity of greater research effort aimed at improving both the quality of training data sets, and the processes of validating and testing of models.
41242793|Aim To map changes in the abundance of African wetland birds using remotely derived habitat data. We show that abundance-occupancy relationships can be coupled with habitat association models to map changes in abundance. As conservation resources are more easily allocated when spatial and temporal patterns of abundance are known, our method provides guidance for conservation planning. Location Papyrus, Cyperus papyrus, swamps in east central Africa. Methods Presence/absence surveys of six bird species in 93 wetlands were used to construct models predicting probability of occurrence from habitat characteristics. Densities were then determined from surveys in 23 additional wetlands and modelled as functions of occurrence probability. We then used satellite imagery to derive habitat characteristics remotely in two time periods (1984-87 and 2000-03) and used the modelled relationships between (1) habitat and occupancy and (2) occupancy and density, to infer changes in abundance in all c. 30,000 wetlands within the study area. Results Wetlands within the region declined by 8.6% between the two time periods, but by > 75% in regions of high human population density. Bird densities were also highest in these regions, which comprised wetlands subject to high levels of disturbance. The geographical coincidence of high densities and habitat loss and the existence of positive associations between bird density and occurrence meant that birds declined by much more than the average rate of their habitat. Main conclusions Targeting conservation efforts in areas with high drainage would protect a high proportion of the bird populations. Encouraging people to derive income from disturbance to which the birds are tolerant, rather than drainage, is likely to be an effective strategy. Because habitat characteristics are a key driver of abundance-occupancy relationships, we conclude that there is wide-scale scope to couple abundance-occupancy relationships with remote habitat mapping to efficiently inform conservation planning.
4539962|While poleward species migration in response to recent climatic warming is widely documented, few studies have examined entire range responses of broadly distributed sessile organisms, including changes on both the trailing (equatorward) and the leading (poleward) range edges. From a detailed population census throughout the entire geographical range of Aloe dichotoma Masson, a long-lived Namib Desert tree, together with data from repeat photographs, we present strong evidence that a developing range shift in this species is a 'fingerprint' of anthropogenic climate change. This is explained at a high level of statistical significance by population level impacts of observed regional warming and resulting water balance constraints. Generalized linear models suggest that greater mortalities and population declines in equatorward populations are virtually certainly the result, due to anthropogenic climate change, of the progressive exceedance of critical climate thresholds that are relatively closer to the species' tolerance limits in equatorward sites. Equatorward population declines are also broadly consistent with bioclimatically modelled projections under anticipated anthropogenic climate change but, as yet, there is no evidence of poleward range expansion into the area predicted to become suitable in future, despite good evidence for positive population growth trends in poleward populations. This study is among the first to show a marked lag between trailing edge population extinction and leading edge range expansion in a species experiencing anthropogenic climate change impacts, a pattern likely to apply to most sessile and poorly dispersed organisms. This provides support for conservative assumptions of species' migration rates when modelling climate change impacts for such species. Aloe dichotomas response to climate change suggests that desert ecosystems may be more sensitive to climate change than previously suspected.
2673424|I studied the distribution and density of three thrush populations, blackbird Turdus merula, song thrush T. philomelos and mistle thrush T. viscivorus, in an urban and contiguous rural area, totalling 2636 ha, in eastern England. Populations of these species are declining and I found 826, 85 and 30 territories of blackbird, song thrush and mistle thrush, respectively. Significantly more territories of all species than expected were within the urban boundary. Significantly more territories than expected were found of all three species in the built environment (residential housing, factories, schools, etc. with their associated gardens and green-space), urban and rural areas combined. Farmland occupied 67% of the study area but held significantly fewer blackbird and mistle thrush territories than expected, associated mainly with the small amount of grass; song thrushes were not recorded on farmland. Rural woodland and scrub held more blackbird and song thrush territories than expected. Song thrush was significantly associated with scrub within the urban boundary. With all three species largely absent from farmland, residential habitats can be considered as habitat refuges. The consequences of this for conservation and planning are discussed.
3246796|The place prioritization problem in conservation biology is that of establishing a sequentially prioritized list of places on the basis of biodiversity content. Such a list can then be used to select reserve networks that are designed to be fully representative of the biodiversity of an area as efficiently as possible (for instance, with minimum area or cost). The usual goal is the representation of all chosen biodiversity surrogates up to or beyond a required target, or to the greatest available extent. The purpose of this paper is to compare the respective performances of two place prioritization software packages, SITES and ResNet, on four datasets (distributions of termite genera in Namibia, breeding bird species in the Falkland Islands/Islas Malvinas, vertebrate species in Texas and flora and fauna species that are at risk in Quebec), to determine their respective merits. The two software packages implement radically different algorithms: SITES is based on a simulated annealing procedure for finding (local) optima; ResNet uses an algorithm based on rarity and complementarity. This analysis indicates that the rarity-complementarity based algorithm of ResNet surpasses the simulated annealing approach of SITES with respect to time and completeness. SITES, however, contains other features that are useful in conservation planning. Ways in which the two packages can be used together effectively are suggested.
40390744|Aim To identify priority areas for amphibian conservation in southeastern Brazil, by integrating species life-history traits and patterns of deforestation. Location State of So Paulo, Brazil. Methods We used the software Marxan to evaluate different scenarios of amphibian conservation planning. Our approach differs from previous methods by explicitly including two different landscape metrics; habitat split for species with aquatic larvae, and habitat loss for species with terrestrial development. We evaluated the effect of habitat requirements by classifying species breeding habitats in five categories (flowing water, still water permanent, still water temporary, bromeliad or bamboo, and terrestrial). We performed analyses using two scales, grid cells and watersheds and also considered nature preserves as protected areas. Results We found contrasting patterns of deforestation between coastal and inland regions. Seventy-six grid cells and 14 watersheds are capable of representing each species at least once. When accounting for grid cells already protected in state and national parks and considering species habitat requirements we found 16 high-priority grid cells for species with one or two reproductive habitats, and only one cell representing species with four habitat requirements. Key areas for the conservation of species breeding in flowing and permanent still waters are concentrated in southern state, while those for amphibians breeding in temporary ponds are concentrated in central to eastern zones. Eastern highland zones are key areas for preserving species breeding terrestrially by direct or indirect development. Species breeding in bromeliads and bamboos are already well represented in protected areas. Main conclusions Our results emphasize the need to integrate information on landscape configuration and species life-history traits to produce more ecologically relevant conservation strategies.
3877710|Knowledge about biodiversity remains inadequate because most species living on Earth were still not formally described (the Linnean shortfall) and because geographical distributions of most species are poorly understood and usually contain many gaps (the Wallacean shortfall). In this paper, we developed models to infer the size and placement of geographical ranges of hypothetical non-described species, based on the range size frequency distribution of anurans recently described in the Cerrado Biome, on the level of knowledge (number of inventories) and on surrogates for habitat suitability. The rationale for these models is as follow: (1) the range size frequency distribution of these species should be similar to the range-restricted species, which have been most recently described in the Cerrado Biome; (2) the probability of new discoveries will increase in areas with low biodiversity knowledge, mainly in suitable areas, and (3) assuming range continuity, new species should occupy adjacent cells only if the level of knowledge is low enough to allow the existence of undiscovered species. We ran a model based on the number of inventories only, and two models combining effects of number of inventories and two different estimates of habitat suitability, for a total of 100 replicates each. Finally, we performed a complementary analysis using simulated annealing to solve the set-covering problem for each simulation (i.e. finding the smallest number of cells so that all species are represented at least once), using extents of occurrence of 160 species (131 real anuran species plus 29 new simulated species). The revised reserve system that included information about unknown or poorly sampled taxa significantly shifted northwards, when compared to a system based on currently known species. This main result can be explained by the paucity of biodiversity data in this part of the biome, associated with its relatively high habitat suitability. As a precautionary measure, weighted by the inferred distribution data, the prioritization of a system of reserves in the north part of the biome appears to be defensible.
3246784|We examined the responses of a beetle assemblage to habitat complexity differences within a single habitat type, Sydney sandstone ridgetop woodland, using pitfall and flight-intercept trapping. Six habitat characters (tree canopy cover, shrub canopy cover, ground herb cover, soil moisture, amount of leaf litter, and amount of logs, rocks and debris) were scored between 0 and 3 using ordinal scales to reflect habitat complexity at survey sites. Pitfall trapped beetles were more species rich and of different composition in high complexity sites, compared with low complexity sites. Species from the Staphylinidae (Aleocharinae sp. 1 and sp. 2), Carabidae (Pamborus alternans Latreille), Corticariidae (Cartodere Thomson sp. 1) and Anobiidae (Mysticephala Ford sp. 1) were most clearly responsible for the compositional differences, preferring high complexity habitat. Affinities between general functional groupings of pitfall-trapped beetles and habitat variables were not clear at a low taxonomic resolution (family level). The composition and species richness of flight-intercept-trapped beetles were similar in high and low complexity sites. Our study demonstrates that discrete responses of the various functional groups of beetles are strongly associated with their feeding habits, indicated by differing habitat components from within overall composite habitat complexity measures. Although habitat preferences by beetle species may often reflect their foraging habits, clarification of the causal mechanisms underpinning the relationships between habitat complexity and beetles are critical for the development of general principles linking habitat, functional roles and diversity.
40800801|Aim The Rufous-backed Robin Turdus rufopalliatus is a bird endemic to the Pacific slope of Mexico. The species recently established populations in several localities in the Mexican Central Highlands. Based on available data, we modelled the range expansion of the Rufous-backed Robin in Mexico to understand the pattern, mechanisms and ecological and biogeographic implications of its expansion. Location Mexico. Methods We assessed the species' presence and habitat requirements at two spatial scales. At the site level, we evaluated the relationship between land use and species presence in an urban environment. At the country level, we generated a niche model. We then produced a dispersion model through the interpolation of points generated from information derived from the niche model, the location of records within and outside its native distribution range, the species' natural history, habitat requirements and its estimated dispersion rate (4.2 km year). Results The dispersion model predicted that the species will significantly increase its distribution range in Mexico in the coming decades. Its expansion would occur by a stepping-stone colonization of suitable habitat in areas of native vegetation and human settlements. The model predicted that the species should arrive on the Gulf slope of Mexico before 2025. Main conclusions Mechanisms that could explain the species' success in establishing viable populations outside its native distribution include its dispersion ability, competitive release, the urban heat island phenomenon and the trade of wild birds. The geographic range expansion of the Rufous-backed Robin will probably create new interactions with other species, particularly with close taxonomie and ecological relatives. The increase in the distribution range of the Rufous-backed Robin has resulted from direct and indirect human-induced dispersion; therefore, it cannot be considered a fading endemism. In part of its expanded range (to date the Mexican Central Highlands), it should be considered an invasive alien species.
4124767|This paper addresses the issues raised by McNyset and Blackburn (2006) in their response to Stockman et al. (2006). Re-evaluation of our published GARP analyses by McNyset and Blackburn showed that a much improved ecological niche model is obtained for predicting the distribution of the trapdoor spider genus Promyrmekiaphila in central/northern California. The improved niche model results in a substantially reduced omission error rate and a predictive model comparable to models obtained using other methods (GLM and BIOCLIM). However, the improved GARP models have a high commission error rate (> 0.75); consequently, the inferences regarding difficulties in modelling non-vagile taxa drawn by Stockman et al. remain valid. Finally, we discuss other relatively minor criticisms of our study raised by McNyset and Blackburn and issues related to the peer review of our original paper.
41058184|Aim We examine the regional dominance of California as a beachhead for marine biological invasions in western North America and assess the relative contribution of different transfer mechanisms to invasions over time. Location Western North America (California to Alaska, excluding Mexico). Methods We undertook extensive analysis of literature and collections records to characterize the invasion history of non-native species (invertebrates, microalgae and microorganisms) with established populations in coastal marine (tidal) waters of western North America through 2006. Using these data, we estimated (1) the proportion of first regional records of non-native species that occurred in California and (2) the relative contribution of transfer mechanisms to California invasions (or vector strength) over time. Results Excluding vascular plants and vertebrates, we identified 290 non-native marine species with established populations in western North America, and 79% had first regional records from California. Many (40-64%) of the non-native species in adjacent states and provinces were first reported in California, suggesting northward spread. California also drives the increasing regional rate of detected invasions. Of 257 non-native species established in California, 59% had first regional records in San Francisco Bay; 57% are known from multiple estuaries, suggesting secondary spread; and a majority were attributed to vessels (ballast water or hull fouling) or oysters, in some combination, but their relative contributions are not clear. For California, more than one vector was possible for 56% of species, and the potential contribution of ballast water, hull fouling and live trade increased over time, unlike other vectors. Main conclusions California, especially San Francisco Bay, plays a pivotal role for marine invasion dynamics for western North America, providing an entry point from which many species spread. This pattern is associated historically with high propagule supply and salinity. Any effective strategies to minimize new invasions throughout this region must (1) focus attention on California and (2) address current uncertainty and future shifts in vector strength.
40604221|Aim The highly adaptable estuarine crab (Carcinus maenas) has successfully invaded five temperate geographic regions outside of its native Europe. Here, we determine which environmental factors predict the current distribution of C. maenas and what the potential geographic range of this species might be. We also investigated whether the invasion potential of C. maenas differs with respect to the origin of a native subpopulation. Location Models were developed using global observation records of C. maenas. Methods Boosted regression trees were used to model observations from the (1) native, (2) invasive, (3) southern European, (4) northern European and (5) the combined native and invasive geographic ranges of C. maenas. Results Most established invasions were predicted mainly based on temperature.Interestingly, the environment encountered by established invasions failed to predict the majority of northern European populations; suggesting that invasion potential may differ between distinct native populations. Supporting this suggestion, a model of northern European populations, distinguished from southern European populations based on genetic structure, only predicted established invasions south of Nova Scotia. By contrast, a model of southern European populations predicted most established invasions. Main conclusions These results suggest that invasion potential depends on the European origin of an invasive population and that most invasions have arisen from southern Europe. Finally, a model based on combined native and invasive ranges of C. maenas identified potential geographic range extension along many currently invaded coastlines and the potential invasion of countries like Chile, China, Russia, Namibia and New Zealand.
2673288|Previous studies in the mountain fynbos of South Africa have demonstrated that short fire cycles favour the establishment of dense covers of understorey sprouters while longer fire intervals enable the establishment from seed of overstorey proteas and the formation of a overstorey. One consequence of these differences between fire cycle lengths is the effect that understorey sprouters and an overstorey protea canopy have on species richness. In the case of short fire intervals, species richness is decreased while longer intervals between fires allow species richness to decrease or increase depending on the patchiness of the overstorey canopy. Such results are suggestive of competitive effects between understorey sprouters and overstorey canopy proteas. In this study, data were collected from several pyric successional stages in mountain fynbos to study the effect of overstorey proteas on the growth and flowering of understorey sprouters since the last fire. Data were also collected to determine the effect that understorey sprouters had on the establishment and fecundity of overstorey protea species. Competitive interactions between overstorey proteas and sprouting understorey species were evident at all the sites studied. The vegetative growth and seed production of understorey sprouters, which grew under a canopy of overstorey proteas during the current interfire period, were significantly lower than that for plants growing in the open. In addition, the postfire growth and seed production of understorey sprouters were significantly lower for individuals, which grew under an overstorey protea canopy during the previous fire cycle, than for those individuals which grew in the open. The fecundity of overstorey proteas, which grew near understorey sprouters, was lower than that of plants which grew in the open. This effect was evident for up to the first 15 years after a fire. However, not all understorey sprouters affected the overstorey proteas equally. Also, seedlings of overstorey proteas established significantly less successfully in close proximity to understorey sprouters after a fire than in the open or under proteas. Finally, the results demonstrate that complex species-specific, understorey-overstorey interactions are important in mountain fynbos. For example, some overstorey species depend on trophically similar species to reduce potential competition from understorey sprouters for their successful establishment at a site.
20171980|Understanding entry pathways resulting from global trade is critical to assess the risks of introduction of invasive alien species (IAS). From 1996 onward, the import of timber from Russia and the Baltic States to Belgium dramatically increased, with more than one million cubic metres of coniferous round wood imported until 2004. Such a high volume could have served as entry pathway for exotic bark beetles from the East that have the potential to become forest insect pests upon establishment. We collected and cross-checked different data sources (FAOSTAT, Eurostat, National Bank of Belgium, Belgian Customs, the Belgian sawmills industry) regarding the import of timber in an attempt to trace back the spatial and temporal patterns of this trade, and to assess the expected validity of a pest risk analysis based on those data. We found that the timber trade between 1996 and 2004 is particularly dynamic in space and time, and may have allowed several opportunities for exotic bark-beetle introductions. In addition, the patterns of trade change so quickly from year to year that the existing data sources are essentially not adequate for IAS risk assessment in a near real-time fashion. The data are either comprehensive, but then aggregated at a too coarse level (space, time, or category) to be of real use in risk assessment, or available with adequate levels of details, in which case they are mostly partial or incomplete. Better accessibility to data and data exchanges between organizations in charge of trade data collection and plant protection would help better targeting of phytosanitary controls.
4539932|Habitat loss and fragmentation threaten a large proportion of terrestrial biodiversity, and identifying the ecological traits associated with extinction proneness is of widespread interest. We used a multivariate statistical approach to identify combinations of ecological traits that best allowed us to identify extinction-prone amphibians and reptiles in a fragmented landscape in north-eastern Bolivia. Extinction-prone amphibians were rare and did not utilize the savannah matrix separating forest islands, whereas extinction-prone reptiles were trophically specialized. Rarity and matrix aversion are among the most widely reported correlates to extinction proneness, and we argue that an increased understanding of their role as drivers of extinction processes is necessary. We suggest that the absence of reptilian vertebrate predators may exacerbate trophic cascades in habitat patches.
2673300|Two South African mountain fynbos sites, similar in drainage, elevation, slope angle, slope aspect and soil type but with differing fire histories, were studied to measure how the effect of high densities of overstorey proteas in one fire cycle affects the -diversity levels of the plant community in the following fire-cycle, how their repeated absence due to several short fire-cycles affects their species richness and finally, at what spatial scale such patterns are most appropriately measured. High prefire canopy cover percentages and densities of overstorey proteas increase the postfire -diversity of understorey species. In addition, the increase in species richness observed occurred for all higher plant life history types present. At sites where one or more short fire cycles resulted in the repeated absence of overstorey proteas, the number of plant species present in the understorey was lower than at a site where overstorey proteas persisted. These results are dependent on the spatial scale at which the -diversity of understorey species is measured. At small quadrat sizes (<5 m<sup>2</sup>), overstorey proteas decrease the number of understorey species present, while at larger quadrat sizes (100 m<sup>2</sup>) higher species richness is observed. The contradiction in conclusions when -diversity is measured at different spatial scales can be attributed to the patchiness of fynbos communities. Overstorey proteas play an important role in maintaining the patchiness component of fynbos communities by diminishing the effect of understorey resprouting species, making available regeneration niches for the maintenance of plant species richness. Where small quadrats are used, the effect of patchiness on the dynamics of the mountain fynbos community is lost. Thus, it is the fire history prior to the last fire and how it affects overstorey proteas that is important in the determination of -diversity levels in mountain fynbos plant communities.
20171968|Whether non-native plant invasions are causes, consequences, or independent of the low species diversity in recipient ecosystems remains a debated question. We tried to test these three hypotheses in the special case of the American black cherry (Prunus serotina Ehrh.), a gap-dependent tree species, which is invading European temperate forests. We compared plant communities, soil properties, and disturbance history between P. serotina-invaded and uninvaded paired-stands in a managed mixed forest. Relationships between invasion, disturbances, plant communities, and environmental conditions were investigated using redundancy analyses with variation partitioning. Several soil characteristics differed between paired stands, but were rather components of stand invasibility than invasion effects, except for topsoil available phosphorus. The disturbance history was similar among paired stands except for the amount of storm-induced tree falls, which correlated with the invader's density. Wild boar-disturbed soil areas were more important beneath P. serotina canopies, suggesting a positive feedback on its own establishment. Overall, species assemblages in invaded and uninvaded stands were similar; their ecological inconsistency suggested a management-sustained non-equilibrium. Habitat conditions and disturbances explained most of the variation in both plant diversity and P. serotina density, the last two factors exhibiting a weak direct association. We conclude that in managed forest ecosystems where plant communities are mainly driven by non-interactive factors and immigration processes, non-native plant species can naturalize without being directly influenced by measured features of the plant community in the receiving environment on the short term.
20171984|We investigated the existence of chorotypes -- assemblages of species with similar geographical ranges -- of invasive species in a host territory, and their potential use to advocate similar control or management strategies for species in the same chorotype. We analysed the distribution of 13 exotic terrestrial vertebrate species (six birds, six mammals, and one reptile) with well-known distributions in mainland Spain. We used the presence/absence data on a grid of 10 km  10 km UTM cells from the Atlases of terrestrial vertebrates of Spain. These data were aggregated to a grid of 50 km  50 km UTM cells, because it entailed no loss of meaningful information and allowed dealing with a much lower number of cells. Using cluster analysis and a probabilistic assessment of the classification, we identified seven significant chorotypes: four multispecific and three monospecific. The compound chorotypes grouped together species that tended to share certain characteristics about their introduction, release cause, establishment, and spread. We modelled the chorotypes using a favourability function based on a generalized linear model and 31 variables related to spatial situation, topography, lithology, climatic stability, energy availability, water availability, disturbances, productivity, and human activity. Climatic factors affected the favourability for every chorotype, whereas human variables had a high influence in the distribution of three chorotypes involving eight species. On the basis of these variables, we identified favourable areas for all the chorotypes in mainland Spain. The favourability for a chorotype in an area may be a useful criterion for evaluating the local conservation concern due to the whole set of species. Favourable but unoccupied areas can be used to infer possible colonization areas for each chorotype. We recommend using chorotypes to optimize broad-scale surveillance of invasive species.
41058183|Aim The jaguar, Panthera onca, is a species of global conservation concern. In Mexico, the northernmost part of its distribution range, its conservation status, is particularly critical, while its potential and actual distribution is poorly known. We propose an ensemble model (EM) of the potential distribution for the jaguar in Mexico and identify the priority areas for conservation. Location Mexico. Methods We generated our EM based on three presence-only methods (Ecological Niche Factor Analysis, Mahalanobis distance, Maxent) and considering environmental, biological and anthropogenic factors. We used this model to evaluate the efficacy of the existing Mexican protected areas (PAs), to evaluate the adequacy of the jaguar conservation units (JCUs) and to propose new areas that should be considered for conservation and management of the species in Mexico. Results Our results outline that 16% of Mexico (c. 312,000 km) can be considered as suitable for the presence of the jaguar. Furthermore, 13% of the suitable areas are included in existing PAs and 14% are included in JCUs (Sanderson et al., 2002). Main conclusions Clearly much more should be carried out to establish a proactive conservation strategy. Based on our results, we propose here new jaguar conservation and management areas that are important for a nationwide conservation blueprint.
3696931|A key requirement for systematic conservation planning is the availability of good quality and comparable data about the biodiversity. However, for many highly diverse countries, this information is not available. Here we present the methodology and the results of the three-part construction of a conservation planning database in Colombia: (1) the actual distribution of the ecosystems; (2) their original-potential distribution, which is important to calculate fixed targets for conservation; and (3) the chorological types, which are groups of spatial related ecosystems that account for biodiversity process that operate at larger scales. The procedure consists of integrating the results of the interpretation of satellite images, and the construction of ecological diagrams and biogeographical regions. The limits of the original-potential ecosystems in the transformed landscapes can either still be seen on the images or are reconstructed on the base of the information from the ecological diagrams. The chorological types are constructed by clustering of ecosystems on the base of the shared boundary length. The implementation for Colombia resulted in maps of 337 ecosystems and 63 chorological types. This database was successfully used for the identification of the priorities for conservation.
40930622|Aim Data on spatial and temporal turnover in species composition within a region is essential to design regional protected areas. Montane systems are often recognized as biodiversity hotspots. The primary objective of this study is to identify patterns of montane bird diversity across multiple spatial and temporal scales using an additive diversity partitioning framework. Location The Ailao Mountains, central Yunnan Province, China. Methods We used point counts to sample bird communities in four elevational zones, on eastern and western slopes, during both the breeding and the nonbreeding seasons. Diversity (richness and Shannon) was partitioned across space (points, elevational zones and slopes) and time (seasons). We used permutation tests to compare observed values to values expected by random chance. A complementary cluster analysis was also used to evaluate beta diversity. Results Overall, the gamma diversity was attributed to significantly higher beta diversity (relative to that of randomization tests) among elevational zones and, to a lesser extent, between slopes. For Shannon-Wiener Index, beta diversity between seasons was significantly higher than expected and had a similar contribution to the gamma diversity as with beta diversity between slopes. Hierarchical cluster analysis supported the findings for Shannon-Wiener Index. The contribution of beta diversity among points to gamma diversity within each elevational zone generally lessened with increasing elevation. Main conclusions Our results show significantly high levels of beta diversity among elevational zones and between slopes, as well as between seasons for Shannon diversity, in a small area of the Ailao Mountain range. Thus, a regional montane reserve system should cover the entire elevational gradient and multiple slopes, rather than only the montane crest. Furthermore, higher pattern diversity in lower elevational zones suggests that larger areas should be preserved at lower elevational zones. Finally, the design of regional reserve systems require more studies conducted at multiple seasons at a regional scale.
20172032|Extensive distributional data bases are key tools in ecological research, and good-quality data are required to provide reliable conservation strategies and an understanding of biodiversity patterns and processes. Although the evaluation of data bases requires the incorporation of estimates of sampling effort and bias, no studies have focused on these aspects for freshwater biodiversity data. We used here a comprehensive data base of water beetles from the Iberian Peninsula and the Balearic Islands, and examine whether these data provide an unbiased, reliable picture of their diversity and distribution in the study area. Based on theoretical estimates using the Clench function on the accumulated number of records as a surrogate of sampling effort, about a quarter of the Iberian and Balearic 50  50 km Universal Transverse Mercator grid cells can be considered well prospected, with more than 70% of the theoretical species richness actually recorded. These well-surveyed cells are not evenly distributed across biogeographical and physicoclimatic subregions, reflecting some geographical bias in the distribution of sampling effort. Our results suggest that recording was skewed by relatively simple variables affecting collector activity, such as the perceived 'attractiveness' of mountainous landscapes and protected areas with recently described species, and accessibility of sampling sites (distance from main research centres). We emphasize the importance of these evaluation exercises, which are useful to locate areas needed of further sampling as well as to identify potential biases in the distribution of current biodiversity patterns.
41242804|Aim Many aquatic invertebrates produce dormant life-history stages as a means to endure inhospitable environments and to facilitate natural long-distance dispersal, yet we have little understanding of the role of dormant stages as a mechanism for human-mediated introductions of non-indigenous species. We explore the survival of invertebrate dormant eggs in collected ships' ballast sediment over a 1-year period to determine relative invasion potential across taxa (i.e. rotifers, copepods, dadocerans and bryozoans) and different habitats (freshwater, marine). Location Canadian Atlantic and Pacific coasts and Laurentian Great Lakes. Methods During 2007 and 2008, 19 ballast samples were collected as a part of a larger study. The degradation rate of dormant eggs was assessed by enumerating dormant eggs and by conducting viability hatching experiments. Results Taxa examined included rotifers, copepods, anomopods, onychopods and bryozoans. Dormant eggs of rotifers degraded at the highest rate of all taxa examined, with no viable eggs remaining within 10 months. Copepods showed a less rapid degradation rate than rotifers. The degradation rate of anomopod dormant eggs was significantly slower than that of both rotifers and copepods. Onychopods and bryozoans did not visibly degrade at all over 12 months. Viability hatching experiments were successful for rotifers, copepods, and anomopods. Onychopods and bryozoans did not hatch during any of the three hatching trials. Main conclusions Dormancy is not equally beneficial to all invertebrate taxa. Our results indicate that dormant eggs of rotifers and copepods degrade at a rapid rate and may not pose high invasion risk. In contrast, the slow degradation rate of anomopod dormant eggs and the lack of degradation of onychopod and bryozoan dormant eggs could result in high invasion risk because of their accumulation in ballast tanks. Species having resistant dormant eggs mostly belong to freshwater taxa making freshwater habitats at higher invasion risk by dormant invertebrates than marine habitats.
40800805|Aim We investigated patterns of genetic diversity among invasive populations of Ampithoe valida and Jassa marmorata from the Pacific North American coast to assess the accuracy of morphological identification and determine whether or not cryptic diversity and multiple introductions contribute to the contemporary distribution of these species in the region. Location Native range: Atlantic North American coast; Invaded range: Pacific North American coast. Methods We assessed indices of genetic diversity based on DNA sequence data from the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) gene, determined the distribution of COI haplotypes among populations in both the invasive and putative native ranges of A. valida and J. marmorata and reconstructed phylogenetic relationships among COI haplotypes using both maximum parsimony and Bayesian approaches. Results Phylogenetic inference indicates that inaccurate species-level identifications by morphological criteria are common among Jassa specimens. In addition, our data reveal the presence of three well supported but previously unrecognized clades of A. valida among specimens in the north-eastern Pacific. Different species of Jassa and different genetic lineages of Ampithoe exhibit striking disparity in geographic distribution across the region as well as substantial differences in genetic diversity indices. Main conclusions Molecular genetic methods greatly improve the accuracy and resolution of identifications for invasive benthic marine amphipods at the species level and below. Our data suggest that multiple cryptic introductions o Ampithoe have occurred in the north-eastern Pacific and highlight uncertainty regarding the origin and invasion histories of both Jassa and Ampithoe species. Additional morphological and genetic analyses are necessary to clarify the taxonomy and native biogeography of both amphipod genera.
2999816|Seven methods for predicting species diversity from inventory data were tested based on two model data sets. These data sets, derived from state automobile license plates observed in Mexico City and Lawrence, Kansas, had the advantage of providing known `communities' to be sampled, allowing evaluation of different inference methods Of the seven methods, those of Chao (1984), Clench (Soberon & LLorente, 1993), and model M
2999791|The concept of endemism is useful in quantifying the biological uniqueness of an area, and has been used by many authors as a meaningful alternative to simple species richness. The traditional definition of endemism includes those species with ranges restricted to a particular region, and therefore is useful only in reference to that region. To compare different regions, however, a standardized approach is required, so several authors began using area-based definitions. Accordingly, those species with ranges smaller than a particular area (e.g. 50,000 km
40604246|Aim A major issue in ecology, biogeography, conservation biology and invasion biology is the extent to which climate, and hence climate change, contributes to the positions of species' range boundaries. Thirty years of rapid climate warming provides an excellent opportunity to test the hypothesis that climate acts as a major constraint on range boundaries, treating anthropogenic climate change as a large-scale experiment. Location UK and global data, and literature. Methods This article analyses the frequencies with which species have responded to climate change by shifting their range boundaries. It does not consider abundance or other changes. Results For the majority of species, boundaries shifted in a direction that is concordant with being a response to climate change; 84% of all species have expanded in a polewards direction as the climate has warmed (for the best data available), which represents an excess of 68% of species after taking account of the fact that some species may shift in this direction for non-climatic reasons. Other data sets also show an excess of animal range boundaries expanding in the expected direction. Main conclusions Climate is likely to contribute to the majority of terrestrial and freshwater range boundaries. This generalization excludes species that are endemic to specific islands, lakes, rivers and geological outcrops, although these local endemics are not immune from the effects of climate change. The observed shifts associated with recent climate change are likely to have been brought about through both direct and indirect (changes to species' interactions) effects of climate; indirect effects are discussed in relation to laboratory experiments and invasive species. Recent observations of range boundary shifts are consistent with the hypothesis that climate contributes to, but is not the sole determinant of, the position of the range boundaries of the majority of terrestrial animal species.
3246722|Local biological communities are made up of species, each of which has its own particular relationship with the environment. To the extent that these autecological niches limit species' distributions, and by extension community composition, models of species' ecological niches can predict species composition at particular sites, or at least provide a null hypothesis of potential species composition in the absence of effects of species interactions. We developed distributional predictions (ecological niche models) for 89 species occurring in dry tropical forest in the Balsas Basin of south-western Mexico using an interpolation technique, and predicted the species likely to occur at 8 sites across the region. Onsite field inventory data were then used to test the community predictions, all of which were statistically significant. These results suggest that inventory efforts can be made more efficient by development beforehand of hypotheses that focus onsite collecting and inventory.
4539924|Despite a growing interest in species distribution modelling, relatively little attention has been paid to spatial autocorrelation and non-stationarity. Both spatial autocorrelation (the tendency for adjacent locations to be more similar than distant ones) and non-stationarity (the variation in modelled relationships over space) are likely to be common properties of ecological systems. This paper focuses on non-stationarity and uses two local techniques, geographically weighted regression (GWR) and varying coefficient modelling (VCM), to assess its impact on model predictions. We extend two published studies, one on the presence-absence of calandra larks in Spain and the other on bird species richness in Britain, to compare GWR and VCM with the more usual global generalized linear modelling (GLM) and generalized additive modelling (GAM). For the calandra lark data, GWR and VCM produced better-fitting models than GLM or GAM. VCM in particular gave significantly reduced spatial autocorrelation in the model residuals. GWR showed that individual predictors became stationary at different spatial scales, indicating that distributions are influenced by ecological processes operating over multiple scales. VCM was able to predict occurrence accurately on independent data from the same geographical area as the training data but not beyond, whereas the GAM produced good results on all areas. Individual predictions from the local methods often differed substantially from the global models. For the species richness data, VCM and GWR produced far better predictions than ordinary regression. Our analyses suggest that modellers interpolating data to produce maps for practical actions (e.g. conservation) should consider local methods, whereas they should not be used for extrapolation to new areas. We argue that local methods are complementary to global methods, revealing details of habitat associations and data properties which global methods average out and miss.
4539940|Although the Atlantic waters of North America support hundreds of thousands of loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta), remarkably little is known regarding their migratory ecology and habitat use. We integrate satellite tracking with remotely sensed oceanographie data to uncover two different migratory strategies used by loggerhead turtles at the northern part of their range. Most turtles travelled from the nesting beach to forage at higher latitudes in summer, before migrating south to wintering grounds in the autumn. Others moved south after nesting to forage for up to 514 days and did not make an autumn migration. Both groups utilized warm waters at the very edge of the Gulf Stream during winter: for southerly turtles obviating seasonal migration, and for northerly turtles minimizing the distance, time and energy required to reach northern areas for subsequent foraging seasons, avoiding lethally cold winter temperatures in inshore waters at the same latitude, and reducing energy costs that would be incurred within the fast-flowing Gulf Stream. Females made long resting dives of up to 7 h 24 min, effectively hibernating during the colder months. Offshore federal waters of the USA constitute a more important habitat for both foraging and wintering turtles than previously appreciated. These areas are potential hotspots for interaction with fisheries and proposed US military training activities and should receive special monitoring efforts to fully assess the extent of overlap.
3246684|One of the most dramatic landscape changes during the 20th century in Sweden, like in most of Europe, has been the reduction and fragmentation of semi-natural grasslands. Using a set of remnant semi-natural grasslands, chosen to be as similar as possible, but differing in size, we have examined whether size of remnant fragments of traditionally managed semi-natural grasslands in Sweden is related to patterns of species richness and composition. We focused on edge-to-interior relationships, since we expected that a possible impact from invasive habitat generalists would be manifested in a gradient from the edge of fragments to their interior. We found no relationship between size of grassland fragments and (a) overall species richness, (b) species richness at different spatial scales, and (c) abundance of some typical invader species or species characteristic of semi-natural grasslands. However, the results indicated that larger grasslands have a comparatively larger number of species in the edges, whereas the opposite pattern was found in smaller grasslands. The similarity in species composition between the edge and the interior of the pastures also increased with grassland size. Thus, even though the overall species richness is still unaffected by reduction in grassland fragment size, the edges of smaller grasslands show signs of degradation, i.e. reduction in species richness and a decreased similarity to the grassland interior. We suggest that these kinds of effects may be early signs of fragmentation effects that in the future will result in species loss even if the present distribution of semi-natural grasslands is maintained.
20532123|Aim: Although urban areas only occupy c. 2.8% of the earth's land surface, urbanization threatens biodiversity as areas of high human population density often coincide with high biodiversity. Therefore, nature conservation should concentrate on both remote areas and densely populated regions. Protecting rare plant species in rural and urban areas can contribute to the protection of biodiversity. We therefore need to understand why species are rare. Studies on causes of rarity often concentrate on either plant traits or extrinsic threats (such as habitat fragmentation or nitrogen enrichment). However, there are only a few studies that combine traits and extrinsic threats, although such analyses might clarify causes of rarity. We assessed how the affinity of vascular plant species to urban land use ('urbanity') interacts with plant traits in determining species frequency. Location: Germany, resolution c. 12 km  11 km. Methods: Species with a low frequency may be rare because they occur in rare habitats or because of other reasons, although their habitat is frequent. Therefore, we calculated the frequency of species corrected for habitat frequency, i.e. relative species frequency. We explained relative species frequency by the interactions of species traits and species affinity to urban land use using generalized linear models. Simultaneous autoregressive error models controlled for phylogenetic relationships of species. Results: Relative species frequency depends on species affinity to urban land use, independent of the different interactions between traits and urbanity used as predictors. The higher the urbanity the higher is species frequency. Urbanity interacts with species preferences towards temperature and soil acidity. Moreover, dispersal, nitrogen preferences and origin explain relative species frequency, amongst others. Main conclusions: Many rare species, especially those preferring cool or acidic habitats might already have disappeared from urban areas. Analyses that combine species traits and environmental effects can explain the causes of rarity and help to derive better conservation strategies.
20532100|Aim: Urban environments are often characterized as supporting a few abundant, generalist species best adapted to living alongside humans, and as such, cities are seen as agents of biotic homogenization. However, there are surprisingly few descriptions of biological populations found in cities. Here, we provide the first complete city-wide population estimates of birds for any UK city, and examine the conservation status of the assemblage in comparison with the country's avifauna at large. Location: Sheffield city, central UK Methods: We surveyed birds in every 500 m  500 m square across the 160 km of the city. Using a Distance sampling protocol, we estimated bird population sizes for the city and compared these with the size of the human population. We also compared the conservation status of the city's avian population with that of birds across the UK as a whole. Results: Aggregation of population estimates for the 77 species observed during the surveys produced a total estimate of 602,995 (95% confidence interval (CI): 404,565-942,573) breeding birds, equating to 1.18 birds per person. The size of the non-breeding population was similar at 578,603 (464,396-728,574) individuals, or 1.13 birds per person. Surveys revealed only three non-native species, but relatively few species of national conservation concern. However, some species of conservation concern achieved very high population densities within the city, and the overall density of birds was more than six times that of the nation at large. Main conclusions: If declines in some species are to be arrested or reversed, conservation effort will need to focus much more strongly on understanding and managing urban populations, because these might buffer some species against wholesale regional population depletion, particularly where intensive agriculture in the surrounding hinterland has led to declines in bird populations at large. Such a focus will require a significant increase in the priority and resources devoted to conservation activities in urban areas.
20172034|Although a number of recent studies have demonstrated biotic homogenization, these have mainly focused on larger spatial scales. Homogenizing effects are equally important at finer resolutions, e.g. through increasing similarity between habitats, which may result in a simplification of ecosystem structure and function. One major cause of homogenization is the expanding ranges of alien species, although it is not clear whether they are inherently homogenizing at smaller scales. We therefore assessed whether the alien flora is less complex across habitats than the resident native flora of Mediterranean Islands. From a regional data base, we examined floristic lists for between-habitat taxonomic and functional similarity, and within-habitat functional diversity, using resampled data sets to control for sample size biases. Aliens and natives showed equivalent complexity in most respects. At the taxonomic level, between-island and between-habitat similarities were almost identical, and when ecosystem function was measured by a functional group classification system, this was also true of between-habitat similarities and within-habitat diversities. When ecosystem function was measured using Grime's CSR classification, aliens were found to be more functionally homogenous between-habitats and less functionally diverse within habitats. However, since the CSR profiles of aliens and natives differed, simplification is not inevitable due to ecological segregation of the two floras (aliens tend to be recruited to disturbed habitats rather than displacing natives). One deficiency is a lack of large scale species abundance data. A simple simulation exercise indicated that this is likely to lead to substantial overestimation of true levels of similarity, although would only influence the comparison between aliens and natives if they have different abundance distribution curves. The results indicate that alien floras are not intrinsically more simple than natives, but a higher proportion of competitive strategists among aliens may still cause small-scale homogenization as these include many strong competitors that are likely to dominate communities.
20171977|In recent years, there has been growing concern about how species invasions and extinctions could change the distinctiveness of formerly disparate fauna and flora, a process called biotic homogenization. In the present study, a null model of biotic of homogenization was developed and applied to the European freshwater fish fauna. We found that non-native fish species led to the greatest homogenization in south-western Europe and greatest differentiation in north-eastern Europe. Comparing these observed patterns to those expected by our null model empirically demonstrated that biotic homogenization is a non-random ecological pattern, providing evidence for previous assumptions. The place of origin of non-native species was also considered by distinguishing between exotic (originating from outside Europe) and translocated species (originating from within Europe). We showed that exotic and translocated species generated distinct geographical patterns of biotic homogenization across Europe because of their contrasting effects on the changes in community similarity among river basins. Translocated species promoted homogenization among basins, whereas exotic species tended to decrease their compositional similarity. Quantifying the individual effect of exotic and translocated species is therefore an absolute prerequisite to accurately assess the spatial dynamics of biotic homogenization.
40390719|Aim We argue that 'propagule pressure', a key term in invasion biology, has been attributed at least three distinct definitions (with usage of a related term causing additional confusion). All of the definitions refer to fundamental concepts within the invasion process, with the result that the distinct importance of these different concepts has been at best diluted, and at worst lost. Location Global. Methods We reviewed pertinent literature on propagule pressure to resolve confusion about different uses of the term 'propagule pressure' and we introduced a new term for one variant, colonization pressure. We conducted a computer simulation whereby the introduction of species is represented as a simple sampling process to elucidate the relationship between propagule and colonization pressure. Results We defined colonization pressure as the number of species introduced or released to a single location, some of which will go on to establish a self-sustaining population and some of which will not. We subsequently argued that colonization pressure should serve as a null hypothesis for understanding temporal or spatial differences in exotic species richness, as the more species that are introduced, the more we should expect to establish. Finally, using a simple simulation, we showed that propagule pressure is related to colonization pressure, but in a non-linear manner. 1 Main conclusion We suggest that the nature of the relationship between propagule pressure and colonization pressure, as well as the efficacy of various proxy measures of each, require more detailed exploration if invasion ecology is to continue to develop into a more predictive science.
40604247|Aim To identify key research questions and challenges that will, if addressed in a timely manner, significantly advance the field of freshwater fish biogeography and conservation. Location Globe. Methods By drawing on expertise from different regions of the world, we integrate an illustrative conspectus of recent scientific advancements in fish biogeography with a prospectus of needed areas of scientific inquiry to identify information gaps and priority research needs to advance the science. Results We identified the following core challenges: (1) Testing current and forging new theories in biogeography; (2) Advancing a trait-based biogeography of freshwater fishes; (3) Quantifying extinction risk and loss of fish species in a changing environment; (4) Evaluating the magnitude and geography of extinction debt for freshwater fishes; (5) Elucidating the patterns and drivers of freshwater fish invasions; (6) Forecasting the future geography of freshwater fishes; (7) Understanding the interactive effects of multiple Stressors in freshwater ecosystems; (8) Quantifying new features of the biodiversity crisis: fish faunal homogenization and the emergence of novel assemblages; (9) Promoting scientific rigour in emerging freshwater fish conservation strategies and (10) Improving conservation planning strategies for freshwater fish species. Main conclusions By reflecting on recent scientific progress in fish conservation biogeography, we have identified a set of core challenges and priorities requiring future research investment.
2673299|Although acknowledged to be common, intraspecific relationships between local abundance and site occupancy have been examined in detail for few species. Here we report such analyses for six widespread species of breeding birds in Britain, using data from the Common Birds Census. These exhibit a range of temporal trends, including different combinations of increase and decrease in abundance and occupancy. Overall, two species have a statistically significant positive abundance-occupancy relationship on farmland but no relationship in woodland (collared dove, tree sparrow), one a significant positive relationship on farmland and in woodland (magpie), two a significant positive relationship on farmland and a negative one in woodland (redstart, song thrush), and one a significant negative abundance-occupancy relationship on farmland but no relationship in woodland (sparrowhawk). The population dynamics associated with these patterns are used to discern their underlying mechanisms.
3696862|This article presents an analysis of plant species richness and diversity and its association with climatic and soil variables along a 1300-m elevation gradient on the Cerro
40800794|Aim We investigated whether faunas of lentie macroinvertebrates differed among two landscape types: (1) those that are largely covered in forests (presumed to be in a more pre-human-impact condition) and (2) those that are completely cleared for agricultural exploitation (massively altered). Location Five pairs of landscapes (each pair referred to as a region) -one of each landscape type -across a 30,000 km region of north-central Victoria, Australia. Methods Each individual waterbody was surveyed three times (austral spring 2006, autumn 2007, and spring 2007) for invertebrates. Waterbodies were characterized by measurements of static (e. g. abutting vegetation cover) and labile (e. g. pH) variables. Data were analysed using hierarchical Bayesian models of species richness, -and -diversities and functional feeding groups. Assemblage composition was related to landscape and in-waterbody characteristics. Results Neither measured, nor asymptotic estimates of, species richness differed among landscape types, notwithstanding consistent differences in in-waterbody habitat characteristics among waterbodies in the two landscape types. There were no discernible differences in patterns of -and -diversities at landscape scales relating to landscape type. Habitat diversity of waterbodies at the landscape scale did not affect -diversity, although distinct waterbodies within landscapes tended to have more distinct faunas. Main conclusions The lentie macroinvertebrate faunas are relatively homogeneous over the entire region, with little differentiation between wooded and cleared landscapes. The regional fauna may be a homogenized subset of native species, possibly arising from the huge numerical predominance of lentie habitats in agricultural landscapes producing ' spill-over' effects into forested landscapes. Of taxa more frequently found in one or other landscape type, trophic group diversity was greater in forested landscapes.
20171946|The binary classification of landscapes into suitable vs. unsuitable areas underlies several prominent theories in conservation biogeography. However, a binary classification is not always appropriate. The textural discontinuity hypothesis provides an alternative theoretical framework to examine the geographical distribution of species, and does not rely on a binary classification scheme. The texture of a given landscape is the combination of its vertical structural complexity and horizontal spatial grain. The textural discontinuity hypothesis states that biophysical features in the environment are scaled in a discontinuous way, and that discontinuities in the body size distribution of animals mirror these biophysical discontinuities. As a result of this relationship, a complex landscape texture should be associated with small-bodied animals, whereas a simple landscape texture should be associated with larger-bodied animals. We examined this hypothesis for birds in five landscapes in south-eastern Australia that represented a gradient from simple to complex landscape texture. In landscapes with a complex texture, the number of detections of small birds was higher than expected, and the number of detections of larger-bodied birds was lower than expected. The opposite pattern was found in landscapes with a simple texture. The pattern remained significant when only bird species found in each of the five landscapes were considered, which demonstrated that the association of landscape texture with body size was not an artefact of landscapes differing in their species pools. Understanding the effects of landscape texture on species distribution patterns may be a promising research frontier for conservation biogeography. We hypothesize that the active management of landscape texture may be used to attract or deter animals of certain body sizes. Consistent with other theories, the textural discontinuity hypothesis therefore suggests that managing entire landscapes, rather than only predefined patches, is an important conservation strategy.
4539981|Human activities affect even the most remote and best preserved places on Earth. One of those places is Dalhousie Springs, Witjira National Park, in the arid centre of Australia. In 2003 we resurveyed the fish communities in springs to document changes since an earlier survey in 1991. Over the 12 years there were 18 population extirpations and only two colonizations, so total occurrences of five native species in 30 springs decreased from 83 to 67 populations. One species, the endemic Dalhousie goby, Chlamydogobius gloveri, accounted for 12 of the 18 population extirpations. Each fish species tended to persist in springs larger than some threshold size. Extirpations were related to spring size, with smaller springs more readily loosing populations, and to major habitat changes, which included large increases in the tropical reed Phragmites and concomitant decreases in open water, disturbed habitats, and dissolved oxygen. Extirpations of fish populations can be attributed primarily to habitat changes associated with reduced disturbance and herbivory as a result of the removal of feral livestock. These changes highlight the keystone impacts of large mammals on habitats and biotas of desert springs, and should be considered in management practices and policy decisions.
3696839|Although the concepts of scale and biological diversity independently have received rapidly increasing attention in the scientific literature since the 1980s, the rate at which the two concepts have been investigated jointly has grown much more slowly. We find that scale considerations have been incorporated explicitly into six broad areas of investigation related to biological diversity: (1) heterogeneity within and among ecosystems, (2) disturbance ecology, (3) conservation and restoration, (4) invasion biology, (5) importance of temporal scale for understanding processes, and (6) species responses to environmental heterogeneity. In addition to placing the papers of this Special Feature within the context of brief summaries of the expanding literature on these six topics, we provide an overview of tools useful for integrating scale considerations into studies of biological diversity. Such tools include hierarchical and structural-equation modelling, kriging, variable-width buffers, k-fold cross-validation, and cascading graph diagrams, among others. Finally, we address some of the major challenges and research frontiers that remain, and conclude with a look to the future.
20532067|Aim: The niche hypothesis could explain why some species introduced to new locations reach higher densities than in their native range: it posits that the new environment provides more abundant or higher quality resources or habitat, a more suitable physical environment or both. We investigate whether 11 bird species occur at higher densities in their introduced range than in their native range and whether the differences can be explained by the availability of preferred habitat or the suitability of climatic conditions in their introduced range relative to their native range. Location: South Island, New Zealand (the introduced range); UK (the native range). Methods: We first develop a series of models that accurately predict the density of 11 bird species at 54 UK farmland sites, which are closely matched to our New Zealand sites, from habitat and climatic variables. We then use these models to predict the density of the 11 species at 54 New Zealand farmland sites and compare the predicted and observed values. Results: Actual densities at New Zealand sites were on average (median) 22 times (range: 1-6361) higher than predicted from the UK models and similarly higher than actually observed at comparable UK sites. Habitat and climatic variables can accurately predict bird densities in the UK but grossly underestimate densities for all species except Turdus merula in New Zealand. Main conclusions: These findings indicate that factors other than the measured habitat and climatic variables must differ between the two regions and explain the much higher densities of New Zealand birds. We suggest that introduced birds, other than T. merula, in New Zealand may still experience enhanced niche opportunities due to greater availability of higher quality resources within habitats, release from natural enemy regulation, less exposure to extreme weather events, particularly during winter, or some combination of these processes.
4124762|Several recent studies have suggested that rare species are not randomly distributed throughout plant taxa. This would appear to apply to North American ferns, which are frequently over-represented on local lists of rare plant species. However, such lists often paint a skewed portrait of the true situation because of our tendency to recognize the rarity of well-known and charismatic species while ignoring that of lesser-known or less-appreciated species. In order to verify if this over-representation of ferns is a real and consistent trend throughout local floras in North America, we used data from what we consider to be the most complete and objective available database: NatureServe Explorer (http://www.natureserve.org/explorer/). We compiled data on total vascular plant species, total fern species, as well as rare vascular plant species and rare fern species for each North American subnational (Canadian province or US state) flora. Rare species were defined as those belonging to one of NatureServe's 'at risk' categories. The null hypothesis that the contribution of rare ferns to total rare species did not differ from their contribution to the total vascular flora was assessed using 
3246805|As part of an overall 'biodiversity crisis', many amphibian populations are in decline throughout the world. Numerous factors have contributed to these declines, including habitat destruction, pathogens, increasing ultraviolet (UV) radiation, introduced non-native species and contaminants. In this paper we review the contribution of increasing UV radiation and environmental contamination to the global decline of amphibian populations. Both UV radiation and environmental contaminants can affect amphibians at all life stages. Exposure to UV radiation and to certain contaminants can kill amphibians and induce sublethal affects in embryos, larvae and adults. Moreover, UV radiation and contaminants may interact with one another synergistically. Synergistic interactions of UV radiation with contaminants can enhance the detrimental effects of the contaminant and UV radiation.
40390703|Aim Using New Zealand land snails as a case study, we evaluated recent spatial modelling approaches for the analysis of diversity in species-rich invertebrate groups. Applications and prospects for improved conservation assessment were investigated. Location New Zealand. Methods The study used a spatially extensive and taxonomically comprehensive, plot-based dataset on community structure in New Zealand land snails. Generalized regression analysis and spatial prediction (GRASP) was used to model and predict species richness as a function of environmental variables (including aspects of climate, soils and vegetation). Generalized dissimilarity modelling (GDM) was used to model turnover in species composition in relation to environmental and geographical distances, and to assess community similarity and the representativeness of the reserve network. Results Observed land snail richness in 20 x 20 m plots ranged from 1 to 74 (mean 17.5). The GRASP model explained a modest 27% of the variation in richness. The GDM model explained 57% of the variation in species turnover and indicated approximately equal amounts related to environmental (Cody's beta diversity) and geographical distance (Cody's gamma diversity). Temperature and moisture were the most important environmental variables. Results indicate that snail distributions are not only sorted by environment but are also strongly influenced by historical effects consistent with those expected of poorly dispersing taxa that have persisted in rfugia during past climatic change. The GDM model enabled spatial classifications of snail communities, highlighting diverse communities in heterogeneous regions, such as the South Island mountains, and also enabled continuous depictions of community similarity and adequacy of New Zealand's protected natural areas network. Main conclusions The GRASP and GDM analyses allowed us to model and depict spatial patterns of diversity in land snail communities involving 845 species, and produce community classifications and estimates of community similarity. These tools advance conservation assessment in species-rich groups, but require further conceptual and methodological development.
40604243|Aim At first detection, little information is typically known about an invader's characteristics, true arrival date or spatial extent. Yet, before management options such as control or eradication can be considered, we need to know where a nuisance species has already spread. This is particularly difficult because of stochastic processes. Here, we develop an approach that requires little a priori information, yet accurately delimits the range of a biological invader. Location We used a simulated landscape, subjected to stochasticity inherent in establishment and spread, to test novel theory for delimiting locally spreading populations. Methods We distinguish three stages to identify the boundary of an invasion, which we term Approach, Decline, Delimit (ADD). Our ADD algorithm uses general characteristics of the invasion pattern, obtained during a search for occupied sites, in combination with sampling and probability theory to delimit the invasion. We compare ADD against four nave delimitation strategies, for long and normal dispersal kernels. Results Our results illustrate the potential difficulty in delimiting invasions. Nave strategies, such as stopping when the invader is absent, typically failed to properly delimit the invasion. In contrast, ADD operated relatively efficiently, and was robust to habitat heterogeneity and knowledge of the true epicentre, but was sensitive to the sparseness of the invasion. For long-distance dispersal kernels, ADD had 80% accurate delimitations when 5% or more of the cells were occupied within the invasion boundary; for normal dispersal kernels, ADD had 95% accurate delimitations when 2.5% or more of the cells were occupied. Main conclusions There is virtually no existing theory for delimiting invasions. ADD is efficient and accurate, even with unknown time of invasion, unknown dispersal kernels, stochastic establishment dynamics and spatial heterogeneity, except for very low invasion densities.
4539983|The success of an exotic species depends notably on its capacity to initiate a new population from a few individuals, to survive genetic bottlenecks and to adapt locally. Species with multiple reproductive strategies (e.g. mixed-mating system with both self- and cross-fertilization) can be efficient colonizers. Herein we focus on Corella eumyota, an exotic ascidian that has rapidly invaded English Channel coasts in recent years. Interestingly, this brooding hermaphroditic ascidian is capable of self-fertilization in the laboratory. We developed 12 microsatellite markers from an enriched library of genomic DNA to investigate the level of inbreeding and selfing in two putatively native populations (South Africa, N = 34, and New Zealand, N = 28) and to examine if founder effects were possibly associated with its recent introduction in two French populations (Perros-Guirec, N = 22 and Brest; N = 25). Genetic polymorphism was very low in both native populations (i.e. less than 60% of the loci were polymorphic) and even lower in the introduced populations, one of which was monomorphic at all loci, suggesting a recent bottleneck. F
40390745|Aim Biological invasion is a major conservation problem that is of interest to ecological science. Understanding mechanisms of invasion is a high priority, heightened by the management imperative of acting quickly after species introduction. While information about invading species' ecology is often unavailable, species distribution data can be collected near the onset of invasion. By examining distribution patterns of exotic and native plant species at multiple spatial scales, we aim to identify the scale (of those studied) that accounts for most variability in exotic species abundance, and infer likely drivers of invasion. Location River Murray wetlands, south-eastern Australia. Methods A nested, crossed survey design was used to determine the extent of variation in wetland plant abundance, grazing intensity and water depth at four spatial scales (reaches, wetland clumps, wetlands, wetland sections), and among three Depth-strata. We examined responses of exotic and native species groups (grouped into terrestrial and amphibious taxa), native weeds and 10 individual species using hierarchical ANOVA. Results As a group dominated by terrestrial taxa, exotic species cover varied at reach-, wetland-and section-scales. This likely reflects differences in abiotic characteristics and propagule pressure at these scales. Groups based on native species did not vary at any scale examined. Cover of 10 species mostly varied among and within wetlands (patterns unrelated to species' origin or functional group), but species' responses differed, despite individual plants being similar in size. While flora mostly varied among wetlands, exotic cover varied most among reaches (26%), which was attributed to hydrological modification and human activities. Main conclusions Multi-scale surveys can rapidly identify factors likely to affect species' distributions and can indicate where future research should be directed. By highlighting disproportionate variation in exotic cover among reaches, this study suggests that flow regulation and human-mediated dispersal facilitate exotic plant invasion in River Murray wetlands.
3246741|Geographical differentiation of populations can be interpreted as a result of adaptive processes in response to environmental gradients and biotic interactions. Such adaptations are particularly interesting in invasive alien species which have been present in an area for a relatively short time. There are few observations of latitudinal trends in alien plants, and no account exists for Impatiens glandulifera, a problematic annual weed in most countries of central and north-western Europe. Here we describe variation in growth and phenology in 26 populations of this species from nine European regions in a common garden in Denmark. Above-ground biomass (an estimate of fecundity), height and basal diameter were lower in the northern populations which were first to produce flowers. Some differences were also observed in biomass allocation to leaves, flowers and fruits, albeit without a latitudinal pattern. The latitudinal trends in growth and survival disappeared in a field experiment, probably due to suboptimal site conditions. Most variation in plant traits was explained by differences among regions with some minor effects of populations within regions. Besides latitude, no other geographical, climatic or population trait correlated with the observed differences in growth and phenology. Differences in latitude may mainly represent variation in length of the growing season. The causes and potential consequences of such latitudinal trends for population dynamics and dispersal of alien plants are discussed.
4539990| Three speciose plant families (Asteraceae, Fabaceae s.l., and Poaceae) are evaluated for their appropriateness as predictors of overall regional patterns of plant diversity in Mexico. These families fulfil criteria for usefulness as indicators advocated by several authors, such as adequate taxonomic knowledge, wide geographical distribution, and occurrence in different plant communities. Known richness was determined from a database including 17,903 species from floristic inventories, review of taxonomic literature, and the study of herbarium specimens. Mexico was divided into 253 cells, each 1 latitude by 1 longitude; for each cell, total plant diversity and number of species in each predictor's family were determined. In addition, each species was categorized by 'preferred' vegetation type (temperate forest, dry tropical forest, humid tropical forest, xerophytic scrubland). Both multiple and simple regression models show that the three families are good predictors of total vascular floristic richness. Fabaceae s.l. has the highest semipartial correlations for all multiple models except with the xerophytic scrubland data set, for which it shares the highest values with Poaceae. Univariate models also predict satisfactorily the vascular floristic richness, especially when Fabaceae s.l. is used as the predictor, and the effect of vegetation type is included. Our results indicate that these three families can be used as potential predictors for total vascular plant species richness in Mexico although Fabaceae s.l. is the best predictor. 
40390732|Aim The European green crab (Carcinus maenas) expanded dramatically after its introduction to the west coast of North America, spreading over 1000 km in < 10 years. We use samples of Carcinus maenas collected over time and space to investigate the genetic patterns underlying the species' initial establishment and spread, and discuss our findings in the context of the species' life history characteristics and demography. Location The central west coast of North America, encompassing California, Oregon, and Washington (USA) and British Columbia (Canada). Methods We collected 1040 total samples from 21 sites representing the major episodes of population establishment and expansion along the west coast of North America. Microsatellite markers were used to assess genetic diversity and structure at different time points in the species' spread, to investigate connectivity between embayments and to estimate both short-term effective population sizes and the number of original founders. Assignment testing was performed to determine the likely source of the introduction. Results Carcinus maenas in western North America likely derived from a single introduction of a small number of founders to San Francisco Bay, CA from the east coast of North America. Throughout its western North American range, the species experiences periodic migration between embayments, resulting in a minor loss of genetic diversity in more recently established populations versus the populations in the area of initial establishment. Main conclusions Low genetic diversity has not precluded the ability of C. maenas to successfully establish and spread on the west coast of North America. An efficient oceanographic transport mechanism combined with highly conducive life history traits are likely the major drivers of C. maenas spread. Evidence for a single introduction underscores the potential utility of early detection and eradication of high-risk invasive species.
4539984| This paper provides a synopsis of the Chilean Asteraceae genera according to the most recent classification. Asteraceae is the richest family within the native Chilean flora, with a total of 121 genera and c. 863 species, currently classified in 18 tribes. The genera are distributed along the whole latitudinal gradient in Chile, with a centre of richness at 33-34 S. Almost one-third of the genera show small to medium-small ranges of distribution, while two-thirds have medium-large to large latitudinal ranges of distribution. Of the 115 mainland genera, 46% have their main distribution in the central Mediterranean zone between 27-37 S. Also of the mainland genera, 53% occupy both coastal and Andean environments, while 33% can be considered as strictly Andean and 20% as strictly coastal genera. The biogeographical analysis of relationships allows the distinction of several floristic elements and generalized tracks: the most marked floristic element is the Neotropical, followed by the anti-tropical and the endemic element. The biogeographical analysis provides important insights into the origin and evolution of the Chilean Asteraceae flora. The presence of many localized and endemic taxa has direct conservation implications. 
4539972|In the development of a species distribution model based on regression techniques such as generalized linear or additive modelling (GLM/GAM), a basic assumption is that records of species presence and absence are real. However, a common concern in many studies examining species distributions is that absences cannot be inferred with certainty. This is particularly the case where the species is rare, difficult to detect and/or does not occupy all available habitat considered suitable. The western ground parrot (Pezoporus wallicus flaviventris) of southern Western Australia, Australia, is a case in point, as not only is it rare and difficult to detect, but it is also unlikely to occupy all available suitable habitat. A recent survey of ground parrots provided the opportunity to develop a predictive distribution model. As the data were susceptible to false absences, these were replaced with randomly selected 'pseudo' absences and modelled using GLM. As a comparison, presence-only information was modelled using a relatively new approach, MAXENT, a machine-learning technique that has been shown to perform comparatively well. The predictive performance of both models, as assessed by the receiver operating characteristic plot (ROC) was high (AUC > 0.8), with MAXENT performing only marginally better than the GLM. These approaches both indicated that the ground parrot prefers areas relatively high in altitude, distant from rivers, gently sloping to level habitat, with an intermediate cover of vegetation and where there is a mosaic of vegetation ages. In this case, the use of presence-only information resulted in the identification of important environmental attributes defining the occurrence of the ground parrot, but additional factors that account for the inability of the bird to occupy all suitable habitat should be a component of model refinement.
3246783|An efficient method for estimating bryophyte diversity in forest stands must consider more than just the dominant forest mesohabitat. We compared two methodologies commonly used for estimating diversity in forest ecosystems. Floristic habitat sampling (FHS) utilizes stratification of all forest mesohabitats, which includes the natural diversity of microhabitats found within and stratifies a mosaic of mesohabitats (e.g. forest, streams, seeps, and cliffs) and microhabitats (e.g. rocks logs, etc.) that are often not considered in forest research projects that use plot sampling to estimate species diversity. In Canadian cedar hemlock forest, FHS methodology recorded more than twice as many bryophyte species as plot sampling (PS). A comparison of the dominant forest mesohabitat concluded that plot sampling was not as efficient as FHS in estimating bryophyte diversity and that plot sampling can result in different interpretations of species diversity. Rare species ordination of stands sampled using FHS showed strong clustering of sites with respect to biogeoclimatic zones and age since the last major disturbance (fire or logging) as compared with rare species ordinations from PS data, which showed no delineation of stands along temporal gradients. Plot sampling has many useful applications in ecology, but floristic habitat sampling is more efficient for quantifying overall bryophyte diversity. FHS provides an excellent way to record a comprehensive list of species.
3246714|Eucalyptus cladocalyx F. Muell., is a tree with a restricted distribution in the Southern Flinders Ranges, South Australia. It was originally introduced into the urban bushland of Kings Park, Perth, Western Australia in 1932 as an ornamental. Since its planting, E. cladocalyx has become invasive, spreading into the bushland up to 70 m away from planting sites. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the E. cladocalyx population is increasing at a greater rate than the two principal native tree species, E. gomphocephala DC. and E. marginata Donn ex Smith, but little is known about the factors influencing its invasion, or its biology. This study describes the population structure of E. cladocalyx, E. gomphocephala and E. marginata in Kings Park and the role of fire in the recruitment process. The study indicated that the three species have characteristics common to temperate Eucalyptus species that mass recruit seedlings following fire, with high numbers of seedlings found in recently burnt areas and low numbers in unburnt areas. Seedling survival in E. cladocalyx was higher than either of the native species. Furthermore, E. cladocalyx adults showed higher rates of canopy recovery following fires. It is argued that although fire in Kings Park is providing opportunities for E. cladocalyx, E. gomphocephala and E. marginata recruitment, the E. cladocalyx population is more resilient in an environment frequently disturbed by fire compared with the native populations.
20532086|Aim: Knowledge of the distribution of a species is fundamental to understanding the species' biology, and changes in known distribution may reflect response to environmental change. However, in many cases, purported range expansions are not adequately justified and extra-limital records may simply reflect previously undocumented populations. Thus, it is critical to distinguish between these hypotheses. This study aimed to provide a simple, conceptual framework for evaluating these hypotheses that depends on the use of museum background data to assess the adequacy of historical sampling. Location: American Southwest and worldwide. Methods: Background data are records of species other than the taxon of interest that are likely to be documented using the same sampling methods. If evaluation of the background group determines that the taxon of interest would have been documented if present, then the extra-limital record can be considered a range expansion. Conversely, if evaluation of the background group indicates that historical sampling was inadequate to have documented the taxon of interest, then the most parsimonious explanation for the extra-limital record is an undocumented population, which should be presented as a range extension. As an example, I applied the methods to a purported range expansion of the yellow-nosed cotton rat (Sigmodon ochrognathus) in the Rincon Mountains in south-eastern Arizona. Results: Evaluation of the background group revealed that sampling was inadequate to have documented S. ochrognathus in the Rincon Mountains if present. Thus, the record of S. ochrognathus in the Rincon Mountains was interpreted as a previously undocumented population rather than a range expansion. Main conclusion: Range expansions can reflect factors that are of important conservation concern, such as climate change or habitat modification. Thus, it is essential that the cause of extra-limital records be accurately interpreted. The method provides a simple means for testing between hypotheses of range extension and range expansion.
40390736|Aim Birds play a major role in the dispersal of seeds of many fleshy-fruited invasive plants. The fruits that birds choose to consume are influenced by fruit traits. However, little is known of how the traits of invasive plant fruits contribute to invasiveness or to their use by frugivores. We aim to gain a greater understanding of these relationships to improve invasive plant management. Location South-east Queensland, Australia. Methods We measure a variety of fruit morphology, pulp nutrient and phenology traits of a suite of bird-dispersed alien plants. Frugivore richness of these aliens was derived from the literature. Using regressions and multivariate methods, we investigate relationships between fruit traits, frugivore richness and invasiveness. Results Plant invasiveness was negatively correlated to fruit size, and all highly invasive species had quite similar fruit morphology [smaller fruits, seeds of intermediate size and few (< 10) seeds per fruit]. Lower pulp water was the only pulp nutrient trait associated with invasiveness. There were strong positive relationships between the diversity of bird frugivores and plant invasiveness, and in the diversity of bird frugivores in the study region and another part of the plants' alien range. Main conclusions Our results suggest that weed risk assessments (WRA) and predictions of invasive success for bird-dispersed plants can be improved. Scoring criteria for WRA regarding fruit size would need to be system-specific, depending on the fruit-processing capabilities of local frugivores. Frugivore richness could be quantified in the plant's natural range, its invasive range elsewhere, or predictions made based on functionally similar fruits.
41242806|Aim Assessments of biodiversity are an essential requirement of conservation management planning. Species distributional modelling is a popular approach to quantifying biodiversity whereby occurrence data are related to environmental covariates. An important confounding factor that is often overlooked in the development of such models is uncertainty due to imperfect detection. Here, I demonstrate how an analytical approach that accounts for the bias due to imperfect detection can be applied retrospectively to an existing biodiversity survey data set to produce more realistic estimates of species distributions and unbiased covariate relationships. Location Pilbara biogeographic region, Australia. Methods As a component of the Pilbara survey, presence/absence (i.e. undetected) data on small ground-dwelling mammals were collected. I applied a multiseason occupancy modelling approach to six of the most common species encountered during this survey. Detection and occupancy rates, as well as extinction and colonization probabilities, were determined, and the influence of covariates on these parameters was examined using the multi-model inference approach. Results Detection probabilities for all six species were considerably lower than 1.0 and varied across time and species. Nave estimates of occupancy underestimated occupancy rates corrected for species detectability by up to 45%. Seasonal variation in occupancy status was attributed to changes in detection for two of the focal species, while reproductive events explained variation in occupancy in three others. Covariates describing the substrate strongly influenced site occupancy for most of the species modelled. A comparison of the occupancy model with a generalized linear model, assuming perfect detection, showed that the effects of the covariates were underestimated in the latter model. Main conclusions The application of the multiseason occupancy modelling approach to the Pilbara mammal data set demonstrated a powerful framework for examining changes in site occupancy, as well as local colonization and extinction rates of species which are not confounded by variable species detection rates.
41242805|Aim Large, charismatic and wide-ranging animals are often employed as focal species for prioritizing landscape linkages in threatened ecosystems (i.e. 'connectivity conservation'), but there have been few efforts to assess empirically whether focal species co-occur with other species of conservation interest within potential linkages. We evaluated whether the African elephant (Loxodonta africana), a world-recognized flagship species, would serve as an appropriate focal species for other large mammals in a potential linkage between two major protected area complexes. Location A 15,400 km area between the Ruaha and Selous ecosystems in central Tanzania, East Africa. Methods We used walking transects to assess habitat, human activity and co-occurrence of elephants and 48 other large mammal species (> 1 kg) at 63 sites using animal sign and direct sightings. We repeated a subset of transects to estimate species detectability using occupancy modelling. We used logistic regression and AIC model selection to characterize patterns of elephant occurrence and assessed correlation of elephant presence with richness of large mammals and subgroups. We considered other possible focal species, compared habitat-based linear regression models of large mammal richness and used circuit theory to examine potential connectivity spatially. Results Elephants were detected in many locations across the potential linkage. Elephant presence was highly positively correlated with the richness of large mammals, as well as ungulates, carnivores, large carnivores and species > 45 kg in body mass ('megafauna'). Outside of protected areas, both mammal richness and elephant presence were negatively correlated with human population density and distance from water. Only one other potential focal species was more strongly correlated with species richness than elephants, but detectability was highest for elephants. Main conclusions Although African elephants have dispersal abilities that exceed most other terrestrial mammals, conserving elephant movement corridors may effectively preserve habitat and potential landscape linkages for other large mammal species among Tanzanian reserves.
2999819|As part of the International Kuril Island Project, we collected data on the distribution patterns of native terrestrial, non-volant mammals inhabiting the Kuril archipelago in the northwest Pacific. The Kurils have a complex physical geography, featuring both landbridge and oceanic islands in which small mammal-occupied islands are near mainlands, whereas larger islands are more isolated. This geography, in combination with the Kurils' cold climate, causes the mammalian fauna to deviate from traditional island biogeographic patterns. We examined these patterns and the mechanisms influencing them using both nestedness analyses and measures of compositional disharmony. We found, as island isolation increases, carnivores constitute an increasing fraction of the mammalian fauna. We suggest that this intriguing pattern of carnivore dominance occurs because species' dispersal abilities increase with increasing body size in the Kurils' cold climate. Substantial energy reserves and cold tolerance of large-bodied carnivores may have been a major factor in determining mammalian colonization patterns, patterns which are perhaps indicative of the complex manners in which challenging climates impact mammalian community assemblages.
3696876|Pennisetum setaceum (Poaceae) is a perennial bunch grass that invaded the United States during the 20th century and is highly invasive in Hawaii, moderately invasive in Arizona, and not yet invasive in southern California. Pennisetum setaceum is apomictic, a condition that is normally associated with low genetic variation within populations, but even moderate levels of genetic variation among populations could account for differences in invasiveness. To determine whether genetic factors are causing the variable invasion success, we used Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat markers (ISSRs) to examine genetic variation in populations from the three areas. Screening of 16 primers revealed no genetic variation within any population or between any geographical areas, a pattern consistent with complete apomixis. Variation in invasion success appears unrelated to genetic differences among populations. Differences in the seasonal timing of rainfall among the regions may be the cause of variable invasiveness of fountain grass. Alternatively, differences in timing of introduction or duration of lag phase may have limited invasiveness in Arizona and southern California.
2673423|Hybridization with closely related taxa poses a significant threat to endangered subspecies (e.g. outbreeding depression, inbreeding) and confounds efforts to manage and conserve these taxa through a loss of taxonomic identity, in part because of the practical necessity of defining subspecies in a typological manner. We examined nine morphological characters in 167 post-juvenile museum specimens to determine if loggerhead shrikes Lanius ludovicianus Linnaeus 1766 on San Clemente Island (off the coast of California) remain diagnosable as L. l. mearnsi Ridgway (1903); an island endemic listed as endangered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Four recent shrike specimens from the island were compared to historical specimens using a bivariate scatter plot and a discriminant function (the latter was used to classify recent specimens post hoc). The few recent specimens were not diagnosable as L. l. mearnsi, but instead appear to be intergrades between L. l. mearnsi and L. l. anthonyi Mearns 1898 (the subspecies endemic to Santa Cruz, Santa Catalina, Santa Rosa and Anacapa islands), and are perhaps closer to pure anthonyi. Our data and the species' natural history and distribution suggest that shrikes currently on San Clemente Island are the result of genetic 'swamping' of mearnsi by anthonyi. Under a necessarily typological definition of a subspecies, it is evident that mearnsi is probably no longer diagnosable. However, we conclude that protection of the entire Channel Islands population of the loggerhead shrike would be the best management strategy, as the species has declined drastically throughout the islands.
3246827|The common waxbill Estrilda astrild was first introduced to Portugal from Africa in 1964, and has spread across much of the country and into Spain. We modelled the expansion of the common waxbill on a 20 x 20 km UTM grid in 4-year periods from 1964 to 1999. The time variation of the square root of the occupied area shows that this expansion process is stabilizing in Portugal, and reasons for this are discussed. Several methods used to model biological expansions are not appropriate for the present case, because little quantitative data are available on the species ecology and because this expansion has been spatially heterogeneous. Instead, colonization on a grid was modelled as a function of several biophysical and spatio-temporal variables through the fitting of a multivariate autologistic equation. This approach allows examination of the underlying factors affecting the colonization process. In the case of the common waxbill it was associated positively with its occurrence in adjacent cells, and affected negatively by altitude and higher levels of solar radiation.
3696858|Plant community diversity, measured as species richness, is typically highest in the early post-fire years in California shrublands. However, this generalization is overly simplistic and the present study demonstrates that diversity is determined by a complex of temporal and spatial effects. Ninety sites distributed across southern California were studied for 5 years after a series of fires. Characteristics of the disturbance event, in this case fire severity, can alter post-fire diversity, both decreasing and increasing diversity, depending on life form. Spatial variability in resource availability is an important factor explaining patterns of diversity, and there is a complex interaction between landscape features and life form. Temporal variability in resource availability affects diversity, and the diversity peak in the immediate post-fire year (or two) appears to be driven by factors different from subsequent diversity peaks. Early post-fire diversity is influenced by life-history specialization, illustrated by species that spend the bulk of their life cycle as a dormant seed bank, which is then triggered to germinate by fire. Resource fluctuations, precipitation in particular, may be associated with subsequent post-fire diversity peaks. These later peaks in diversity comprise a flora that is compositionally different from the immediate post-fire flora, and their presence may be due to mass effects from population expansion of local populations in adjacent burned areas.
40390721|In their reply to Jeschke (2008), Rodriguez-Cabal et al. (2009) argue that the underlying 'data are inadequate to draw strong conclusions about the tens rule or invasibility of islands and continents'. They point out that especially for taxa such as insects or plants, many species introductions are unknown, hence fractions of species that have become established are often overestimated. I agree but would like to add that in Jeschke (2008), I analysed the two well-studied taxa of mammals and birds. Even data from these taxa are imperfect, so they need to be analysed carefully. At least from my perspective, the analyses underlying Jeschke (2008) were done carefully. I thus stand by my original conclusions.
4124771|A prime aim of invasion biology is to predict which species will become invasive, but retrospective analyses have so far failed to develop robust generalizations. This is because many biological, environmental, and anthropogenic factors interact to determine the distribution of invasive species. However, in this paper we also argue that many analyses of invasiveness have been flawed by not considering several fundamental issues: (1) the range size of an invasive species depends on how much time it has had to spread (its residence time); (2) the range size and spread rate are mediated by the total extent of suitable (i.e. potentially invasible) habitat; and (3) the range size and spread rate depend on the frequency and intensity of introductions (propagule pressure), the position of founder populations in relation to the potential range, and the spatial distribution of the potential range. We explored these considerations using a large set of invasive alien plant species in South Africa for which accurate distribution data and other relevant information were available. Species introduced earlier and those with larger potential ranges had larger current range sizes, but we found no significant effect of the spatial distribution of potential ranges on current range sizes, and data on propagule pressure were largely unavailable. However, crucially, we showed that: (1) including residence time and potential range always significantly increases the explanatory power of the models; and (2) residence time and potential range can affect which factors emerge as significant determinants of invasiveness. Therefore, analyses not including potential range and residence time can come to misleading conclusions. When these factors were taken into account, we found that nitrogen-fixing plants and plants invading arid regions have spread faster than other species, but these results were phylogenetically constrained. We also show that, when analysed in the context of residence time and potential range, variation in range size among invasive species is implicitly due to variation in spread rates, and, that by explicitly assuming a particular model of spread, it is possible to estimate changes in the rates of plant invasions through time. We believe that invasion biology can develop generalizations that are useful for management, but only in the context of a suitable null model.
3877719|Modelling of climate change-induced species range shifts has generally addressed migration limitations inadequately, often assuming 'null' migration or instantaneous 'full' migration extremes. We describe methods for incorporating simple migration rate assumptions into multispecies modelling, using the Proteaceae of the Cape Floristic Region. Even with optimistic migration assumptions, range loss projections more closely approximate null migration than full migration assumptions. Full migration results were positively skewed by few species with large range increases, an overestimate eliminated by dispersal-limited migration rate assumptions. Windand ant/rodent-dispersed species responded differently to climate change. Initially larger ranges of wind-dispersed species were more strongly reduced by climate change, despite far greater assumed dispersal distances - we suggest that these well-dispersed species populate more marginal areas of potential range, causing lower resilience to climatic changes at range margins. Overall, range loss rate slowed with advancing climate change, possibly because species ranges contracted into core areas most resilient to climate change. Thus, a consideration of simple dynamics of range change (rather than single step, present-future comparisons of range) provide new insights relevant for conservation strategies, in particular, and for guiding monitoring efforts to detect and gauge the impacts of climate change on natural populations.
4539994|During the last century, unprecedented landscape fragmentation has severely affected many plant species occurring in once widespread semi-natural grasslands in Europe. Fragmentation reduces population size and increases isolation, which can jeopardize the persistence of populations. Recent large-scale ecological and genetic studies across several European countries indicate that fragmented populations of common plant species exhibit a strong genetic differentiation and local adaptation to their home sites, reducing their capacity to establish new populations elsewhere. We discuss the main genetic processes that determine the performance of plant populations in severely fragmented landscapes: namely inbreeding depression, genetic differentiation and genetic introgression. We stress the need for large-scale genetic studies to detect the geographical structure of genetic variation of fragmented plant populations, since nuclei of genetically independent groups of populations may become important targets of conservation. A thorough knowledge on the large-scale geographical structure of genetic variation for a sufficiently wide array of plant species can provide the basis to develop comprehensive conservation plans to preserve the ecological and evolutionary processes that generate and maintain biodiversity of fragmented semi-natural grasslands.
40390764|Aim Coccinellid beetles are important predators that contribute to pest suppression in agricultural landscapes. Since the introduction of the exotic coccinellids Coccinella septempunctata L. and Harmonia axyridis Pallas into the USA, several studies have reported a decline of native Coccinellidae in agroecosystems. We aimed to investigate the influence of landscape composition on native and exotic coccinellid abundance within soybean fields. Location Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin. Methods As part of a 2-year study (2005-06) on the biological control of the soybean aphid, Aphis glycines Matsumura, we examined coccinellid communities in 33 soybean fields using yellow sticky card traps. Landscape heterogeneity and composition were measured at multiple spatial scales ranging 1-3.5 km from focal soybean fields where coccinellid sampling took place. Results Exotic species made up 90% of the total coccinellid community in Michigan soybean fields followed by Wisconsin (84%), Minnesota (66%) and Iowa (57%). Harmonia axyridis was the dominant exotic coccinellid in all states comprising 45-62% of the total coccinellid community, followed by C. septempunctata (13-30%). Two additional exotic species, Hippodamia variegata (Goeze) and Propylea quatuordecimpunctata (L.) were also found in the region. Overall, the most abundant native coccinellid was Hippodamia convergens Guerin-Meneville; however, its abundance varied across the region, comprising 0% (Michigan) to 28% (Iowa) of the total coccinellid community. Landscape structure significantly influenced the composition of coccinellid communities in soybean agroecosystems. We found that native coccinellids were most abundant in low-diversity landscapes with an abundance of grassland habitat while exotic coccinellids were associated with the abundance of forested habitats. Main conclusion We propose that grassland dominated landscapes with low structural diversity and low amounts of forested habitat may be resistant to exotic coccinellid build-up, particularly H. axyridis and therefore represent landscapescale refuges for native coccinellid biodiversity.
4539976|Setting aside biodiversity hotspots would be especially compelling if they contained not just enormous numbers of species but also excessive evolutionary history. A recent study seemed to provide evidence for this incentive for hotspot conservation. Sechrest et al. (2002) reported that hotspots contain more endemic phylogenetic diversity (PD) than expected based on the numbers of primate and carnivore species they contain. We extend their analysis and revise some of their claims. For primates and threatened carnivores, we show that the original analysis was driven by a single hotspot (Madagascar) that contains an ancient endemic clade. The remaining hotspots harbour less rather than significantly more endemic PD than expected. Thus, while one hotspot contains an enormous excess of evolutionary history, the remaining hotspots do not. Our analysis reveals that the overriding influence of a single hotspot can create the misleading impression that hotspots generally contain excessive evolutionary history. Justification for the hotspot initiative should be based on robust evidence. We join others in endorsing an increased role for detailed phylogenetic analysis in conservation planning.
4539989| Use of -diversity indices in the study of spatial distribution of species diversity is hampered by the difficulty of applying significance tests. To overcome this problem we used a simulation approach in a study of species turnover of ferns, aroids, bromeliads, and melastomes along an elevational gradient from 1700 m to 3400 m in a species-rich tropical cloud forest of Bolivia. Three parameters of species turnover (number of upper/lower elevational species limits per elevational step, Wilson-Shmida similarity index between adjacent steps) were analysed. Significant species turnover limits were detected at 2000 ( 50) m and 3050 m, which roughly coincided with the elevational limits of the main vegetation types recognized in the study area. The taxon specificity of elevational distributions implies that no single plant group can be used as a reliable surrogate for overall plant diversity and that the response to future climate change will be taxon-specific, potentially leading to the formation of plant communities lacking modern analogues. Mean elevational range size of plant species was 490 m ( 369). Elevational range sizes of terrestrial species were shorter than those of epiphytes. We conclude that our simulation approach provides an alternative approach for assessing the statistical significance of levels of species turnover along ecological gradient without the limitations imposed by traditional statistical approaches. 
41242840|Aim Many Australian Acacia species have been planted around the world, some are highly valued, some are invasive, and some are both highly valued and invasive. We review global efforts to minimize the risk and limit the impact of invasions in this widely used plant group. Location Global. Methods Using information from literature sources, knowledge and experience of the authors, and the responses from a questionnaire sent to experts around the world, we reviewed: (1) a generalized life cycle of Australian acacias and how to control each life stage, (2) different management approaches and (3) what is required to help limit or prevent invasions. Results Relatively few Australian acacias have been introduced in large numbers, but all species with a long and extensive history of planting have become invasive somewhere. Australian acacias, as a group, have a high risk of becoming invasive and causing significant impacts as determined by existing assessment schemes. Moreover, in most situations, long-lived seed banks mean it is very difficult to control established infestations. Control has focused almost exclusively on widespread invaders, and eradication has rarely been attempted. Classical biological control is being used in South Africa with increasing success. Main conclusions A greater emphasis on pro-active rather than reactive management is required given the difficulties managing established invasions of Australian acacias. Adverse effects of proposed new introductions can be minimized by conducting detailed risk assessments in advance, planning for on-going monitoring and management, and ensuring resources are in place for long-term mitigation. Benign alternatives (e.g. sterile hybrids) could be developed to replace existing utilized taxa. Eradication should be set as a management goal more often to reduce the invasion debt. Introducing classical biological control agents that have a successful track-record in South Africa to other regions and identifying new agents (notably vegetative feeders) can help mitigate existing widespread invasions. Trans-boundary sharing of information will assist efforts to limit future invasions, in particular, management strategies need to be better evaluated, monitored, published and publicised so that global best-practice procedures can be developed.
40390730|Aim Understanding the history of the mesic-adapted plant species of eastern British Columbia and northern Idaho, disjunct from their main coastal distribution, may suggest how biotas reorganize in the face of climate change and dispersal barriers. For different species, current evidence supports establishment of the disjunction via an inland glacial refugium, via recent dispersal from the coast, or via a combination of both. In this study, the modern distributions of the coastal-disjunct vascular plants are analysed with respect to modern climate to examine how refugia and/or dispersal limitation control regional patterns in species richness. Location North-west North America. Methods The distributions of nine tree and 58 understorey species with a coastal-disjunct pattern were compiled on a 50-km grid. The relationship between species richness and an estimate of available moisture was calculated separately for formerly glaciated and unglaciated portions of the coastal and inland regions. Growth habit and dispersal mode were assessed as possible explanatory variables for species distributions. Results Species richness shows a strong relationship to climate in coastal-unglaciated areas but no relationship to climate in inland-glaciated areas. In inland-glaciated areas, richness is c. 70% lower than that expected from climate. Species with animal-dispersed seeds occupy a larger portion of coastal and inland regions than species with less dispersal potential. Main conclusions Modern patterns of diversity are consistent with both refugia and dispersal processes in establishing the coastal-disjunct pattern. The inland glacial refugium is marked by locally high diversity and several co-distributed endemics. In the inland-glaciated area, dispersal limitation has constrained diversity despite the nearby refugia. Onset of mesic climate within only the last 3000 years and the low dispersal capacity of many species in the refugium may explain this pattern. This study suggests that vascular plant species will face significant challenges responding to climate change on fragmented landscapes.
40390715|Aim The exotic annual cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) is fast replacing sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) communities throughout the Great Basin Desert and nearby regions in the Western United States, impacting native plant communities and altering fire regimes, which contributes to the long-term persistence of this weedy species. The effect of this conversion on native faunai communities remains largely unexamined. We assess the impact of conversion from native perennial to exotic annual plant communities on desert rodent communities. Location Wyoming big sagebrush shrublands and nearby sites previously converted to cheatgrass-dominated annual grasslands in the Great Basin Desert, Utah, USA. Methods At two sites in Tooele County, Utah, USA, we investigated with Sherman live trapping whether intact sagebrush vegetation and nearby converted Bromus tectorwm-dominated vegetation differed in rodent abundance, diversity and community composition. Results Rodent abundance and species richness were considerably greater in sagebrush plots than in cheatgrass-dominated plots. Nine species were captured in sagebrush plots; five of these were also trapped in cheatgrass plots, all at lower abundances than in the sagebrush. In contrast, cheatgrass-dominated plots had no species that were not found in sagebrush. In addition, the site that had been converted to cheatgrass longer had lower abundances of rodents than the site more recently converted to cheatgrass-dominated plots. Despite large differences in abundances and species richness, Simpson's D diversity and Shannon-Wiener diversity and Brillouin evenness indices did not differ between sagebrush and cheatgrass-dominated plots. Main conclusions This survey of rodent communities in native sagebrush and in converted cheatgrass-dominated vegetation suggests that the abundances and community composition of rodents may be shifting, potentially at the larger spatial scale of the entire Great Basin, where cheatgrass continues to invade and dominate more landscape at a rapid rate.
40390767|Aim Many studies have forecasted the possible impact of climate change on plant distributions using models based on ecological niche theory, but most of them have ignored dispersal-limitations, assuming dispersal to be either unlimited or null. Depending on the rate of climatic change, the landscape fragmentation and the dispersal capabilities of individual species, these assumptions are likely to prove inaccurate, leading to under-or overestimation of future species distributions and yielding large uncertainty between these two extremes. As a result, the concepts of 'potentially suitable' and 'potentially colonizable' habitat are expected to differ significantly. To quantify to what extent these two concepts can differ, we developed MIGCLIM, a model simulating plant dispersal under climate change and landscape fragmentation scenarios. MIGCLIM implements various parameters, such as dispersal distance, increase in reproductive potential over time, landscape fragmentation or long-distance dispersal. Location Western Swiss Alps. Methods Using our MIGCLIM model, several simulations were run for two virtual species by varying dispersal distance and other parameters. Each simulation covered the 100-year period 2001-2100 and three different IPCCbased temperature warming scenarios were considered. Results of dispersallimited projections were compared with unlimited and no-dispersal projections. Results Our simulations indicate that: (1) using realistic parameter values, the future potential distributions generated using MIGCLIM can differ significantly (up to more than 95% difference in colonized surface) from those that ignore dispersal; (2) this divergence increases under more extreme climate warming scenarios and over longer time periods; and (3) the uncertainty associated with the warming scenario can be as large as the one related to dispersal parameters. Main conclusions Accounting for dispersal, even roughly, can importantly reduce uncertainty in projections of species distribution under climate change scenarios.
20532079|Aim: Reconstructing the introduction history of exotic species is critical to understanding ecological and evolutionary processes that underlie invasive spread and to designing strategies that prevent or manage invasions. The aims of this study were to infer the introduction history of the invasive apomictic bunchgrass Cortaderia jubata and to determine if molecular data support the postulated horticultural origin of invasive populations. Location: Invaded areas in the USA (California, Maui) and New Zealand; native areas in Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru. Methods: We used nuclear microsatellite markers to genotype 281 plants from invaded areas in California, Maui and New Zealand, and 77 herbarium specimens from native South America, and compared the genotypic and clonal variation of C. jubata from the invaded and native ranges. Clonal diversity was determined from genotypic diversity using two analytical methods. Results: Invasive C. jubata from invaded regions in California, Maui and New Zealand consisted of the same single clone that probably originated from a single introduced genotype. In contrast, 14 clones were detected in herbarium specimens from the native areas of Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru. The invasive clone matched the most common clone identified in herbarium specimens from southern Ecuador where horticultural stock is presumed to have originated. Main conclusions: The lack of clonal and genotypic diversity in invasive plants, but moderately high diversity detected in native plants, indicates a significant reduction in genetic variation associated with the introduction of C. jubata outside of its native range. Based on historical accounts of the horticultural introduction of C. jubata and the results of this study, a severe founder effect probably occurred during deliberate introduction of C. jubata into cultivation. Our results are consistent with the postulated horticultural origin of invasive C. jubata and point to southern Ecuador as the geographical source of invasive populations.
3696905|Understanding the ecological differences between native and invasive species is of considerable scientific and practical interest. We examined such differences between native and invasive inland fish species from the Iberian Peninsula in order to analyse the importance of phylogenetic correction and variability (in addition to central tendency). We collected 26 quantitative and qualitative variables on the ecology, life-history traits and human use of the 69 inland fish species of the Iberian Peninsula, including native, invasive and migratory species. The taxonomic distribution of invasive fish species deviated significantly from world freshwater richness and in contrast to native species, invasive fish belongs to only five taxonomic orders but to a wide spectrum of families not native to the Iberian Peninsula. Because the life-history traits were highly dependent on taxonomy, the results, with or without applying phylogenetic methods, differed and after accounting for phylogeny, invasive species displayed higher and wider latitude in general and a different reproductive season mainly among salmonids and cyprinids. Human use was also significantly different between native and invasive fish species and produced more variability in life-history traits of invasive species and uneven taxonomic distribution because of the high diversity of species introduced. We show that accounting for taxonomy and studying variability in addition to central tendency is important in the comparison of life-history traits between native and invasive species.
41242794|Aim We evaluated Odonata distribution data and predicted the compositional resemblance based on niche-based species distribution models to analyse the following questions: (1) How is estimated species richness distributed, and how can it be preserved under the actual network of conservation units (a gap analysis approach)? (2) How is the estimated odonate beta diversity distributed, and is there a better distribution of conservation units (a priority setting approach)? (3) Is the probability of being under protection a function of the potential species range size? and (4) Will the current conservation network proposals protect odonate taxa? Location Central Brazil in a core Cerrado area. Methods We generated odonate species distribution predictions based on MaxEnt and maps derived from estimated species richness, beta diversity and gap analysis for all species predicted to occur in the study area. Then, we compared these maps with current conservation units, land-use patterns and proposals for the establishment of conservation units. Results Raw odonate species records provided limited utility for setting conservation priorities without the use of niche-based models. However, area under the receiver operating curve (AUC) values were characterized by substantial variation that was related to the number of records. No current conservation units overlapped the areas with higher predicted richness and beta diversity, and in general, conservation units were not preserving restricted/rare species. There was a direct linear correlation between species range size and the proportion of its range protected in the current network of conservation units. Finally, we identified three areas with high odonate beta diversity where conservationist actions should be implemented. Main conclusions Current conservation units and future suggested areas do not overlap regions with high conservation values for odonates. Conservation units protect species at random, and the level of protection has a direct relationship with species range size; thus, wide-range species are expected to be more protected than restricted or threatened species.
3877711|Conservation and land management decisions may be misguided by inaccurate or misinterpreted knowledge of biodiversity. Non-systematists often lack taxonomic expertise necessary for an accurate assessment of biodiversity. Additionally, there are far too few taxonomists to contribute significantly to the task of identifying species for specimens collected in biodiversity studies. While species level identification is desirable for making informed management decisions concerning biodiversity, little progress has been made to reduce this taxonomic deficiency. Involvement of non-systematists in the identification process could hasten species identification. Incorporation of DNA sequence data has been recognized as one way to enhance biodiversity assessment and species identification. DNA data are now technologically and economically feasible for most scientists to apply in biodiversity studies. However, its use is not widespread and means of its application has not been extensively addressed. This paper illustrates how such data can be used to hasten biodiversity assessment of species using a little-known group of edaphic beetles. Partial mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I was sequenced for 171 individuals of feather-wing beetles (Coleoptera: Ptiliidae) from the Klamath ecoregion, which is part of a biodiversity hotspot, the California Floristic Province. A phylogram of these data was reconstructed via parsimony and the strict consensus of 28,000 equally parsimonious trees was well resolved except for peripheral nodes. Forty-two voucher specimens were selected for further identification from clades that were associated with many synonymous and non-synonymous nucleotide changes. A ptiliid taxonomic expert identified nine species that corresponded to monophyletic groups. These results allowed for a more accurate assessment of ptiliid species diversity in the Klamath ecoregion. In addition, we found that the number of amino acid changes or percentage nucleotide difference did not associate with species limits. This study demonstrates that the complementary use of taxonomic expertise and molecular data can improve both the speed and the accuracy of species-level biodiversity assessment. We believe this represents a means for non-systematists to collaborate directly with taxonomists in species identification and represents an improvement over methods that rely solely on parataxonomy or sequence data.
40390726|Aim Land use and climate are two major components of global environmental change but our understanding of their simultaneous and interactive effects upon biodiversity is still limited. Here, we investigated the relationship between the species richness of neophytes, i.e. non-native vascular plants introduced after 1500 AD, and environmental covariates to draw implications for future dynamics under land-use and climate change. Location Switzerland, Central Europe. Methods The distribution of vascular plants was derived from a systematic national grid of 1 km quadrates (n = 456; Swiss Biodiversity Monitoring programme) including 1761 species, 122 of which were neophytes. Generalized linear models (GLMs) were used to correlate neophyte species richness with environmental covariates. The impact of land-use and climate change was thereafter evaluated by projections for the years 2020 and 2050 using scenarios of moderate and strong changes for climate warming (IPCC) and urban sprawl (NRP 54). Results Mean annual temperature and the amount of urban areas explained neophyte species richness best, with a high predictive power of the corresponding model (cross-validated D = 0.816). Climate warming had a stronger impact on the potential increase in the mean neophyte species richness (up to 191% increase by 2050) than ongoing urban sprawl (up to 10% increase) independently from variable interactions and model extrapolations to non-analogue environments. Main conclusions In contrast to other vascular plants, the prediction of neophyte species richness at the landscape scale in Switzerland requires few variables only, and regions of highest species richness of the two groups do not coincide. The neophyte species richness is basically driven by climatic (temperature) conditions, and urban areas additionally modulate small-scale differences upon this coarsescale pattern. According to the projections climate warming will contribute to the future increase in neophyte species richness much more than ongoing urbanization, but the gain in new neophyte species will be highest in urban regions.
20171999|Dispersal ability is a factor of prime importance to explain biotic distributions. Yet, it is extremely difficult to measure directly. In this study, we take advantage of the natural experimental design of slag heap colonization in Belgium to document the timing and range of dispersal of bryophytes at the landscape scale. On the basis of a species atlas with a 4  4 km grid, the minimum distance separating species found on 52 slag heaps from potential source populations was determined. Minimum dispersal rates were inferred by coupling the information on minimum distance between slag heap and source populations with time since colonization. The number of species per slag heap is significantly correlated with time since colonization and area size. The frequency distribution of the longest dispersal events is highly skewed, with 44% of the species recruited within the nearest 6 km. In the remaining 56% of the species, recruitments from source populations located within a range of at least 6-86 km occurred within a period of less than 50 years. The majority of the species that are not recruited within the nearest vicinity of the slag heaps, including rare species at the regional scale, occur on slag heaps that have been colonized for 25-50 years. Most recently colonized slag heaps are indeed characterized by 'fugitive', weedy species, whereas slag heaps that have been colonized for &gt; 50 years tend to accumulate perennial species with a 'stayer' life strategy. These observations suggest that rare species may display the dispersal ability to travel across the landscape, but are subsequently limited by their ability to establish a viable community because of more competitive neighbours. Rare species therefore tend to accumulate at intermediate colonization stages, which represent a trade-off between an increasing probability of colonization with time and a decreasing probability of establishment due to competition.
41058140|Aim The tunicate Molgula manhattensis has a disjunct amphi-Atlantic distribution and a recent history of world-wide introductions. Its distribution could be the result of regional extinctions followed by post-glacial recolonization, or anthropogenic dispersal. To determine whether the North Atlantic distribution of M. manhattensis is natural or human-mediated, we analysed mtDNA cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) sequence variation in individuals from cryptogenic and introduced ranges. Location North Atlantic Europe and America; Black Sea; San Francisco Bay; Osaka Bay. Methods Nuclear 18S rDNA sequences were used to resolve phylogenetic relationships and mtDNA COI sequences for phylogeographic analyses. Results Phylogenetic analyses confirmed that M. manhattensis and M. socialis, which are frequently confused, are distinct species. MtDNA haplotype diversity was nearly three times higher with deeper relationships among haplotypes on the North-east American coast than in Europe. Diversity declined from south to north in America but not in Europe. In areas of known introductions (Black Sea, Japan, San Francisco Bay), M. manhattensis showed variable levels of haplotype diversity. Medium-to-high-frequency haplotypes originating from the North-west Atlantic were present in two locations of known introductions, but not in Europe. Private haplotypes were found on both sides of the Atlantic and in introduced populations. The mismatch distribution for the North-east Atlantic coast indicates a recent expansion. Main conclusions Molgula manhattensis is native in North-east America. However, whether it was introduced or is native to Europe remains equivocal. Additional sampling might or might not reveal the presence of putative private European haplotypes in America. The low European diversity may be explained by low effective population size and a recent expansion, or by low propagule pressure of anthropogenic introduction. Absence of medium-to-high-frequency American haplotypes in Europe may be the result of exclusive transport from southern ports, or long-term residence. These arguments are ambiguous, and M. manhattensis remains cryptogenic in Europe.
3877732|Explaining the heterogeneous distribution of biodiversity across the Earth has long been a challenge to ecologists and biogeographers. Here, we document the patterns of plant species richness for different taxonomic groups in China's nature reserves, and discuss their possible explanations at national and regional scales, using vascular plant richness data coupled with information on climate and topographical variables. We found that water deficit, energy and elevation range (a surrogate of habitat heterogeneity) represent the primary explanations for variation in plant species richness of the nature reserves across China. There are consistent relationships between species richness and climate and habitat heterogeneity for different taxonomic vascular plant groups at the national scale. Habitat heterogeneity is strongly associated with plant richness in all regions, whereas climatic constraints to plant diversity vary regionally. In the regions where energy is abundant or water is scarce, plant richness patterns were determined by water and habitat heterogeneity, whereas in the region with low energy inputs, water interacting with energy, and habitat heterogeneity determined its species richness pattern. Our results also suggest that energy variables alone do not represent the primary predictor of plant richness.
20532071|Aim: We tested the hypothesis that construction of lakes and ponds has facilitated both inter- and intracontinental invasions of calanoid copepod species. Location: North Island, New Zealand. Methods: We sampled both natural and constructed lakes, ponds and reservoirs for calanoid copepods in the North Island, New Zealand. Species records were supplemented by examining historically collected samples and literature review. Distributions of non-indigenous calanoid copepod species were compared between constructed and natural waters. Species distributions of native species were compared with the basement terranes (microplates) of the North Island to determine if they possess 'natural ranges', and to assess whether construction of new water bodies had altered these distributions. Results: Ten calanoid copepod species have been recorded. At least four, and possibly five, of these species are non-indigenous and were restricted to constructed water bodies. Occurrences in constructed water bodies were not restricted to dammed valleys, but also included ponds constructed on farms, ornamental ponds, disused quarries and retired mines. Four Boeckella species had distributions in natural waters closely related to the North Island basement terranes, and therefore possess 'natural ranges' on the island. One species, Boeckella propinqua, was found in natural lakes over a small geographical range only, but has spread with construction of new water bodies to now be widely distributed over the island. Main conclusions: Construction of lakes and ponds has facilitated the invasion of calanoid copepod species at both inter- and intracontinental scales. Our findings suggest that resident native calanoid copepod species may reduce the risk of invasion to natural water bodies, as similar-sized species are commonly unable to co-occur. Spread of the non-indigenous representatives from constructed into natural waters is inevitable, with established populations providing local propagule supplies for regular introductions.
3877744|Recent null models that place species ranges randomly within a bounded domain have produced controversial results. Many such geometric constraint models predict a peak in species richness in the centre of domains in the absence of underlying environmental gradients or interspecific interactions. We used two-dimensional simulation models to explore different ways that species ranges could interact with the domain boundary. In the rejection model, a randomly generated range that overlaps a domain boundary is removed from the simulation. In the reshaping model, a range that overlaps the domain boundary is reshaped so that the entire range is placed within the domain. The truncation model allows potential ranges to extend across the boundary, but only that portion of the range within the domain is included in the realized range. Both rejection and reshaping models produced a drop in species richness near domain boundaries, though the effect was less pronounced in the reshaping model. Our truncation model did not produce any spatial pattern in species richness. Thus the random placement of species ranges within a bounded domain does not necessarily lead to a mid-domain effect. Range truncation is consistent with bioclimate envelope models, which can successfully predict a species range in response to the availability of appropriate climate conditions. We argue that such flexible range sizes are more realistic than the assumption that range size is an unvarying characteristic of a species. Other range characteristics, including size and shape, can change near domain boundaries in the null models, including the truncation model. A broader consideration of range characteristics near domain boundaries could be productive.
40390746|Aim Pathways linking grazing and detrital subsystems of terrestrial ecosystems are important for ecosystem processes and function, but remain poorly understood. The invasion of a generalist predator creates a unique opportunity to study the effects of prdation across these subsystems. We examine here, the effects of a non-native generalist predator, the little red fire ant (Wasmannia auropunctata, Roger) on both grazing and detrital invertebrate communities and ecosystem processes in* a rain forest understorey. Location Gamba Protected Area Complex, south-western Gabon, Africa. Methods We measured abundances and diversities of understorey grazing and detrital invertebrate communities, soil nutrients, herbivory, litter fragmentation rates and leaf chemistry of a dominant understorey shrub inside and outside of 19 separate invasion fronts. We then explored possible trophic cascades and pathways of interaction using path analysis. Results Results suggest that invasive ants may alter herbivory regimes, grazing and detrital communities, and may indirectly alter litter decomposition and nutrient cycling in the soil by suppressing important microbivore and detritivore populations with consequences for leaf chemistry. Main conclusions These results demonstrate that generalist predators may be major drivers of both grazing and detrital subsystems by inducing strong shifts in adjacent communities that ultimately affect ecosystem processes.
4539949|It is now generally recognized that human-mediated biological invasion is a multistage process, successively comprising transport, introduction, establishment, and spread, and that a complete understanding of the causes of invasion requires studies of all stages. However, while many studies address the characteristics that influence establishment, relatively few address the characteristics that influence whether or not a species transits the earlier stages of transport and introduction. Here, we use data on the rich exotic avifauna of Florida to assess non-randomness in the identities of species that have passed through the transport and introduction stages. Bird species transported and introduced to Florida are non-random with respect to their taxonomic affiliations, body mass, native geographical range size, and region of origin: introductions are more likely for widespread, large-bodied species from the Neotropics and belonging to the Anatidae, Psittacidae, Ciconiidae, and Passeridae. Data on the identities of species that have attempted to breed but failed, and on the breeding population size for most established species, also allowed us to assess the extent to which the same variables influenced various aspects of post-introduction establishment. Only native geographical range size and latitudinal range mid-point distinguish between these different classes of exotic species. Geographical range size is the most general correlate of different classes of invaders in our analyses.
3246686|Studies of species richness have been hampered by the use of methods that fail to account for phylogenetic non-independence of character states. MacroCAIC is a computer program that extends the method of phylogenetically independent contrasts to encompass species-richness data. It examines user-selected characters for correlation with species richness, thus allowing clearer identification of the factors driving large-scale patterns of diversity.
40390738|Aim Rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss, Walbaum 1792) is an exotic salmonid invading eastern Canada. First introduced for recreational fishing in Ontario, Quebec and the Maritime provinces, the species is now spreading in salmon rivers located in Eastern Quebec, where its stocking is strictly forbidden. Newly established populations have been found along the St Lawrence Estuary. To effectively mitigate the potential threat the invasion poses to native salmonids, we aimed to document the invasion's origin and progress in the St Lawrence River and estuary. We first determined genetic origins among several potential wild and cultured source populations, found at the upstream and downstream extremities of the St Lawrence system. Thereafter, we studied the range expansion, predicting that the invasion process conforms to a one-dimensional stepping-stone dispersion model. Location Recently invaded salmon rivers that flow into the Estuary and Gulf of St Lawrence in Quebec, and watercourses supporting naturalized populations (Lake Ontario, Lake Memphremagog and Prince-Edward-Island rivers). Methods Rainbow trout from 10 potential source populations (wild and domestic strains) and 243 specimens captured in salmon rivers were genotyped at 10 microsatellite loci. Genetic origins of specimens and relationship between colonies were assessed using assignment analyses based on individuals and clusters. Results Invasion of rainbow trout in Eastern Quebec is directed downstream, driven by migrants from upstream naturalized populations, found in the Ganaraska River (Lake Ontario), and, to a lesser extent, in Lake Memphremagog. Populations from the Maritime provinces and domestic strains do not contribute to the colonisation process. A recently established population in Charlevoix (Eastern Quebec) supplies other downstream colonies. Main conclusions Rainbow trout is spreading from Lake Ontario downstream to Eastern Quebec using the St Lawrence River system as an invasion corridor. Range expansion in a downstream direction is driven by a more complex stepping-stone dispersion model than predicted. Management options to protect native salmonids include reducing the effective size of the Charlevoix population, impeding reproduction in recently colonized rivers, halting the upstream migration of anadromous spawners, and curtailing stocking events inside the stocking area.
3246752|Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the success of invasive species in new environments. A species may become invasive when a new site provides the potential for positive rates of population growth. This may be the case of several Agave species introduced to Spain in the 1940s. In this paper we document factors that promote large increases of populations of these species, and their effects on native plant communities in two sites of SE Spain. Results showed higher rhizome and bulbil production, and higher establishment rates by agaves in sandy soils than in clay soils. In their native habitats, agaves have low establishment rates and sandy soils are rare. This suggests that sandy soils are an opportunity which releases the clonal reproduction of Agave. The effects of agaves on the physiological performance and reproduction of native species were negative, positive or neutral, depending on the size and rooting depth of neighbours. Assemblages of native species growing within Agave stands had lower diversity than non-invaded sites. Our data show that Agave stands have positive growth rates in SE Spain, and suggest that sandy soils are a niche dimension enhancing the invasion in these new habitats.
4539942|The ecological damage caused by invasive vines poses a considerable threat to many natural ecosystems. However, very little data are available for this potentially environmentally destructive functional group in Australia. In order to address this paucity of information, we assembled the first inventory of exotic vines that have become established in natural ecosystems across Australia. The influence that introduction history attributes, variables that relate to the introduction of a species to a new area, may have on the occurrence and distribution of exotic vines was also determined. We asked whether the continent of origin, reason for introduction, and residence time related to the prevalence and distribution of exotic vines across Australia. A total of 179 exotic climbing plant species from 40 different families were found to have become established across continental Australia. However, five families accounted for over 50% of these species. Most exotic vines originated from South America, and were introduced for ornamental purposes. The length of time in which an exotic vine had been present in its new range was significantly related to its distribution, with a positive relationship found between residence time and area of occupancy across the continent. No other introduction history attribute was significantly related to the area of occupancy, or distribution, of a species. This suggests that while the trends found among introduction history attributes are important in explaining the prevalence of exotic vines in Australia, only residence time is currently a useful predictor of their future success.
3696922|The nature of spatial autocorrelation of biota may reveal much about underlying ecological and biological factors responsible for producing those patterns, especially dispersal processes (drift, adult flight, etc.). We report here on assemblage-level autocorrelation in the benthic-invertebrate assemblages (retained in sieves of 300 m mesh) of riffles in two adjacent, relatively pristine rivers in southeastern Victoria, Australia (40-km reaches of the Wellington and Wonnangatta Rivers). These are related to patterns of autocorrelation in physical and catchment conditions ('environmental variables') in the vicinity of the sampling points. Both the invertebrate assemblages and environmental variables were autocorrelated at small scales (= 8 km) in the Wellington River in one of the sampling years (1996). Dissimilarities of invertebrate assemblages were correlated with dissimilarities of environmental variables in both sampling years (1996 and 1997) in that river. Environmental variables were autocorrelated in the Wonnangatta River, but this was not expressed as autocorrelation in the assemblages of invertebrates, which were not autocorrelated at any scale studied. Individual environmental variables showed different spatial patterns between the two rivers. These results suggest that individual rivers have their own idiosyncratic patterns and one cannot assume that even similar, geographically adjacent rivers will have the same patterns, which is a difficulty for ecological assessment and restoration.
20171949|We demonstrate that within-year climatic variability, particularly rainfall seasonality, is the most significant variable explaining spatial patterns of bird abundance in Australian tropical rainforest. The likely mechanism causing this pattern is a resource bottleneck (insects, nectar, and fruit) during the dry season that limits the population size of many species. The patterns support both the diversity-climatic-stability hypothesis and the species--energy hypothesis but clearly show that seasonality in energy availability may be a more significant factor than annual totals or means. An index of dry season severity is proposed that quantifies the combined effect of the degree of dryness and the duration of the dry season. We suggest that the predicted increases in seasonality due to global climate change could produce significant declines in bird abundance, further exacerbating the impacts of decreased range size, increased fragmentation, and decreased population size likely to occur as a result of increasing temperature. We suggest that increasing climatic seasonality due to global climate change has the potential to have significant negative impacts on tropical biodiversity.
3246726|Complementary abundance gradients of substituting congeneric arachnids along the northern margin of the Alps are described, and the possible historical and contemporary factors that have produced these distributions are explored. The intensities of activity of epigeous arachnids were determined in pitfall traps along seven altitudinal transects approximately 35 km apart in the Bavarian Alps (Germany) and in the county of Salzburg (Austria). No supraregional gradient of physical factors exists within the region investigated. Six pairs of congeners show vicariances or alternating abundance gradients. For each species pair, the abundance gradient is represented in diagrams and compared with a graphic model of substitution types. Three patterns are evident: strict vicariances, abrupt replacement in a narrow belt, and gradual substitution over a wide zone of sympatric occurrence. The different extent of range overlap suggests distinctive classes and intensities of interspecific interactions. With regard to biogeographic histories, one prevailing pattern emerged: endemic species of the eastern Alps are replaced by Eurosiberian counterparts towards the west. It appears that geographical abundance variation reflects colonization history.
3246749|A new predictive modelling technique called the fuzzy envelope model (FEM) is introduced. The technique can be used to predict potential distributions of organisms using presence-only locality records and a set of environmental predictor variables. FEM uses fuzzy logic to classify a set of predictor variable maps based on the values associated with presence records and combines the results to produce a potential distribution map for a target species. This technique represents several refinements of the envelope approach used in the BIOCLIM modelling package. These refinements are related to the way in which FEMs deal with uncertainty, the way in which this uncertainty is represented in the resultant potential distribution maps, and the way that these maps can be interpreted and applied. To illustrate its potential use in biogeographical studies, FEM was applied to predicting the potential distribution of three invasive alien plant species (Lantana camara L., Ricinus communis L. and Solarium mauritianum Scop.), and three native cicada species (Capicada decora Germar, Platypleura deusta Thun. and P. capensis L.) in South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland. These models were quantitatively compared with models produced by means of the algorithm used in the BIOCLIM modelling package, which is referred to as a crisp envelope model (the CEM design). The average performance of models of the FEM design was consistently higher than those of the CEM design. There were significant differences in model performance among species but there was no significant interaction between model design and species. The average maximum kappa value ranged from 0.70 to 0.90 for FEM design and from 0.57 to 0.89 for the CEM design, which can be described as 'good' to 'excellent' using published ranges of agreement for the kappa statistic. This technique can be used to predict species' potential distributions that could be used for identifying regions at risk from invasion by alien species. These predictions could also be used in conservation planning in the case of native species.
2673396|We are still far from knowing, even approximately, the number of extant mammal species. Successive attempts over the last half-century to tally mammals of the world have produced a steadily (or perhaps exponentially) climbing total. By analysing nomenclature for Neotropical mammals, two well-defined biases are documented that are associated with species accumulation. First, definite trends in body size are evident, so that larger organisms were more quickly apparent to systematists. Most species being described today are small-bodied forms. Secondly, the locus of descriptive taxonomic work on this fauna has clearly shifted seriatim from continental European scientists and institutions, through British and American counterparts, to Latin American institutions. Although specifying these and other biases might focus models of species accumulation, there are no real short cuts in the global effort to inventory and document biological diversity.
3877739|Biological specimens in museums and herbaria are sometimes used to compare the geographical distribution of different species. In doing so, it is necessary to account for differences in the numbers of specimens. We show how rarefaction can be used for this purpose. Rarefaction is a simple mathematical method originally designed to compare species richness in communities that differed in the number of sampled individuals. We present an example involving two Phragmipedium orchid species. In this case, rarefaction suggests that the apparent difference in range can be explained by the difference in the numbers of specimens.
41058169|Aim Effective conservation of biodiversity relies on an unbiased knowledge of its distribution. Conservation priority assessments are typically based on the levels of species richness, endemism and threat. Areas identified as important receive the majority of conservation investments, often facilitating further research that results in more species discoveries. Here, we test whether there is circularity between funding and perceived biodiversity, which may reinforce the conservation status of areas already perceived to be important while other areas with less initial funding may remain overlooked. Location Eastern Arc Mountains, Tanzania. Methods We analysed time series data (1980-2007) of funding (n = 134 projects) and plant species records (n = 75,631) from a newly compiled database. Perceived plant diversity, over three decades, is regressed against funding and environmental factors, and variances decomposed in partial regressions. Cross-correlations are used to assess whether perceived biodiversity drives funding or vice versa. Results Funding explained 65% of variation in perceived biodiversity patterns -six times more variation than accounted for by 34 candidate environmental factors. Cross-correlation analysis showed that funding is likely to be driving conservation priorities and not vice versa. It was also apparent that investment itself may trigger further investments as a result of reduced start-up costs for new projects in areas where infrastructure already exists. It is therefore difficult to establish whether funding, perceived biodiversity, or both drive further funding. However, in all cases, the results suggest that regional assessments of biodiversity conservation importance may be biased by investment. Funding effects might also confound studies on mechanisms of species richness patterns. Main conclusions Continued biodiversity loss commands urgent conservation action even if our knowledge of its whereabouts is incomplete; however, by concentrating inventory funds in areas already perceived as important in terms of biodiversity and/or where start-up costs are lower, we risk losing other areas of underestimated or unknown value.
4539937|Saproxylic beetles constitute a significant proportion of boreal forest biodiversity. However, the long history of timber production in Fennoscandia has significantly reduced the availability of dead wood and is considered a threat to the conservation of saproxylic beetle assemblages. Therefore, since the mid-1990s dead wood retention in harvested stands has formed an integral part of silvicultural practices. However, the contribution of this biodiversity-orientated management approach to conserving saproxylic beetle assemblages in boreal forest landscapes that include production forestry remains largely untested. We examined differences in resident saproxylic beetle assemblages among stands under different management in a boreal forest landscape in Central Sweden, and in particular stands managed according to new conservation-orientated practices. We also investigated the relationship between beetle diversity and forest stand characteristics. Bark of coarse woody debris (CWD) was sieved for beetles in old managed stands, unmanaged nature reserves, and set-aside areas, and clear-cut stands harvested according to certification guidelines [new forestry (NF) clear-cuts]. All stand types contributed significantly to the total diversity of beetles found. While stand size, position, and distance to nearest reserve were unimportant, both the quality and the quantity of CWD in stands contributed significantly to explaining beetle abundance and species richness. This extends the previous findings for red-listed invertebrates, and shows that heterogeneous substrate quality and a range of management practices are necessary to maintain saproxylic beetle diversity in boreal forest landscapes that include production forestry. The unique abiotic conditions in combination with the abundant and varied CWD associated with NF clear-cuts form an important component of forest stand heterogeneity for saproxylic beetles. It is thus essential that sufficient, diverse, CWD is retained in managed boreal landscapes to ensure the conservation of boreal saproxylic beetle assemblages.
3246702|Benthic marine organisms are characterized by a bipartite life history in which populations of sedentary adults are connected by oceanic transport of planktonic propagules. In contrast with the terrestrial case, where 'long distance dispersal' (LDD) has traditionally been viewed as a process involving rare events, this creates the possibility for large numbers of offspring to travel far relative to the spatial scale of adult populations. As a result, the concept of LDD must be examined carefully when applied in a marine context. Any measure of LDD requires reference to an explicit 'local' scale, often defined in terms of adult population demography, habitat patchiness, or the average dispersal distance. Terms such as 'open' and 'closed' are relative, and should be used with caution, especially when compared across different taxa and systems. We use recently synthesized data on marine propagule dispersal potential and the spread of marine invasive species to draw inferences about average and maximum effective dispersal distances for marine taxa. Foremost, our results indicate that dispersal occurs at a wide range of scales in marine communities. The nonrandom distribution of these scales among community members has implications for marine community dynamics, and for the implementation of marine conservation efforts. Second, in agreement with theoretical results, our data illustrate that average and extreme dispersal scales do not necessarily covary. This further confounds simple classifications of 'short' and 'long' dispersers, because different ecological processes (e.g. range expansion vs. population replenishment) depend on different aspects of the dispersal pattern (e.g. extremes vs. average). Our findings argue for a more rigorous quantitative view of scale in the study of marine dispersal processes, where relative terms such as 'short' and 'long', 'open' and 'closed', 'retained' and 'exported' are defined only in conjunction with explicit definitions of the scale and process of interest. This shift in perspective represents an important step towards unifying theoretical and empirical studies of dispersal processes in marine and terrestrial systems.
2673382|Polyphagous insect herbivores could be expected to perform relatively well in new areas because of their ability to exploit alternative resources. We investigated relative abundance patterns of the polyphagous thrips species Frankliniella schultzei, which is characteristically found on plants from many different families, to establish the role of different host plant species in a single locality where the species is not indigenous (Brisbane, south-eastern Queensland, Australia). F. schultzei females and larvae were always present in flowers (where oviposition takes place) and never on leaves of the eight plant species that we surveyed regularly over one year. They were present in flowers of Malvaviscus arboreus in much higher densities than for any other host. F. schultzei females were more fecund and larvae developed faster on floral tissue diets of M. arboreus than on those of other hosts. M. arboreus is therefore regarded as the `primary' host plant of F. schultzei in the locality that we investigated. The other species are regarded as `minor' hosts. Available evidence indicates a common geographical origin of F. schultzei and M. arboreus. F. schultzei may therefore be primarily adapted to M. arboreus. The flowers of the minor species on which F. schultzei is also found may coincidentally share some features of the primary host. Adult thrips may therefore accumulate on minor hosts and breed there, but to a lesser extent than on the primary host. The general implications for investigating polyphagous host relationships and interpreting the ecology of these species as generalist invaders are spelt out.
20532069|Aim: Spatial modelling techniques are increasingly used in species distribution modelling. However, the implemented techniques differ in their modelling performance, and some consensus methods are needed to reduce the uncertainty of predictions. In this study, we tested the predictive accuracies of five consensus methods, namely Weighted Average (WA), Mean(All), Median(All), Median(PCA), and Best, for 28 threatened plant species. Location: North-eastern Finland, Europe. Methods: The spatial distributions of the plant species were forecasted using eight state-of-the-art single-modelling techniques providing an ensemble of predictions. The probability values of occurrence were then combined using five consensus algorithms. The predictive accuracies of the single-model and consensus methods were assessed by computing the area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver-operating characteristic plot. Results: The mean AUC values varied between 0.697 (classification tree analysis) and 0.813 (random forest) for the single-models, and from 0.757 to 0.850 for the consensus methods. WA and Mean(All) consensus methods provided significantly more robust predictions than all the single-models and the other consensus methods. Main conclusions: Consensus methods based on average function algorithms may increase significantly the accuracy of species distribution forecasts, and thus they show considerable promise for different conservation biological and biogeographical applications.
3696888|Many studies have quantified plant invasions by determining patterns of non-native species establishment (i.e. richness and absolute cover). Until recently, dominance has been largely overlooked as a significant component of invasion. Therefore, we re-examined a 6-year data set of 323 0.1 ha plots within 18 vegetation types collected in the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument from 1998 to 2003, including dominance (i.e. relative cover) in our analyses. We specifically focused on the non-native species Bromus tectorum, a notable dominant annual grass in this system. We found that non-native species establishment and dominance are both occurring in species-rich, mesic vegetation types. Therefore, non-native species dominance may result despite many equally abundant native species rather than a dominant few, and competitive exclusion does not seem to be a primary control on either non-native species establishment or dominance in this study. Unlike patterns observed for non-native species establishment, relative non-native species cover could not be predicted by native species richness across vegetation types ($R^2 < 0.001$; P = 0.45). However, non-native species richness was found to be positively correlated with relative non-native species cover and relative B. tectorum cover (R
40800806|Aim Resources can shape patterns of habitat utilization. Recently a broad foraging dichotomy between oceanic and coastal sites has been revealed for loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta). Since oceanic and coastal foraging sites differ in prey availability, we might expect a gross difference in home-range size across these habitats. We tested this hypothesis by equipping nine adult male loggerhead sea turtles with GPS tracking devices. Location National Marine Park of Zakynthos (NMPZ) Greece, central and eastern Mediterranean (Adriatic, Ionian and Aegean seas). Methods In 2007, 2008 and 2009, Fastloc GPS-Argos transmitters were attached to nine male loggerheads. In addition, a Sirtrack PTT unit was attached to one male in 2007. Four of the turtles were tracked on successive years. We filtered the GPS data to ensure comparable data volumes. Route consistency between breeding and foraging sites of the four re-tracked turtles was conducted. Foraging site home range areas and within site movement patterns were investigated by the fixed kernel density method. Results Foraging home range size ranged between circa 10 km at neritic habitats (coastal and open-sea on the continental shelf) to circa 1000 km at oceanic sites (using 90% kernel estimates), the latter most probably reflecting sparsely distributed oceanic prey. Across different years individuals did not follow exactly the same migration routes, but did show fidelity to their previous foraging sites, whether oceanic or neritic, with accurate homing in the final stages of migration. Main conclusions The broad distribution and diverse life-history strategies of this population could complicate the identification of priority marine protected areas beyond the core breeding site.
20172000|Oaxaca, located in south-west Mxico within the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot, holds exceptionally high biodiversity for several taxa, including mammals. It has four decreed natural protected areas (NPAs) covering 5% of its total area, but only three of these, covering only 0.2% of the area, are strictly protected as National Parks. The current study develops ecological niche models for 183 terrestrial mammals for use as biodiversity surrogates in a systematic conservation planning exercise. Forty-five of these species were selected on the basis of their being either endangered or threatened or otherwise listed under the Mexican Red List or because they were endemic to either Oaxaca or to Mexico. The niche models were constructed with a machine-learning algorithm (GARP, Genetic Algorithm for Rule-Set Prediction) and refined by restricting each model to sites with suitable vegetation and habitat patches contiguous with known occurrences of the species. If the entire predicted geographical distribution of each of the 45 species listed above is put under protection, the entire state of Oaxaca gets included. Therefore, we imposed different constraints on the maximum area that can be put under protection (5-30% of the area of Oaxaca) and selected nominal conservation area networks based on different percentage representation targets for the species' modelled distributions based on their conservation status (10-100%). The area selection utilized a rarity- and complementarity-based algorithm (in the ResNet software package). The goal was to have as many as possible of the 45 species at risk meet their specified representation targets in the budgeted area. The methods developed here combine ecological niche modelling and area prioritization algorithms for integrated conservation planning in a protocol that is suitable for other highly biodiverse regions.
3877724|The number of exotic ant species being dispersed to new regions by human transportation and the trade pathways responsible for this are poorly understood. In this study, the taxonomic diversity, trade pathways, and origin of exotic ants intercepted at the New Zealand border were examined for the period 1955-2005. Overall, there were a total 4355 interception records, with 115 species from 52 genera. The 10 most frequently intercepted genera, and the 20 most frequently intercepted species contributed > 90% of all records. Many of the species frequently intercepted are regarded as invasive species, and several are established in New Zealand. The most intercepted species was Pheidole megacephala. Despite a relatively low trade relationship, a high proportion (> 64%) of the exotic ants which were intercepted originated from the Pacific region. However, the majority of species intercepted from the Pacific was exotic to the region (71%), or to a lesser extent, wide-ranging Pacific native species. No endemic species from the Pacific were intercepted. The effectiveness of detecting exotic ant species at the New Zealand border ranged from 48-78% for different trade pathways, indicating a number of species remain undetected. Trade routes associated with specific geographical regions represent a major filter for the arrival of exotic ant species. Despite the importance of the Pacific as a frequent pathway, we suggest that the future establishment of exotic ant species in New Zealand is likely to be mitigated by a renewed focus on trade routes with cool temperate regions, particularly Australia.
2673415|Recently, it has been suggested that the group of patterns known as the ecological and evolutionary rules are invalid and only of interest historically. Here, I briefly review evidence for the four most prominent patterns: Bergmann's rule, Cope's rule, Rapoport's rule, and the latitudinal gradient in species richness. Although more comprehensive reviews exist for these patterns, the purpose of this paper is to highlight recent work illustrating the validity of each pattern, to question the conclusion that these patterns are only of historical interest, and to briefly explore possible connections between each of these patterns. I also recommend that meta-analytical techniques, a group of statistical methods rarely used in ecology and evolution, need to be incorporated in future tests of general trends.
2673312|Research on the function of biodiversity has stimulated a renewed interest in the mechanisms underlying the invasibility of plant communities. Conflicting results provide evidence that observational correlative studies are a dead end if isolated from manipulative experiments. Using two studies in France, Portugal and Australia we illustrate how invasion research can move from pattern observation to the investigation of processes. Artificial annual communities representing a factorial combination of one to three functional groups and one to six species per group were sown in Montpellier. Natural invasibility of the plots from the seed bank showed no strong relationship with functional or species richness. The survival of individuals of two congeneric exotic species (Conyza canadensis and C. bonariensis) introduced as seedlings did not relate to these simple diversity indices. On the other hand, their adult biomass did with a decrease in vegetative performance with increasing species richness but a decrease with increasing number of functional groups. Survival and biomass of invaders were strongly influenced by the identity of the resident functional groups. In a study of the mechanisms underlying the demographic success of the pasture weed Echium plaintaginelu in Australia, germinations in mixtures with varying numbers, densities, and identities of co-germinants showed no evidence that increasing diversity increased the competitive effect. Rather, significant reduction of recruitment resulted from increased densities. These examples suggest that patterns and mechanisms of community invasibility are likely to be far more subtle than people have acknowledged so far. Controlled experiments coupled with theoretical work are required to advance our understanding.
3246743|Studies on the resistance of communities to plant invasions at different spatial scales have yielded contradictory results that have been attributed to scale-dependent factors. Some of these studies argue either for or against Elton's notion of biotic resistance against invasions through diversity. We studied the correlation between alien weeds and native species, dividing the latter group into weedy and non-weedy species, integrating various factors that influence diversity into an analysis on the scale of the federal states of Mexico. The resulting multiple-regression models for native and alien weed species are robust (adjusted R
20172048|Aim: Nowadays, large amounts of species distribution data and software for implementing different species distribution modelling methods are freely available through the internet. As a result, methodological works that analyse the relative performance of modelling techniques, as well as those that study which species characteristics affect their performance, are necessary. We discuss three important topics that must be kept in mind when modelling species distributions, namely (i) the distinction between potential and realized distribution, (ii) the effect of the relative occurrence area of the species on the results of the evaluation of model performance, and (iii) the general inaccuracy of the predictions of the realized distribution provided by species distribution modelling methods. Location: Unspecific. Methods: Using some recent papers as a basis, we illustrate the three issues mentioned above and discuss the negative implications of neglecting them. Results: Considering a potential-realized distribution gradient, different modelling methods may be arranged along this gradient according to their ability to model any concept. Complex techniques may be more suitable to model the realized distribution than simple ones, which may be more appropriate to estimate the potential distribution. Comparisons among techniques must consider this scenario. The relative occurrence area of the species conditions the results of the evaluation scores, implying that models of rare species will unavoidably yield higher discrimination values. Moreover, discrimination values that are usually reported in the literature may imply considerable over or underestimations of the distribution of the species. Main conclusions: It is extremely important to establish a solid conceptual and methodological framework on which the emergent field of species distribution modelling can stand and develop.
3246868|Ninety-seven alien plant species were found in habitats provided by rocks and walls around 56 castles in Germany. Compared to Central European agriophytes (i.e. alien species naturalised in natural vegetation), the flora adjacent to castles had more species introduced before 1500. More alien species introduced earlier were found at castles built earlier compared to castles built later. Fifty percent of the species introduced before and during the Middle Ages were usable plants at that time, compared to 20% of usable plants among the native species in the same habitats. Species introduced earlier were mainly used for medication and nutrition, whereas later introductions were used for ornamental purposes. Compared to the total alien flora of Germany, there were more useable species at the castles, nearly the same percentage of ornamentals and fewer plants without use. These results imply that the species composition of alien species growing in the vicinity of medieval castles today may be traced back to the historical reasons for their introduction to these places.
20532115|Aim: Virtually all studies exploring the use of taxonomic surrogates in assessing patterns of diversity have focused on clear shifts in the location of samples in multivariate space. The potential use of coarser levels of taxonomic resolution to detect patterns of variability in multivariate space, corresponding to -diversity in the case of presence/absence data, remains unexplored. Here we considered five ecological data sets of highly diverse marine molluscan assemblages to test the hypothesis that patterns in compositional heterogeneity would be maintained at coarser levels of taxonomic resolution. Location: Italy, Norway, New Zealand and the Arctic. Methods: We used multivariate dispersion based on the Jaccard resemblance measure of presence/absence data as a measure of -diversity to test the null hypothesis that patterns of heterogeneity in species composition for molluscs would be maintained at coarser levels of taxonomic resolution. Tests to compare -diversities among groups (based on distances to centroids and using 9999 permutations) were carried out separately for each of five data sets at the species level and then for each of genus, family, order and class levels. Results: Differences in multivariate dispersion at the species level (heterogeneity in the identities of species) were maintained for genera and for families, but not at coarser levels of taxonomic resolution (order or class). These results were consistent across all data sets, despite differences in their spatial scale and extent, geographical location, environmental and habitat features (benthic soft sediments, rocky reefs or kelp holdfasts). Main conclusions: These results suggest that either genera or families may be used as effective taxonomic surrogates to detect spatial differences in -diversity for molluscs. The use of surrogates can provide considerable sampling efficiencies for biodiversity assessments. We consider, however, that a degree of caution and more work is needed, as heterogeneity at the species level may not be reflected by taxonomic surrogates at smaller spatial scales.
3696863|Testate amoebae (Protozoa: Rhizopoda) are common inhabitants of peatlands. Strong relationships between community composition and substrate moisture in Sphagnum-dominated peatlands have made them particularly useful as hydrological proxies in environmental and palaeoenvironmental research. However, stability of these relationships in geographical space is important for widespread applicability. In this study, we compared testate amoeba communities inhabiting Sphagnum-dominated peatlands of the Great Lakes and Rocky Mountain regions of North America. Our primary objectives were to describe patterns of community composition in the two regions, develop hypotheses to explain differences, and determine if taxa occupy similar ecological niches with respect to substrate moisture in both places. Our results indicated that testate amoeba communities are relatively different in the two regions, and these differences are probably caused by differences in climate and peatland trophic status, although other factors may also play a role. However, many taxa do occur in both regions and these taxa had comparable moisture preferences in each region, suggesting that the ecological niches of taxa with respect to substrate moisture are similar even within communities of relatively different composition.
3246762|We investigated the effects of recent fires on the native ant communities in two habitats of north-west Patagonia that differ in vegetation structural complexity. Using bait traps, we sampled ants in replicated scrub and steppe areas including paired burned and unburned sites. Fires significantly reduced plant cover and ant diversity only in scrub sites. The drop in diversity was due to (a) a reduction in the abundance of rare species associated with woody vegetation, and (b) an increase in the abundance of the dominant species, which thrive in more xeric microclimatic conditions. Consequently, ant assemblage structure of burned scrub approaches that of steppe sites. Our findings suggest that the effects of disturbances on ant assemblages depends both on habitat characteristics, which in turn determine the extent of the changes induced by the disturbance, and on the regional context of the ant fauna, which in turn determines the ability of the ants to deal with the post-disturbance conditions.
3696927|The Puerto Rican frog, Eleutherodactylus coqui, has invaded Hawaii and has negatively impacted the state's multimillion dollar floriculture, nursery and tourist industries; however, little is known about the ecological consequences of the invasion. Using data from Puerto Rico and Hawaii, the authors summarize the potential consequences of the invasion and describe future research needs. It could be predicted that the coqui would reduce the abundance of Hawaii's endemic invertebrates. However, data suggest that coquis are mostly consuming non-native invertebrates, and not invertebrate pests, such as mosquitoes and termites. Endemic invertebrates are likely to represent a portion of the coqui diet, but it remains uncertain which endemic invertebrates are most threatened by coqui predation and whether there will be indirect effects that benefit or harm them. It could be predicted that coquis would compete with endemic birds for invertebrate prey, but there is presently little overlap in the habitats used by coquis and endemic birds. Although, coquis may make bird re-invasion into lowland ecosystems more difficult; alternatively, coquis could serve as an additional food source for some endemic birds. Finally, it could be predicted that coquis serve as a food source for endemic-bird predators, such as rats and mongoose, and bolster their abundance. Preliminary data suggest that coquis will not bolster rat or mongoose populations. Managing coqui populations in Hawaii has been a challenge. A population has not yet been eradicated using citric acid, the only federally approved pesticide for coquis. It is unlikely that coquis will ever be eradicated from the islands of Hawaii and Maui, where there are now hundreds of populations. Quick and severe responses to new introductions may be the only effective means of containing the spread of the coqui.
3696882|We provide a review of multicriteria decision-making (MCDM) methods that may potentially be used during systematic conservation planning for the design of conservation area networks (CANs). We review 26 methods and present the core ideas of 19 of them. We suggest that the computation of the non-dominated set (NDS) be the first stage of any such analysis. This process requires only that alternatives be qualitatively ordered by each criterion. If the criteria can also be similarly ordered, at the next stage, Regime is the most appropriate method to refine the NDS. If the alternatives can also be given quantitative values by the criteria, Goal Programming will prove useful in many contexts. If both the alternatives and the criteria can be quantitatively evaluated, and the criteria are independent of each other but may be compounded, then multi-attribute value theory (MAVT) should be used (with preferences conveniently elicited by a modified Analytic Hierarchy Process (mAHP) provided that the number of criteria is not large).
2673422|The shift in emphasis from single species to ecosystem conservation is revealing how community interactions can potentially influence single species viability and conservation. Although there is much theory and empirical data concerning the dynamic consequences of exploitative interactions, there is still a very poor understanding of the effects of interference interactions. Recent studies, as shown in this review, have documented widespread effects of such interactions among mammalian carnivores. Harassment, loss of kills and intraguild predation have been documented in a wide range of species. The demonstrated effects also include avoidance of larger carnivores in both time and space and reductions in one species density or even total exclusion from certain habitats or regions. Our review of the literature thus provides a range of empirical examples that together demonstrate that these interactions have very important implications on carnivore demography. We believe that the effects of interference might differ strongly from the effects of exploitative competition. This is because interference might have the potential to affect population growth in an inverse density-dependent manner and thereby also reduce population growth at low densities, therefore increasing extinction probabilities. These factors need to be considered when planning future multi-species conservation. Further research into the temporal and spatial aspects of co-existence are required if diverse guilds and communities are to be conserved.
20172055|Aim: This study investigates the amount and distribution of genetic variation within and among populations of the highly invasive tree, Miconia calvescens (Melastomataceae; hereafter miconia), in tropical island habitats that are differently impacted (distribution and spread) by this weed. Location: Invasive populations were included from northern and southern Pacific islands including the Hawaiian Island (Hawaii, Kauai and Maui), Marquesas Islands (Nuku Hiva), Society Islands (Tahiti, Tahaa, Moorea, Raiatea) and New Caledonia. Methods: We used 9 codominant microsatellite and 77 highly variable dominant intersimple sequence repeat markers (ISSRs) to characterize and compare genetic diversity among and within invasive miconia populations. For the codominant microsatellite data we calculated standard population genetic estimates (heterozygosity, number of alleles, inbreeding coefficients, etc.) and described population genetic structure using AMOVA, Mantel tests (to test for isolation by distance), unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages (UPGMA) cluster analysis and principal components analysis (PCA). We also tested for the presence of a population bottleneck and used a Bayesian analysis of population structure in combination with individual assignment tests. For the dominant ISSR data we used AMOVA, PCA, UPGMA and a Bayesian approach to investigate population genetic structure. Results: Both markers types showed little to no genetic differentiation among miconia populations from northern and southern Pacific hemispheres (AMOVA: microsatellite, 3%; ISSR, 0%). Bayesian and frequency-based analysis also failed to support geographical genetic structure, confirming considerable low genetic differentiation throughout the Pacific. Molecular data furthermore showed that highly successful miconia populations throughout the Pacific are currently undergoing severe bottlenecks and high levels of inbreeding (f = 0.91, ISSR;
20532066|Aim: Invasion ecology includes many hypotheses. Empirical evidence suggests that most of these can explain the success of some invaders to some degree in some circumstances. If they all are correct, what does this tell us about invasion? We illustrate the major themes in invasion ecology, and provide an overarching framework that helps organize research and foster links among subfields of invasion ecology and ecology more generally. Location: Global. Methods: We review and synthesize 29 leading hypotheses in plant invasion ecology. Structured around propagule pressure (P), abiotic characteristics (A) and biotic characteristics (B), with the additional influence of humans (H) on P, A and B (hereon PAB), we show how these hypotheses fit into one paradigm. P is based on the size and frequency of introductions, A incorporates ecosystem invasibility based on physical conditions, and B includes the characteristics of invading species (invasiveness), the recipient community and their interactions. Having justified the PAB framework, we propose a way in which invasion research could progress. Results: By highlighting the common ground among hypotheses, we show that invasion ecology is encumbered by theoretical redundancy that can be removed through integration. Using both holistic and incremental approaches, we show how the PAB framework can guide research and quantify the relative importance of different invasion mechanisms. Main conclusions: If the prime aim is to identify the main cause of invasion success, we contend that a top-down approach that focuses on PAB maximizes research efficiency. This approach identifies the most influential factors first, and subsequently narrows the number of potential causal mechanisms. By viewing invasion as a multifaceted process that can be partitioned into major drivers and broken down into a series of sequential steps, invasion theory can be rigorously tested, understanding improved and effective weed management techniques identified.
20532090|Aim: To highlight the benefit of using habitat use to improve the accuracy of predictive road fatality models. Location: The Snowy Mountains Highway in southern New South Wales, Australia. Methods: A binary logistic regression model was constructed using wombat fatality presences and randomly generated absences. Species-specific habitat variables were included as predictors in the model selection process as well as two spatially explicit measures of wombat habitat use. Generalized additive models (GAMs) were constructed for each possible combination of predictors in R. The final model was selected by comparing all models subsets for the eight predictors and employing the one standard error rule to select the best model set. Results: The final predictive model had high discriminatory power and incorporated both measures of species habitat use, greatly exceeding the variation explained by a previously published model for the same species and road. Main Conclusions: Our findings highlight the importance of incorporating variables that describe habitat use by fauna for predictive modelling of animal-vehicle crashes. Reliance upon models that ignore landscape patterns are limited in their capacity to identify hotspots and inform managers of locations to engage in mitigation.
40930616|Aim Anolis lizard invasions are a serious threat world-wide, and information about how this invasive predator affects the diversity of prey assemblages is important for many strategic conservation goals. It is hypothesized that these predators reduce the slope of species-area relationships (SARs) of their prey assemblages. The effects of island area and prdation by anolis lizards on the species richness of insular insect assemblages were investigated. Location Twenty-four isles around Staniel Cay, Exuma Cays, Bahamas. Methods Flying insects were sampled using half-sized Malaise traps for three consecutive days on each island in May 2007. First, the effect of island area on the probability of lizard presence was evaluated. Then, the effects of the presence-absence of predatory lizards on SARs were analysed for the overall insect assemblage and for the assemblages of five dominant insect orders. Results Our results indicated that anolis lizards occurred primarily on larger islands. The species richness of the overall insect assemblage and five dominant insect orders significantly increased with island area. The interaction between island area and predator presence-absence significantly affected the overall insect assemblage and Diptera and Hymenoptera assemblages (but not Coleoptera, Hemiptera and Lepidoptera assemblages). The presence of predators caused decreases in the slope of the SARs. Main conclusions The presence of predatory lizards strongly affects species richness of insular insect assemblages with the island area being a crucial determinant of the species richness. Therefore, the slope of the SAR can serve as a measure of the consequence of invasive predatory species on native insect assemblages.
40930615|Aim Habitat loss and fragmentation are amongst the greatest threats to biodiversity world-wide. However, there is still little evidence on the relative influence of these two distinct processes on biodiversity, and no study, to date, has investigated the independent contribution of structural connectivity in addition to habitat loss and fragmentation. The aim of this study is to evaluate the independent effects of habitat loss (the decrease in total amount of habitat), habitat fragmentation per se (habitat subdivision) and structural connectivity (in the form of hedgerow networks) on the distribution of seven resident forestdependent birds in central Italy. Location Central Italy. Methods We strategically selected 30 landscapes (each of 16 km in size) with decreasing total amount of forest cover and with contrasting configuration of patches and contrasting lengths of hedgerow networks. Presence/absence of birds in each landscape unit was studied through point counts. Results The amount of forest cover in the landscape had the strongest relative influence on birds' occupancy, whilst habitat subdivision played a negligible role. Structural connectivity and the geographic position of the landscape unit played a relatively important role for four species. Main conclusions Our study shows the importance of disentangling the contribution of different landscape properties in determining distribution patterns. Our results are consistent with the fact that halting habitat loss and carrying out habitat restoration should be conservation priorities, since habitat loss is the main factor affecting the distribution of the target species; implementation of structural connectivity through hedgerows, instead, should be evaluated with caution since its contribution is secondary to the predominant role of habitat loss.
20172062|Aim: Gap analysis is a well-established conservation technique that identifies areas in which selected elements of biodiversity are represented and through comparison with existing in situ protected area networks identifies habitats or ecosystems that need additional protection. We aim to demonstrate that gap analysis may be extended to encompass both in situ and ex situ genetic diversity conservation strategies. Location: Global, with exemplar case study from sub-Saharan Africa. Methods: An extended methodology of gap analysis is proposed that involves the following steps: (1) circumscription of target taxon and target area; (2) assessment of natural diversity through a review of intrinsic taxonomic, genetic and ecogeographical diversity combined with threat assessment; (3) assessment of current complementary in situ and ex situ conservation strategies; and (4) reformulation of the conservation strategy through analysis of the differences between the pattern of natural, intrinsic diversity and the elements of that diversity already effectively represented by existing in situ and ex situ conservation actions. Results: To illustrate the gap analysis approach proposed, the methodology was applied to the conservation of African Vigna species (cowpea Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. and its wild relatives) and indicated: (1) genetic reserves should be established at the southern tip of Lake Tanganyika, the coastal area of Sierra Leone and between Lake Victoria and the other Great Lakes, and (2) 14 taxa and several countries should be targeted for further seed collection. Main conclusions: The robust nature of the extended methodology for gap analysis has been demonstrated and indicates that its scope as an effective conservation tool may be expanded to fully address the need for a more comprehensive and complementary conservation strategy that encompasses both in situ and ex situ applications. However, it should be stressed that the methodology is applicable for any form of biodiversity (wild or cultivated), where the conservation of genetic diversity is the prime goal.
3696829|This article reviews the most common methods used today for estimating divergence times and rates of molecular evolution. The methods are grouped into three main classes: (1) methods that use a molecular clock and one global rate of substitution, (2) methods that correct for rate heterogeneity, and (3) methods that try to incorporate rate heterogeneity. Additionally, links to the most important literature on molecular dating are given, including articles comparing the performance of different methods, papers that investigate problems related to taxon, gene and partition sampling, and literature discussing highly debated issues like calibration strategies and uncertainties, dating precision and the calculation of error estimates.
20171942|Rapid losses and degradation of natural habitats in the tropics are driving catastrophic declines and extinctions of native biotas, including angiosperms. Determining the ecological and life-history correlates of extinction proneness in tropical plant species may help reveal the mechanisms underlying their responses to habitat disturbance, and assist in the pre-emptive identification of species at risk from extinction. We determined the predictors of extinction proneness in 1884 locally extinct (n = 454) and extant (n = 1430) terrestrial angiosperms (belonging to 43 orders, 133 families, and 689 genera) in the tropical island nation of Singapore (699.4 km), which has lost 99.6% of its primary lowland evergreen rainforest since 1819. A wide variety of traits such as geographical distribution, pollination system, sexual system, habit, habitat, height, fruit/seed dispersal mechanism, and capacity for vegetative re-sprouting were used in the analysis. Despite controlling for phylogeny (as approximated by family level classification), we found that only a small percentage of the variation in the extinction probability could be explained by these factors. Epiphytic, monoecious, and hermaphroditic species and those restricted to inland forests have higher probabilities of extinction. Species dependent on mammal pollinators also probably have higher extinction probabilities. More comparative studies that use species traits to identify extinction-prone plant species are needed to guide the enormous, but essential task of identifying species most in need of conservation action.
3696879|The present study demonstrates the possibility of estimating species numbers of animal or plant communities from samples using relative abundance distributions. We use log-abundance-species-rank order plots and derive two new estimators that are based on log-series and lognormal distributions. At small to moderate sample sizes these estimators appear to be more precise than previous parametric and non-parametric estimators. We test our estimators using samples from 171 published medium-sized to large animal and plant communities taken from the literature. By this we show that our new estimators define also limits of precision.
20532089|Aim: To describe and analyse phylogeographical patterns in the endangered endemic lizard Podarcis lilfordi from across its remaining range and thereby establish baseline information on genetic diversity that will help determine conservation priorities and assist future reintroduction programs. Location: Balearic Islands, Spain. Methods: We analysed mitochondrial DNA (2382 bp sequence from eight genes) from 118 individuals and characterized the relationships among haplotypes using parsimony networks, as well as phylogenetic inference. Analyses of historical gene flow and population growth were used to provide further insights into population histories. Results: Four unconnected parsimony networks were obtained that mirrored the main clades in the phylogenetic tree: (I) all Menorcan populations, (II) Dragonera, Malgrats and Toro islands (Western Mallorca) (III and IV) and the remaining populations from Cabrera and Mallorca. Two major haplotype groups were detected in Menorca (I) and these provided signatures of a demographic expansion and asymmetrical historical gene flow, respectively, concordant with the expected direction of colonization from south to north of the island. Populations from western Mallorca (II) showed evidence of historical allopatric fragmentation events following isolation around the start of the Pleistocene. In networks III and IV, Cabreran populations appear to have become isolated from north and south Mallorca quite recently, with asymmetric gene flow indicating a northwards dispersal direction. Main conclusions: P. lilfordi is a genetically diverse species that shows substantial mtDNA structuring both between regions and, at a finer scale, between some islet populations within regions. The precarious state of some islet populations shown here to be quite divergent (e.g. Toro island in western Mallorca) means that conservation of this intraspecific biodiversity requires urgent action.
2673319|A study was conducted to describe the major features of geographical and temporal variation in the diversity of grassland grasshopper species (Orthoptera: Acridoidea) in different sites of the Pampas, Argentina. Species richness and relative abundance were assessed at 12 sites in eastern La Pampa and western Buenos Aires provinces, from 1994 through 1999. Mean species richness at the regional level was 10, and 34 grasshopper species were collected throughout of the study. Comparison with grasshopper species diversity from the Great Plains of North America is discussed. An evaluation of the proportions of species in each of the three distribution groups (broad, intermediate and narrow) revealed that, over all sites, broadly distributed species made up 14.7% of species composition and intermediately and narrowly distributed species made up 26.5% and 58.8%, respectively. The three top-ranked species in the studied sites were Dichroplus elongatus, D. pratensis and Staurorhectus longicornis. Results showed that, contrary to what was expected, one of the widely distributed species in the region (i.e. Baeacris punctulatus) does not always constitute one of the most abundant species. Finally, the loss of one of the historically most common species in the Pampas, D. maculipennis, is also discussed.
40604223|Aim Lowland woodlands in Europe went through dramatic changes in management in the past century. This article investigates the influence of two key factors, abandonment of coppicing and increased pressure of ungulates, in thermophilous oakwoods. We focused on three interconnected topics: (1) Has the assumed successional trend lead to impoverishment of the vegetation assemblages? (2) Has it resulted in vegetation homogenization? (3) Are the thermophilous oakwoods loosing their original character? Location Czech Republic, Central Europe. Methods The vegetation in 46 semi-permanent plots was recorded three times: firstly, shortly after the abandonment of coppicing (1953) and then, after four to six decades of secondary succession and strong game impact (1992 and 2006).Overall trends and changes in species spectra were analysed. Results There is a marked successional shift towards species-poorer communities growing in cooler, moister and nutrient-richer conditions. The change was significantly different in parts affected and unaffected by high numbers of ungulates yet only for herbs, not the woody species. However, observed change in species composition was not accompanied by significant homogenization process that is the general process reported from elsewhere. A sharp decline in plant species typical for thermophilous woodland communities and in endangered species indicates that the original character of the woodland has been gradually lost. Main conclusions Thermophilous oakwoods have been largely replaced by mesic forests. Lowland oakwoods in continental parts of Europe historically depended on active management, which kept the understorey conditions light and warm.Successional processes in the 20th century caused a critical loss of species diversity at various spatial levels. However, artificially high numbers of ungulates, which otherwise have a negativeimpact, probably held up succession, so that the changes may still be reversible.
41058145|Aim The scale of observation is important in detecting the spatial variation of biological assemblages, which should be taken into consideration for an appropriate plan of biogeographical conservation. We investigated whether (1) World Wildlife Fund's ecoregion units are the appropriate scale for conserving ant diversity in Iran, (2) each ecoregion represents a distinct ant community composition and (3) patterns of diversity partitioning differ among four ecoregions. Location Iran, a sampling transect along four arid and semi-arid ecoregions. Methods We applied hierarchical partitioning to data collected from a nested sampling design including four hierarchical levels: 'local, 'landscape', 'ecoregional and 'whole-region . Observed alpha and beta diversity components were compared with values of null distributions. Hierarchical cluster analysis was applied to evaluate similarity of ant species composition among ecoregions. Results Partitioning of whole-region species richness showed that 85% of the species richness was generated by beta diversity among ecoregions and landscapes. The highest value of diversity was generated by beta diversity among ecoregions. Unlike whole-region partitioning, separate partitioning within each ecoregion revealed that beta component among localities contributed to species richness of each ecoregion. Ecoregions showed different patterns of diversity partitioning. The alpha component contributed largely to the total diversity of two ecoregions, but for two other ecoregions, beta component contributed more than alpha component. Cluster analysis identified four discrete ant species compositions; however, it split landscapes of one ecoregion into two distinct groups. Main conclusions Whole-region diversity partitioning indicates that ecoregions represent the appropriate scale for conserving ant diversity and that each ecoregion has a distinct ant fauna. However, different conservation strategies should be considered for different ecoregions owing to the differing scales of variation within them. Boundaries of ecoregions remain a subject for further studies. The influence of climate change on ecoregional boundaries should be considered and should be predicted with respect to future conservation maps.
40390758|Aim Invasive species distribution and abundance data are essential for management decisions on mitigating impacts but is seldom available. Here, we use scale-area curves to assess the distribution, abundance and consequent management implications of an invasive plant (Acacia longifolia) within selected occupancy grid cells, spread across regional ranges and representing the full national extent. We determine whether occupancy patterns are explained by climatic suitability or range structure and identify areas where A. longifolia can still be regarded as an important invasive based on contiguous occupancy. Location South Africa including the Fynbos, Thicket, Savanna and Grassland biomes. Methods The quarter degree occupancy of A. longifolia was used to select core, edge, and climatically unsuitable grid cells within different regions of the national range. Cells were surveyed across a linear resolution from 25 km to 2.5 m allowing the first multi-scales description of an invasive species' space-filling properties. Patterns from grid cells in turn were viewed regionally to describe regional variation in spatial structure. Results In regions with contiguous areas of favourable habitat, scale-area curves indicated greater occupancy in core than edge areas, whereas patterns were reversed when suitable areas were more fragmented. Also, at times climatically suitable areas were unoccupied, while unsuitable areas were occupied. Within cells, occupancy was well explained by the presence of fynbos vegetation types, while nationally, contiguous occupancy was almost exclusive to the Fynbos Biome. Main conclusions Scale-area curves can advance the understanding of biological invasions and invasive plant distributions. Here, we detected potential areas of invasive concern, plus differences in abundance and distribution patterns, and associated correlates, at landscape and national scales. As there was no general relationship between range position or climatic suitability and A. longifolia's spatial structure, we propose habitat suitability as an alternative explanation which, in turn, suggests limited range expansion potential.
40930617|Aim The introduction of non-native species into aquatic environments has been linked with local extinctions and altered distributions of native species. We investigated the effect of non-native salmonids on the occupancy of two native amphibians, the long-toed salamander (Ambystoma macrodactylum) and Columbia spotted frog (Rana luteiventris), across three spatial scales: water bodies, small catchments and large catchments. Location Mountain lakes at  1500 m elevation were surveyed across the northern Rocky Mountains, USA. Methods We surveyed 2267 water bodies for amphibian occupancy (based on evidence of reproduction) and fish presence between 1986 and 2002 and modelled the probability of amphibian occupancy at each spatial scale in relation to habitat availability and quality and fish presence. Results After accounting for habitat features, we estimated that A. macrodactylum was 2.3 times more likely to breed in fishless water bodies than in water bodies with fish. Ambystoma macrodactylum also was more likely to occupy small catchments where none of the water bodies contained fish than in catchments where at least one water body contained fish. However, the probability of salamander occupancy in small catchments was also influenced by habitat availability (i.e. the number of water bodies within a catchment) and suitability of remaining fishless water bodies. We found no relationship between fish presence and salamander occupancy at the large-catchment scale, probably because of increased habitat availability. In contrast to A. macrodactylum, we found no relationship between fish presence and R. luteiventris occupancy at any scale. Main conclusions Our results suggest that the negative effects of non-native salmonids can extend beyond the boundaries of individual water bodies and increase A. macrodactylum extinction risk at landscape scales. We suspect that niche overlap between non-native fish and A. macrodactylum at higher elevations in the northern Rocky Mountains may lead to extinction in catchments with limited suitable habitat.
4539908| Understanding the winter distributions of migrant birds is important because productivity and recruitment are influenced by conditions at several locations and periods in the life cycle of individuals. The western loggerhead shrike, Lanius ludovicianus excubitorides, is a threatened species in Canada, and its decline is attributed to potential limitations on the wintering grounds. We examined patterns of stable-hydrogen isotope (D) distributions in feathers of loggerhead shrikes, primarily of L. l. excubitorides, during winter at three regions in north and central Mexico, to establish relative abundance and origins of migrants. We also investigated potential movements of Mexican winter resident individuals. Using shrike museum specimens of known summer provenance, a shrike deuterium base map for Mexico was developed from isotopic measurement of feathers of resident shrikes and use of a recently established feather base map for raptors in North America. Stable hydrogen isotope analyses of inner secondary feather (s9) of all loggerhead shrikes examined in Mexico during winter indicated that north-central (Region A), north-eastern (Region B) and south-central (Region C) sites in Mexico consisted of 28.1%, 73.7% and 63.8% of migrant individuals from northern breeding grounds, respectively. Isotopic evidence suggested movements of a few local residents birds (7.9%) into the Chihuahuan desert from south-western USA and north-eastern Mexico to winter. 
20532075|Aim: Global abundance is an important characteristic of a species that is correlated with geographical distribution and body size. Despite its importance these estimates are not available since reliable field estimates are either expensive or difficult to obtain. Based on the relationship between a species' local abundance and distribution, some authors propose that abundance can be obtained through spatial distribution data from maps plotted at different scales. This has never been tested over the entire geographical range of a species. Thus, the aim of this study was to estimate global abundance of the Neotropical primate Brachyteles hypoxanthus (northern muriqui) and compare the results with available field estimates. Location: From southern Bahia to Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo states, in the Brazilian Atlantic rain forest. Methods: We compiled 25 recent occurrence localities of B. hypoxanthus and plotted them in grid cells of five different sizes (1, 25, 50, 75 and 100 km per side) to evaluate the performance and accuracy of abundance estimates over a wide range of scales. The abundance estimates were obtained by the negative binomial distribution (NBD) method and corrected by average group size to take into account primate social habits. To assess the accuracy of the method, the predicted abundances were then compared to recent independent field estimates. Results: The NBD estimates were quite accurate in predicting B. hypoxanthus global abundance, once the gregarious habits of this species are taken into account. The predicted abundance estimates were not statistically different from those obtained from field estimates. Main conclusions: The NBD method seems to be a quick and reliable approach to estimate species abundance once several limiting factors are taken into account, and can greatly impact conservation planning, but further applications in macroecological and ecological theory testing needs improvement of the method.
4539938|Using 779 herbarium and modern specimens, we reconstructed the spread of the common reed (Phragmites australis) in Quebec, Canada, where large-scale invasion of this plant species has been reported since the 1960s. All specimens were genetically differentiated using molecular tools to identify the genotype (native or exotic). The exotic genotype (haplotype M) has been present in Quebec as early as 1916, but it was rare prior to the 1970s and was almost exclusively restricted to the shores of the St. Lawrence River. The exotic genotype spread inland only after the beginning of the 1970s. In less than 20 years, a complete shift occurred, from the dominance of native genotypes to the dominance of the exotic genotype. Today, more than 95% of common reed colonies found in Quebec are dominated by the haplotype M. It is especially abundant along roads, but colonies present in marshes are also dominated by the exotic genotype. This study provides evidence that, in Quebec, the development of the highway network in the 1960s and 1970s strongly contributed to the inland expansion of the exotic genotype. Moreover, it shows the usefulness of molecular techniques for reconstructing the spread of an invader. Without the use of molecular tools, the reconstruction of invasions of exotic taxa would be impossible because of the lack of clear phenotypic differences between genotypes.
3246879|Brazilian cherry (Eugenia uniflora L.) occurs in the Brazilian Atlantic Coastal Tropical Forest from the north-eastern state of Ceara, to the southernmost state of Rio Grande do Sul. E. uniflora plays an important role in the maintenance of 'Restinga' ecosystems, at the interface between forest and strand vegetation. Here, we characterize the genetic diversity, its allocation within and between populations and the possible components of nuclear and cytoplasmic gene flow that determine the spatial distribution of the genetic variability. Five E. uniflora populations encompassing distinct biogeographical components were sampled: populations at extremes of latitudinal distribution, at an oceanic island and close to the major urban centre of Rio de Janeiro. AFLP markers showed that genetic variance among studied populations was moderate (F
41058175|Aim Apparent anthropogenic warming has been underway in South Africa for several decades, a period over which significant range shifts have been observed in some indigenous bird species. We asked whether these range shifts by birds are clearly consistent with either climate change or land use change being the primary driver. Location South Africa. Methods We categorized recent range changes among 408 South African terrestrial bird species and, using generalized linear mixed models, analysed ecological attributes of those species that have and have not changed their ranges. Results Fifty-six of the 408 taxa studied have undergone significant range shifts. Most extended their ranges towards the south (towards cooler latitudes, consistent with climate-change drivers) or west (towards drier and warmer habitats, inconsistent with climate drivers but consistent with land use drivers); very few moved east or north. Both southward and westward movers were habitat generalists. Furthermore, southward movers were mobile taxa (migrants and nomads), whereas westward movers were associated with human-modified elements in the landscape, such as croplands, plantations or buildings. Main conclusions The results suggest that both land use changes and climate change may simultaneously be influencing dynamic range shifts by South African birds, but separating the relative strengths of these two drivers is challenging, not least because both are operating concurrently and may influence some species simultaneously. Those species that respond to land use change by contracting their ranges are likely to be among the species that will be most impacted by climate change if land use practices with negative impacts are occurring in areas anticipated to become climatic refugia for these species. This highlights a pressing need to develop dynamic models of species' potential range shifts and changing abundances that incorporate population and dispersal processes, as well as ecological processes that influence habitat suitability.
41242838|Aim To explore whether the subspecific genetic entities of Acacia saligna occupy different bioclimatic niches in their native and introduced ranges and whether these niches are predictable using species distribution models (SDMs). Location Australia, South Africa and the Mediterranean Basin. Methods Species distribution models were developed in MAXENT using six climatic variables to calculate the climatic suitability of the ranges of A. saligna. We assessed (1) the subspecific niche differences identified by SDMs using measures of niche overlap and model performance; (2) the ability of SDMs to predict the most likely subspecific genetic entities present in South Africa based on comparisons to genetic data; and (3) the ability of SDMs to predict the most likely subspecific genetic entities present in the Mediterranean Basin. All model projections were assessed for sensitivity and modelled prevalence as indicators of model fit and predictability. Results The SDMs identified different subspecific bioclimatic niches in the native range. Sensitivity and modelled prevalence show that none of the models correctly predicted the full range of A. saligna in South Africa or the Mediterranean Basin. Models also show that the South African niche is different to that in the native range. Main conclusions Subspecies of A. saligna occupy quantifiably distinct bioclimatic niches in their native ranges, implying that they should occupy distinct niches in their invasive ranges. However, projections to the introduced range did not correspond with known occurrences. Our SDMs are unable to predict the full introduced niche of A. saligna at a species or subspecies level in either South Africa or the Mediterranean Basin. Range limits in the native and introduced ranges may be determined by additional factors not used in the SDMs developed in this study.
40800776|Aim The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of protection duration (years of fishing closure) and location (distance from shore) on reef fish diversity. Location Danajon Double Barrier Reef, Bohol, Philippines. Methods Reef fish abundance and size structure, by species, were obtained monthly using replicated underwater visual belt transects (n = 8; 70 x 5-m belt transects) over 3 years (2002-2005) at eight sites that included six marine reserves and two unprotected reef areas. We analysed species accumulation curves, diversity indices and abundance-biomass comparison (ABC) curves within and across the study sites to assess the influence of protection duration and location. Results Analyses showed that longer protection duration impacted reef fish diversity at both inshore and offshore sites by shifting ABC curves from higher abundance than biomass curves at fished sites to higher biomass than abundance curves at most of the protected sites. Protection duration did not significantly influence either the rate of species accumulation within sites or the 12 diversity indices measured across the study sites. The offshore sites consistently showed higher rates of species accumulation and diversity indices values than inshore sites with similar protection duration. One protected offshore young marine reserve site that has been assessed as the least well-managed showed patterns more consistent with the fished sites. Main conclusions Analyses showed that protection duration mainly impacted diversity by increasing the dominance of large-bodied species and enhancing total biomass. Besides protection duration, reserve location influenced species accumulation curves and diversity indices.
40390750|Aim The transport of organisms in ships' ballast tanks is a dominant vector for aquatic invasions worldwide. Until recently, efforts to manage this vector have overlooked the potential transport of invertebrate resting stages in the residual waters and sediments within emptied ballast tanks, i.e. NOBOB ('No Ballast On Board') tanks. The resting stages (statoblasts) of freshwater bryozoans are often buoyant and locally abundant and thus can be taken up easily during ballasting operations. They are also resistant to extreme environmental conditions and can generate new colonies after being dormant for decades; as such, they would likely remain viable propagules after lengthy transport in ship ballast tanks. This study quantified the occurrence of freshwater bryozoan statoblasts in ballast tank sediments of transoceanic ships. Location North American Great Lakes. Methods We quantified the frequency of occurrence, abundance and diversity of bryozoans (as statoblasts) in residual sediment samples taken from 51 NOBOB tanks of 33 transoceanic ships visiting the Great Lakes from 2000 to 2002. Results Our study identified 11 species, comprising nearly 12% of the total number of freshwater bryozoans known worldwide. These include two exotic species unrecorded in the Great Lakes (Fredericella sultana and Lophopus crystallinus), an exotic species already established in the region (Lophopodella carteri) and three cosmopolitan species (Plumatella casmiana, P. fungosa and P. repens). Our estimates suggest that a ship with NOBOB tanks may carry up to 10 6 statoblasts. Main conclusions The discovery of species unrecorded in the Great Lakes and the potentially large numbers of statoblasts being transported in ship ballast tanks indicate a significant risk of new species introductions. Furthermore, the presence of cosmopolitan species and an exotic species already established in the Great Lakes suggests the strong possibility of cryptic invasions via the introduction of exotic genotypes.
41242824|Aim Anthropogenic introductions of Australian Acacia spp. that become classed as alien invasive species have consequences besides the physical, spatial and ecological: there are also cultural, ethical and political considerations that demand attention from scholars in the humanities and social sciences. As practitioners in these disciplines, our aim is to reflect upon some of the social and conceptual ideas and attitudes relating to the spread of Australian Acacia spp. around the world. We therefore provide a longer-term historical and philosophical perspective using South Africa as a key example. We explain some of the cultural aspects of Australian acacias, relating them to history, philosophy and societal ideas that were once, or indeed remain, important, either regarding their exportation from Australia or their importation into other countries. Focussing principally on South Africa and Australia but including brief references to other locations, we augment the literature by making connections between acacia introductions and environmental ethics and aesthetics, national and environmental history and symbolic and other discourses. We evaluate a number of the cultural and philosophical dimensions of invasion biology as a societal response and explicate the interesting contradiction of Australian acacia introductions as simultaneously economically valuable and environmentally transformative in South Africa. Location South Africa, Australia, with references to other parts of the world. Methods This paper has been written by an interdisciplinary team (two historians, two geographers, a philosopher and an ecologist) and is conceptual and historical, conforming in language and structure to the humanities style. It relies on published and unpublished literature from this disciplinary domain and the critical evaluation of these sources. Results Many Acacia spp. from Australia have been introduced around the world, generally guided in different eras by a variety of overarching mindsets, including the colonial ethos of 'improvement' (1800s to mid 1900s), an economically driven mindset of'national development' (1900s), by a people-centred frame combining concerns of environment and livelihood in 'sustainable development' (1980s onwards), and an aesthetic ethos of ornamental planting that surfaces in all periods. The newest ethos of controlling or managing alien invasive species, a normative attitude deriving from the burgeoning of invasion biology, has more recently shaped the ideology of these plant exchanges and sharpened the focus on species that may be simultaneously both weeds and commercially valuable crops. Our perspective from the humanities and social sciences calls for a more transparent approach that clearly acknowledges such contradictions. Main conclusions We conclude that the global experiment of human-mediated Australian acacia introductions raises a number of issues that reflect changing societal concerns and demand attention from scholars in disciplines apart from the natural sciences. Here we highlight the impact of historical context in plant exchanges, the history and philosophy of science as it relates to invasion biology, and changing - sometimes divisive -societal priorities in terms of aesthetic, economic and conservation values. In particular, the case of Acacia spp. in South Africa highlights the contradictory aspects of introductions in that some species are both commercially important and environment-altering invasive plants. We argue that the contribution of disciplines beyond ecology to the debates about the invasive status of acacias enlarges our understanding and provides useful insights for botanists, foresters, managers and policy makers.
40390748|Aim We address the question of whether broad scale biogeographical structure of species diversity (SD) matches that of genetic diversity (GD) of vascular plants. Location The Mediterranean basin. Methods We normalized vascular plant species richness (SD) estimates per country using the Med-Checklist taxonomic database. We used a linear regression analysis to correlate normalized country estimates with country longitudinal position. We also compiled published and geo-referenced within-population GD data for tree species, which had populations in the Mediterranean. We normalized GD estimates for each population across species. Again, we used a linear regression analysis to correlate GD with population longitudinal position. We then compared the populations' geographical and bioclimatic trends for GD with Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) palaeo-climate data and the species current ecological requirements. Results The eastern Mediterranean and the coast of former Yugoslavia had higher SD than other regions. There was no overall spatial structure of SD in the Mediterranean, whereas there was an east-west trend of decreasing GD. This trend for GD tended to covary with an east-west warm/wet-cold/dry trend detected during the LGM. Low elevation xerothermic pine species displayed significantly less GD than higher elevation mesothermic or mountain pine species. Main conclusions We suggest that LGM climate may have significantly shaped the current longitudinal and altitudinal patterns of GD we observed in woody taxa across the Mediterranean, although it did not affect comparable SD patterns. In particular, colder LGM summer temperatures in the western Mediterranean may have reduced population sizes significantly more than in the eastern Mediterranean. As plant species richness and GD did not covary, SD and GD may not be used as surrogates of one another in the Mediterranean basin. As they contain comparatively less GD, conservation priorities in the Mediterranean should focus on hot spots of endemism and Western Mediterranean populations and species.
2999827|This paper evaluates whether the floating island model is a plausible transoceanic mode of dispersal among small to medium-sized land vertebrates. The actual Atlantic Ocean served as a model of winds and currents velocity, and data were sampled from modern marine pilot charts in two areas of the ocean. The main objective was to quantify the number of days required for a floating island to cross three Paleogene water barriers, 50, 40 and 30 Mya, namely the Atlantic Ocean, the Caribbean Sea as well as the Southeast Indian Ocean between Sundaland and the northern Australian Plate. Paleodistances and ancient circulation patterns of winds and currents are known in each region. It is proposed that paleowinds (not paleocurrents), and its effect on floating objects, were the key accelerating force of floating islands' velocity. In the most conservative scenario, the Paleogene Atlantic oceanic barrier could have been crossed westerly by a floating island in 7.7 days at 50 Mya, 10.8 days at 40 Mya and 14.7 days at 30 Mya; the Paleogene Caribbean Sea from South to North America could have been surmounted northerly in 18.2 days at 50 Mya, 16.6 days at 40 Mya and 15.1 days at 30 Mya; finally, the Southeast Indian Ocean from Australia to Sundaland could have been crossed northerly in 25.6 days at 50 Mya, 19.5 days at 40 Mya and 12.2 days at 30 Mya. There are many physical, physiological and behavioral constraints to transoceanic migrations. Such migrations can be considered as potentially successful however if it is shown that the journey did not exceed the survival limit of a given genetically viable group of animals. Metabolic studies involving survival limits to water deprivation suggest that proposed scenarios are plausible for small to medium size mammals and most land reptiles. These studies also suggest that migrating groups were probably preadapted in their original habitats (before the oceanic journey) to some degree of temporary dehydration and therefore to strong or moderate seasonal variations in water and food availability in order to survive the transoceanic event. Considering for example, the origin of the South American platyrrhine monkeys and caviomorph rodents, respective ancestors of these mammal groups probably lived in habitats with definite dry and rainy seasons. This conclusion implies that the survival limit of both platyrrhines and rodents ancestors ranged between 10 and 15 days, an assumption related to the transoceanic scenarios presented here but nevertheless compatible with dehydration studies. From the tectonic perspective, when plates are moving rapidly (27-55 mm/yr), the number of days a floating island needs to cross an oceanic water barrier is doubled every 20 My when these plates are distancing each other (e.g. South America-Africa) or fractioned by two every 20 My when the plates are approaching each other (e.g. Australia towards Southeast Asia). An additional interesting point of the model is its applicability to other epochs and other water barriers.
3696844|Extant species in human-dominated landscapes differ in their sensitivity to habitat loss and fragmentation, although extinctions induced by environmental alteration reduce variation and result in a surviving subset of species with some degree of 'resistance'. Here, we test the degree to which variable responses to habitat alteration are (1) essentially an inherent property of a taxon subject to constraints imposed by its geographical range, as suggested by Swihart et al. (2003), (2) a function of the landscape in which a species occurs, or (3) a function of spatial trends occurring on large scales. We used data collected on 33 vertebrate species during 2001-04 across the upper Wabash River basin, Indiana, in 35 square 'landscapes', each 23 km
40390775|Aim Western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) have been linked with the decline of native fish and amphibians throughout the world. Separation along the temperature niche axis may promote the long-term coexistence of introduced western mosquitofish, with native species in temperate regions. Recent research has shown that western mosquitofish can reduce the recruitment of native least chub (Iothichthys phlegethontis) endemic to the Bonneville Basin. We tested the hypotheses that cold temperatures (< 15  C in the summer, freezing winters) would: (1) reduce the aggressive and predatory effects of western mosquitofish on least chub, and (2) eliminate the overwinter survival and recruitment of western mosquitofish while having little effect on least chub recruitment. Location Bonneville Basin of Utah, USA. Methods We used short-term tests in the laboratory at the level of individuals and manipulated temperature (warm, cold and seasonal treatments) in long-term experiments using mesocosms at the population level. Results Cold temperatures ( 15  C) reduced the aggression and prdation of western mosquitofish on least chub at the level of individuals. At the population level, however, cool summers ( 15  C) eliminated recruitment in both species because they required warm summers (c. 20-30  C) to survive freezing winters. Although least chub had an overwinter advantage in survival (75% least chub, 45% western mosquitofish), it was overwhelmed by the rapid reproduction of western mosquitofish as temperatures increased in the summer. Main conclusions Studies at the level of populations are necessary to understand the ultimate effects of introduced species on native taxa. Separation along the temperature niche axis was not sufficient to promote coexistence between these species in habitats with warm summers (c. 30  C). Although coexistence may be possible in habitats with cool summers ( 20  C) and freezing winters, the ability of niche separation to promote long-term coexistence between native and introduced species may ultimately depend on their respective rates of evolution. Long-term coexistence may not be possible if introduced species can adapt to new environmental conditions faster than native species can evolve mechanisms to reduce their harmful effects.
4539979|Different distribution maps can be obtained for the same species if localities where species are present are mapped at different times. We analysed the accumulation of information over time for a group of dung beetle species in the Iberian Peninsula. To do this, we used all available information about the distribution of the group as well as data on selected species to examine if the process of discovery of species distribution has occurred in a climatically or spatially structured fashion. Our results show the existence of a well-defined pattern of temporal growth in distributional information; due to this, the date of capture of each specimen can be explained by the environmental and spatial variables associated to the collection sites. We hypothesize that such temporal biases could be the rule rather than the exception in most distributional data. These biases could affect the weighting of environmental factors that influence species distributions, as well as the accuracy of predictive distribution models. Systematic surveys should be a priority for the description of species geographical ranges in order to make robust predictions about the consequences of habitat and climate change for their persistence and conservation.
3246820|We assessed tree species density and diversity in 12 1-ha plots in four forests of the Albertine rift, western Uganda. There were 5747 trees of diameter  10 cm in 53 families, 159 genera, and 212 species. Density ranged between 344 and 557 trees ha
3246736|Most, if not all, alien plant species of the family Acanthaceae (acanths) found in tropical islands were intentionally introduced as garden ornamentals, because of their showy coloured flowers, bracts or leaves. Some have 'escaped' gardens and have naturalized in human-disturbed areas as weeds, adventives, or ruderal species. A few species have successfully invaded secondary and relatively undisturbed native wet forests. This paper reviews the naturalized alien acanths in tropical islands, and focuses on the currently invasive and potentially invasive species. This study is based on recent (1994-2004) botanical surveys and field observations conducted in several tropical oceanic islands of the Pacific and Indian Oceans, and on bibliographical searches of other tropical islands and countries. A total of 52 acanth species are naturalized in the Indo-Pacific islands; 26 of them are native to Asia, 18 to tropical America, and only 8 to Africa. The number of naturalized acanths in selected tropical oceanic and continental islands varied from 7 to 25 species and the rate of naturalized acanths (number of naturalized species/number of introduced species) from 27% to 62%. We recorded eight major invasive species: the erect herbs or shrubs Justicia carnea, Odontonema strictum, Phlogacanthus turgidus, Sanchezia speciosa and Strobilanthes hamiltonianus form dense monospecific thickets in the understorey of wet forests; the woody vine Thunbergia grandiflora smothers native trees; the creeping herb Hemigraphis alternata forms dense carpets that totally cover the ground; and the herb Ruellia brevifolia colonizes the understorey of closed-canopy wet forest. We also discuss eight potentially or incipient invasive acanths which are subspontaneous or sparingly naturalized, but which are not yet considered invasive. Most of the currently invasive acanths are sterile, the lack of fruit production being explained by the absence of pollinators and/or to their particular floral structure and reproduction modes. They reproduce vegetatively by stem fragmentation or by root suckers, and their range expansion is thus relatively slow. Their success may be attributed to their long (50-100 years) residence times, and long-distance dispersal by humans. Many potentially invasive acanths are newly introduced ornamentals that produce seeds, thus constituting potentially greater threats. The Acanthaceae is not yet recognized as an 'aggressive' plant family (e.g. compared to the Fabaceae, Melastomataceae, Poaceae, or Rosaceae). It is, however, one of the most popular ornamental families in the Tropics, and should receive more attention because of the increasing number of current and incipient invasive species found in tropical islands.
40800789|Aim To assess how changing taxonomy and distribution data affect estimates of faunal homogenization and differentiation as agents of global change in freshwater fishes. Location Provinces and territories of Canada. Methods Species presence-absence data were collated in 2000 and 2005 from regional and national lists, and faunal homogenization and differentiation were calculated using Jaccard's faunal similarity index. Differences between time periods and areas were summarized using principal coordinate analysis. Differences in faunal assemblages between native and total faunas were assessed via Whittaker's (1960) beta diversity ( w ) index and tests of differences in multivariate dispersion of fish species compositions. Results Among aquatic ecoregions in one province (British Columbia) there were four taxonomic changes and 18 distributional changes between the 2000 and 2005 databases. Pairwise Jaccard's faunal similarity index between the eight aquatic ecoregions declined by an average of 4.8% from 35.9% in native faunas to 31.1% in total faunas (introductions -extinctions/extirpations) indicating overall faunal differentiation. Average pairwise similarity declined by 0.9% between 2000 and 2005. Across thirteen provinces and territories of Canada, there were ve taxonomic changes and 61 distributional changes between the 2000 and 2005 databases. Generally, faunal homogenization increased; pairwise Jaccard's increased by an average of 1.8% from 27.1% in native faunas to 28.9% in total faunas or an average of 0.6% per comparison. Main conclusions Despite changing taxonomy and fish distribution information, comparative analysis of 2000 and 2005 databases consistently show overall faunal differentiation at the smallest (provincial) spatial scale and homogenization at the largest scale (across Canada) and that these trends continued between time periods. Homogenization and differentiation followed expectations from conceptual models based on the relative prevalence of species invasions and extinctions within communities. General conclusions of the onset and extent of homogenization and differentiation were relatively insensitive to our changing understanding of taxonomy and distribution.
40390774|Aim A key assumption in species distribution modelling is that both species and environmental data layers contain no positional errors, yet this will rarely be true. This study assesses the effect of introduced positional errors on the performance and interpretation of species distribution models. Location Baixo Alentejo region of Portugal. Methods Data on steppe bird occurrence were collected using a random stratified sampling design on a 1-km pixel grid. Environmental data were sourced from satellite imagery and digital maps. Error was deliberately introduced into the species data as shifts in a random direction of 0-1, 2-3, 4-5 and 0-5 pixels. Whole habitat layers were shifted by 1 pixel to cause mis-registration, and the cumulative effect of one to three shifted layers investigated. Distribution models were built for three species using three algorithms with three replicates. Test models were compared with controls without errors. Results Positional errors in the species data led to a drop in model performance (larger errors having larger effects -typically up to 10% drop in area under the curve on average), although not enough for models to be rejected. Model interpretation was more severely affected with inconsistencies in the contributing variables. Errors in the habitat layers had similar although lesser effects. Main conclusions Models with species positional errors are hard to detect, often statistically good, ecologically plausible and useful for prediction, but interpreting them is dangerous. Mis-registered habitat layers produce smaller effects probably because shifting entire layers does not break down the correlation structure to the same extent as random shifts in individual species observations. Spatial autocorrelation in the habitat layers may protect against species positional errors to some extent but the relationship is complex and requires further work. The key recommendation must be that positional errors should be minimised through careful field design and data processing.
4539957|The introduction of alien species to new environments is one of the main threats to the conservation of biodiversity. One particularly problematic example is that of wild ungulates which are increasingly being established in regions outside their natural distribution range due to human hunting interests. Unfortunately, we know little of the effects these large herbivores may have on the host ecosystems. This study deals with a first comparative analysis of the habitat requirements of two ungulate species that may be facing competition for resources in the south of Europe: the native Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica) and the exotic aoudad (Ammotragus lervia). The aoudad is a North African caprid introduced in 1970 as a game species in southeastern Spain. It has adapted well, and populations have been freely expanding since then. Ecological Niche Factor Analysis is used to describe the realized niche of both species where their distribution ranges merge. Both species occupy marginal areas of rugged terrain in the region. Marginality is higher for the Iberian ibex, which also presents a higher tolerance of secondary environmental gradients than the aoudad. Highly suitable areas for each species are secondarily suitable for the other. Reclassified and cross-tabulated habitat suitability maps showing the areas of potential spatial coexistence and differences in ecological traits between both species are provided. The results obtained do not allow inferring resource competition between these species. However, current aoudad expansion could result in it invading the favoured habitats of the ibex. Inadequate hunting policy and monitoring, and increasing climatic resemblance of the study region to the native aoudad areas, due to a strong desertification process, are facilitating a high rate of expansion. We strongly recommend to eradicate or, at least, monitor these exotic populations, and promote active conservation practices, if one wants to preserve the unique natural resources present in this European region.
2673380|Since its introduction in the late 1800s, the perennial tussock grass Cortaderia jubata (Lemoine) Stapf has become an increasingly frequent member of coastal plant communities in California and Oregon. In this study, the community changes associated with C. jubata invasion into the mediterranean-type vegetation of Vandenberg Air Force Base, California were examined. Pristine plots of maritime chaparral were compared with spatially and topographically matched plots dominated by C. jubata. Aerial photographs indicated that the invaded plots had previously been shrubland. C. jubata invasion created a structurally less complex perennial grassland that was markedly depauperate in native shrub species. The absence of native shrubs depressed native richness in jubata grassland, but the greater richness of both native and alien herbaceous species made overall richness in jubata grassland indistinguishable from maritime chaparral. Vegetational differences were associated with differences in arthropod and small mammal populations between vegetation types. Arthropod abundance and order diversity were lower in plots dominated by C. jubata than in adjacent chaparral. Insect traps in C. jubata plots contained a significantly smaller proportion of Hymenoptera and Homoptera and a significantly greater proportion of Araneae than traps in maritime chaparral. Rodent activity was significantly lower while rabbit activity was significantly greater in jubata grassland compared to maritime chaparral. This study indicates that the presence of C. jubata can dramatically alter the mediterranean-type landscape of central California. While it is likely that the initial establishment of C. jubata is associated with disturbances that are common in this ecosystem, the ability of C. jubata to expand from founding populations and to persist for long periods of time pose a serious threat to the native diversity of these unique systems.
41058147|Aim Over the last two decades, thousands of northward migrating ruffs (Philomachus pugnax) have disappeared from western European staging sites. These migratory ruffs were partly temperate breeding birds, but most individuals head towards the Eurasian Arctic tundras where 95% of the global population breeds. This regional decline may represent either: (1) local loss of breeding birds in western Europe, (2) a global decline, (3) shift(s) in distribution or (4) a combination of these. Location Northern Eurasia. Methods To put the declines in western Europe in context, we analysed Arctic monitoring data from the last two decades (Soloviev & Tomkovich, 2009) to detect changes in regional breeding densities across northern Eurasia. We used a novel approach applying generalized additive modelling (GAM) and generalized estimations equations (GEE). Results We show that the global breeding population of ruffs has made a significant eastwards shift into the Asian part of the breeding range. In the European Arctic, ruffs decreased during the last 18 years. At the same time, in western Siberia, ruffs increased. In eastern Siberia, no significant population changes could be detected. These changes corroborate the finding that during northward migration, growing numbers of ruffs avoided staging areas in the Netherlands and Sweden and started migrating along a more easterly route leading into western Siberia. Main conclusions We detected an unprecedented large-scale population redistribution of ruffs and suggest that this is a response to loss of habitat quality at the traditional staging site in the Netherlands.
40604226|Aim Human-related pressures are growing in species-rich regions and pose a threat to the conservation of biodiversity. Here, we use the available data for five taxonomic groups (ferns, monocotyledons, dicotyledons, birds and monkeys) to exemplify a procedure directed to discriminate the degree of conflict between human actions and biodiversity. Location Bioko island, Equatorial Guinea. Methods Using bioclimatic envelope modelling techniques devoted to produce estimations of the potential distributions, we generated geographical representations of the variation in the total number of species as well as in the number of endemic and threatened species. We then employed partial regression techniques to determine how and to what extent current environmental, habitat and human-derived variables are associated with these potential species richness values. Results Although the type of associations we looked for was sometimes difficult to discern since the same patterns could be explained by different types of variables, our results show that potential species richness values are generally positively associated with human-related factors (mainly agriculture and bushmeat hunting activities), suggesting that the localities with environmental conditions favourable to higher species richness tend to be those exploited by humans. Main conclusions We propose that the combined use of distribution models and partial regression techniques can support a better understanding of the relationship between species occurrences/preferences and human-related factors and inform future conservation initiatives, particularly in small but hyperdiverse territories, in which dispersal limitations do not play a prominent role.
20172021|Invasive species often evolve rapidly in response to the novel biotic and abiotic conditions in their introduced range. Such adaptive evolutionary changes might play an important role in the success of some invasive species. Here, we investigated whether introduced European populations of the South African ragwort Senecio inaequidens (Asteraceae) have genetically diverged from native populations. We carried out a greenhouse experiment where 12 South African and 11 European populations were for several months grown at two levels of nutrient availability, as well as in the presence or absence of a generalist insect herbivore. We found that, in contrast to a current hypothesis, plants from introduced populations had a significantly lower reproductive output, but higher allocation to root biomass, and they were more tolerant to insect herbivory. Moreover, introduced populations were less genetically variable, but displayed greater plasticity in response to fertilization. Finally, introduced populations were phenotypically most similar to a subset of native populations from mountainous regions in southern Africa. Taking into account the species' likely history of introduction, our data support the idea that the invasion success of Senecio inaequidens in Central Europe is based on selective introduction of specific preadapted and plastic genotypes rather than on adaptive evolution in the introduced range.
20532099|Aim: We investigated the relative role of area, isolation, microhabitat diversity and number of individuals as explanatory factors defining the richness of waterbirds in wetland remnants. Location: Freshwater marshes along the Atlantic coastal zone of South Brazil. (3056-3022S; 5058-5022W; Fig. 1). Methods: We surveyed waterbirds monthly for 1 year in 42 wetland remnants. We measured area, diversity of microhabitats, and isolation using aerial photographs and Landsat images. We compared the fit of the relationship between waterbird richness and wetland area across three models. We evaluated the 'passive sampling effect' comparing the observed species-area relationship with area-based and individual-based null models, performed with randomization without replacement. We used Path Analysis to measure the relative importance of direct and indirect effects of wetland area, isolation, microhabitat diversity and the total number of individuals on species richness. Results: Power functions showed that larger wetlands had proportionally fewer species, individuals and microhabitats as compared to smaller wetlands. Species richness was consistently lower than predicted by area-based and individual-based random placement null models. Path analysis showed significant direct effects of remnant area and microhabitat diversity on species richness, but no effect of isolation on species richness. When number of individuals was included in the model, it became the most important factor explaining species richness, followed by wetland area. The number of individuals was significantly influenced by area, isolation and microhabitat diversity. Main conclusions: We demonstrated that waterbird richness in fragmented landscapes is not a random placement phenomenon, but a biological one, significantly affected by the complex interplay of remnant area and isolation and diversity of microhabitats. We showed that the number of individuals plays a central role mediating the effect of these physical factors on species richness.
40390779|Aim We characterized changes in reporting rates and abundances of bird species over a period of severe rainfall deficiency and increasing average temperatures. We also measured flowering in eucalypts, which support large numbers of nectarivores characteristic of the region. Location A 30,000-km 2 region of northern Victoria, Australia, consisting of limited amounts of remnant native woodlands embedded in largely agricultural landscapes. Methods There were three sets of monitoring studies, pitched at regional (survey programmes in 1995-97, 2004-05 and 2006-08), landscape (2002-03 and 2006-07) and site (1997-2008 continuously) scales. Bird survey techniques used a standard 2-ha, 20-min count method. We used Bayesian analyses of reporting rates to document statistically changes in the avifauna through time at each spatial scale. Results Bird populations in the largest remnants of native vegetation (up to 40,000 ha), some of which have been declared as national parks in the past decade, experienced similar declines to those in heavily cleared landscapes. All categories of birds (guilds based on foraging substrate, diet, nest site; relative mobility; geographical distributions) were affected similarly. We detected virtually no bird breeding in the latest survey periods. Eucalypt flowering has declined significantly over the past 12 years of drought. Main conclusions Declines in the largest woodland remnants commensurate with those in cleared landscapes suggest that reserve systems may not be relied upon to sustain species under climate change. We attribute population declines to low breeding success due to reduced food. Resilience of bird populations in this woodland system might be increased by active management to enhance habitat quality in existing vegetation and restoration of woodland in the more fertile parts of landscapes.
4124757|Close correlations in species numbers may make it possible to indirectly assess the species richness of difficult taxonomic groups by investigating indicator groups, for which data are more easily collected. We asked if species numbers correlate among the four dominating groups of primary producers in boreal forests (liverworts, macrolichens, mosses, and vascular plants) and if substrate affiliation of species (ground vs. other substrates), sample plot size (
2999790|Herbaceous and woody alien plants visible from a moving vehicle were recorded along 1 km roadside transects at 5 km intervals over a distance of 5869 km in the semi-arid and arid Fynbos, Succulent Karoo, Nama Karoo and Arid Savanna (Kalahari) biomes in South Africa. Each 1 km transect was classified by biome and vegetation type, mean annual rainfall, rainfall seasonality, soil surface type and landuse adjoining the roadside. Although travelling speed affected the range and frequency of plant species observed, the method was repeatable at a speed of 100 km h
40800777|Aim Mediterranean coastal sand dunes are characterized by both very stressful environmental conditions and intense human pressure. This work aims to separate the relative contributions of environmental and human factors in determining the presence/abundance of native and alien plant species in such an extreme environment at a regional scale. Location 250 km of the Italian Tyrrhenian coast (Region Lazio). Methods We analysed alien and native plant richness and fitted generalized additive models in a multimodel-inference framework with comprehensive randomizations to evaluate the relative contribution of environmental and human correlates in explaining the observed patterns. Results Native and alien richness are positively correlated, but different variables influence their spatial patterns. For natives, human population density is the most important factor and is negatively related to richness. Numbers of natives are unexpectedly lower in areas with a high proportion of natural land cover (probably attributable to local farming practices) and, to a lesser degree, affected by the movement of the coastline. On the other hand, alien species richness is strongly related to climatic factors, and more aliens are found in sectors with high rainfall. Secondarily, alien introductions appear to be related to recent urban sprawl and associated gardening. Main conclusions Well-adapted native species in a fragile equilibrium with their natural environment are extremely sensitive to human-driven modifications. On the contrary, for more generalist alien species, the availability of limited resources plays a predominant role.
4539951| Invasive species are often said to be r-selected. However, invaders must sometimes compete with related resident species. In this case invaders should present combinations of life-history traits that give them higher competitive ability than residents, even at the expense of lower colonization ability. We test this prediction by comparing life-history traits among four fruit fly species, one endemic and three successive invaders, in La Runion Island. Recent invaders tend to produce fewer, but larger, juveniles, delay the onset but increase the duration of reproduction, survive longer, and senesce more slowly than earlier ones. These traits are associated with higher ranks in a competitive hierarchy established in a previous study. However, the endemic species, now nearly extinct in the island, is inferior to the other three with respect to both competition and colonization traits, violating the trade-off assumption. Our results overall suggest that the key traits for invasion in this system were those that favoured competition rather than colonization. 
3696884|Historical patterns of connection and isolation of the impressive biological diversity of the Amazon Basin have been the subject of extensive debate, based on evidence drawn from distributional patterns of endemic species, vegetation histories from palynological studies, and geological studies. We develop species-specific ecological niche models based on current occurrence patterns of 17 species of birds and woody plants, which we project onto modelled Pleistocene (Last Glacial Maximum) climatic patterns to reconstruct past potential distributions of each species. Forest species' distributions showed fragmentation at Last Glacial Maximum and these fragments were coincident spatially, whereas savanna species showed no clear trends. Our results suggest that past climate changes fragmented forest species' ranges within a matrix of uncertain composition.
2673297|Many plant traits are not randomly distributed among families. The question considered here is `are rarity and commonness of vascular plants in Fennoscandia randomly distributed among families?' If more rare or more common species are found within a family, this may give some initial indications about which traits may predict rarity and commonness of species. A species was defined as rare or common based on its abundance and on the number of grid squares it occupies. 1521 naturally occurring species in 229 75  75 km grid squares were used. Permutation tests were performed to assess statistically if rarity and commonness are randomly distributed among families. Several families can be identified as having more rare or more common species than would be expected under a random allocation model. However, there are little deviations from what would be expected if rarity and commonness were randomly distributed among families in the whole Fennoscandian flora. It is proposed that the arbitrary geographical limits of the study area may account for the lack of any clear patterns of rarity and commonness among and between families.
4539971|Can species richness and rarity be predicted from space? If satellite-derived vegetation indices can provide us with accurate predictions of richness and rarity in an area, they can serve as an excellent tool in diversity and conservation research, especially in inaccessible areas. The increasing availability of high-resolution satellite images is enabling us to study this question more carefully. We sampled plant richness and rarity in 34 quadrats (1000 m
20171996|The current range of European vipers is mostly parapatric but local-scale allopatric distribution is common and few cases of sympatry are known. In the High Course of Ebro River, northern Spain, there is a contact zone between Vipera aspis, V. latastei, and V. seoanei. Sympatry was detected between aspis and latastei and also specimens with intermediate morphological traits. Presence-data at a local scale (1  1 km) and ecological niche-based models manipulated in a GIS were used to (1) identify how environmental factors correlate with the distribution of the three vipers and with the location of the sympatry area, and (2) identify potential areas for viper occurrence and sympatry. Ensemble for casting with 10 Maximum Entropy models identified a mixture of topographical (altitude, slope), climatic (precipitation, evapotranspiration, and minimum and maximum temperature), and habitat factors (land cover) as predictors for viper occurrence. Similar predicted probabilities according to the variation of some environmental factors (indicating probable sympatry) were observed only for aspis-latastei and aspis-seoanei. In fact, areas of probable occurrence of vipers were generally allopatric but probable sympatry between vipers was identified for aspis-latastei in 76 UTM 1  1 km squares, for aspis-seoanei in 23 squares, and latastei-seoanei in two squares. Environmental factors correlate with the location of this contact zone by shaping the species range: some enhance spatial exclusion and constrain distribution to spatially non-overlapping ranges, while others allow contact between species. The distribution in the contact zone apparently results from the balance between the pressures exerted by the different environmental factors and in the sympatry area probably by interspecific competition. Further ecological and genetical data are needed to evaluate the dynamics of the probable hybrid zone. GIS and niche-modelling tools proved to be powerful tools to identify environmental factors sustaining the location of contact zones.
3246694|The leaf beetles Cryptocephalus coryli, C. decemmaculatus and C. nitidulus are of conservation concern and are included on the UK Biodiversity Action Plan. The distinctiveness of the disjunct remaining populations of these beetles was compared to that of more continuously distributed Cryptocephalus species. This was carried out with a view to defining evolutionary significant units (ESUs) in the rare species. A portion of the cytochrome b gene, an intergenic spacer and partial tRNA was analysed from 93 specimens of Cryptocephalus beetle (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae). Considerable sequence divergence was apparent in all the species, even at an intersite scale when the distances between sampled localities were very small (< 1 km). Intrapopulation, intersite and interpopulation divergence observed in the rare species was reflected in the species that have a more continuous distribution, implying that dispersal ability in these species is poor and gene flow can be impeded by relatively trivial barriers to dispersal. The evidence suggests that the disjunct populations of the rare Cryptocephalus species can, tentatively, be considered as ESUs. This has important implications for management strategies and reintroductions.
41242825|Aim To examine the different uses and perceptions of introduced Australian acacias (wattles; Acacia subgenus Phyllodineae) by rural households and communities. Location Eighteen landscape-scale case studies around the world, in Vietnam, India, Runion, Madagascar, South Africa, Congo, Niger, Ethiopia, Israel, France, Portugal, Brazil, Chile, Dominican Republic and Hawai'i. Methods Qualitative comparison of case studies, based on questionnaire sent to network of acacia researchers. Information based on individual knowledge of local experts, published and unpublished sources. Results We propose a conceptual model to explain current uses and perceptions of introduced acacias. It highlights historically and geographically contingent processes, including economic development, environmental discourses, political context, and local or regional needs. Four main groupings of case studies were united by similar patterns: (1) poor communities benefiting from targeted agroforestry projects; (2) places where residents, generally poor, take advantage of a valuable resource already present in their landscape via plantation and/or invasion; (3) regions of small and mid-scale tree farmers participating in the forestry industry; and (4) a number of high-income communities dealing with the legacies of former or niche use of introduced acacia in a context of increased concern over biodiversity and ecosystem services. Main conclusions Economic conditions play a key role shaping acacia use. Poorer communities rely strongly on acacias (often in, or escaped from, formal plantations) for household needs and, sometimes, for income. Middle-income regions more typically host private farm investments in acacia woodlots for commercialization. Efforts at control of invasive acacias must take care to not adversely impact poor dependent communities.
20172002|Shipping has contributed strongly to biological invasions in coastal ecosystems, transferring species in ballast tanks and on exposed underwater surfaces (hulls). A long history exists that documents biota associated with ships' hulls, including some recent analyses of modern ships, but relatively little is known about the associated risks of invasion. In general, the likelihood of invasion is expected to increase with increasing propagule supply, which suggests that high-density transfers on hulls may pose a relatively high invasion risk. Obsolete vessels are expected to be at an extreme end of the spectrum for biofouling, since they sit at anchorage for long periods and are towed at relatively slow speeds when moved, but this remains largely unexplored. In this paper, we quantified the biofouling communities of two obsolete vessels, one stationary for one decade and the other for two decades, before and after their final transit from California to Texas. Pre-departure biofouling surveys across both vessels detected 22 species of macroinvertebrates. The biomass was dominated by the introduced bryozoan Conopeum chesapeakensis, which occurred in 98% of samples and created a three-dimensional structure (2-5 cm thick). Mobile species, inhabiting the vertical biofouling matrix, were more numerous than sessile ones. Interestingly, the non-native Asian clam Corbula amurensis, not previously associated with hull fouling assemblages, was recorded in 9% of samples. During the 43-day voyage, organisms encountered salinity variation that ranged between zero (Panama Canal) and at least 37 parts per thousand (Brownsville, Texas) and temperatures that varied between 9.9 C and 31.6 C. Upon arrival in Texas, we measured an expected decrease in biofouling extent across both vessels but also a surprising increase in species richness (57 species were recorded), with small compositional differences between ships that did not exist prior to departure. Several species were recorded alive upon arrival, including non-natives that are not known to be established in Texas waters. The physiological tolerance and associated risk of colonization have not yet been evaluated for these organisms, or for the broader species pool associated with a standing fleet (n &gt; 200 ships) that may undergo similar movements. Nonetheless, a compelling case exists for vector management based on organism flux alone, to reduce the risk of coastwise and inter-oceanic invasions.
40800780|Aim The goal of our study was to investigate the effects of a fragmented landscape on the genetic population structure of two sympatric snake species that differ in habitat preference. The eastern garter snake (Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis) is a common, habitat generalist, whereas the endangered eastern foxsnake (Mintonius [Elaphe] gloydi) is rarer, geographically restricted, and a marsh-specialist. We were most interested in comparing the genetic population structure of both species and identifying any natural and human-created features of the landscape that overlap with genetic disjunctions. Location Southwestern Ontario, Canada, surveying over half of the remaining range of the eastern foxsnake. Methods We utilized DNA microsatellite markers to examine genetic population structure of both species. The number of genetically distinct clusters for each species was determined using both Bayesian spatial assignment and spatial principal component analyses (sPCA). Genetic clusters were overlaid onto a habitat map to deduce possible physiognomic barriers to gene flow. Results Spatial assignment revealed three genetic clusters for garter snakes and five for foxsnakes. Each individual garter snake had a near equal probability of membership to two or more clusters with no cluster mapping onto a discrete geographic region, indicating that garter snakes comprise a single genetic population. The identified foxsnake clusters correspond to geographically circumscribed locations on the landscape, roughly coincident with isolated patches of suitable habitat. sPCAs revealed significant global allelic structure for foxsnakes, but not for garter snakes. No significant local structure was found for either species. Main Conclusions Our results imply that foxsnakes and garter snakes are differentially impacted by the same landscape or have dramatically different effective population sizes. Unsuitable intervening habitat such as agricultural tracts and roads between existing populations of foxsnakes appears to act as barriers to gene flow, while garter snake movement appears unrestricted by these features. Our findings have important implications for the management of eastern foxsnakes.
20171956|Households across the developed world cumulatively spend many millions of dollars annually on feeding garden birds. While beneficial effects on avian assemblages are frequently claimed, the relationships between levels of garden bird feeding and local avian populations are unknown. Using data from a large UK city, we show that both avian species richness and abundance vary across different socioeconomic neighbourhood types. We examined whether patterns in bird feeding could explain this variation. The density of bird feeding stations across the urban environment was strongly positively related to avian abundance, after controlling for differences in habitat availability. This effect was almost exclusively driven by the abundance of those species known to utilize garden feeding stations frequently. In contrast, the density of feeding stations had no effect on avian species richness. We also examined variation in the proportion of households in different communities that provide food for birds, a factor that is not correlated with feeder density. The prevalence of bird feeding across different neighbourhoods declined as socioeconomic deprivation increased, and increased with avian species richness and abundance. Our results suggest that the provision of supplementary food for birds by multiple landowners across a city can impact the status of urban bird populations. The potential for harnessing these actions for conservation needs to be explored.
41058180|Aim To identify the bioclimatic niche of the endangered Andean cat (Leopardus jacobita), one of the rarest and least known felids in the world, by developing a species distribution model. Location South America, High Andes and Patagonian steppe. Peru, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina. Methods We used 108 Andean cat records to build the models, and 27 to test them, applying the Maxent algorithm to sets of uncorrelated bioclimatic variables from global databases, including elevation. We based our biogeographical interpretations on the examination of the predicted geographic range, the modelled response curves and latitudinal variations in climatic variables associated with the locality data. Results Simple bioclimatic models for Andean cats were highly predictive with only 3-4 explanatory variables. The climatic niche of the species was defined by extreme diurnal variations in temperature, cold minimum and moderate maximum temperatures, and aridity, characteristic not only of the Andean highlands but also of the Patagonian steppe. Argentina had the highest representation of suitable climates, and Chile the lowest. The most favourable conditions were centrally located and spanned across international boundaries. Discontinuities in suitable climatic conditions coincided with three biogeographical barriers associated with climatic or topographic transitions. Main conclusions Simple bioclimatic models can produce useful predictions of suitable climatic conditions for rare species, including major biogeographical constraints. In our study case, these constraints are also known to affect the distribution of other Andean species and the genetic structure of Andean cat populations. We recommend surveys of areas with suitable climates and no Andean cat records, including the corridor connecting two core populations. The inclusion of landscape variables at finer scales, crucially the distribution of Andean cat prey, would contribute to refine our predictions for conservation applications.
20171951|Mellitochory, seed dispersal by bees, has been implicated in long-distance dispersal of the tropical rain forest tree, Corymbia torelliana (Myrtaceae). We examined natural and introduced populations of C. torelliana for 4 years to determine the species of bees that disperse seeds, and the extent and distance of seed dispersal. The mechanism of seed dispersal by bees was also investigated, including fruit traits that promote dispersal, foraging behaviour of bees at fruits, and the fate of seeds. The fruit structure of C. torelliana, with seed presented in a resin reward, is a unique trait that promotes seed dispersal by bees and often results in long-distance dispersal. We discovered that a guild of four species of stingless bees, Trigona carbonaria, T. clypearis, T. sapiens, and T. hockingsi, dispersed seeds of C. torelliana in its natural range. More than half of the nests found within 250 m of fruiting trees had evidence of seed transport. Seeds were transported minimum distances of 20-220 m by bees. Approximately 88% of seeds were dispersed by gravity but almost all fruits retained one or two seeds embedded in resin for bee dispersal. Bee foraging for resin peaked immediately after fruit opening and corresponded to a peak of seed dispersal at the hive. There were strong correlations between numbers of seeds brought in and taken out of each hive by bees (r = 0.753-0.992, P &lt; 0.05), and germination rates were 95  5%. These results showed that bee-transported seeds were effectively dispersed outside of the hive soon after release from fruits. Seed dispersal by bees is a non-standard dispersal mechanism for C. torelliana, as most seeds are dispersed by gravity before bees can enter fruits. However, many C. torelliana seeds are dispersed by bees, since seeds are retained in almost all fruits, and all of these are dispersed by bees.
20171988|Local range expansions might either be the response of populations to climate or landscape change, or be caused directly by human intervention. In the latter case the expansion would be considered the first in the steps leading to a biological invasion. In species typically not the subject of human commerce, distinguishing the causes of local range expansions is problematic. Range dynamic theory provides a basis for doing so, and, when used to assess phylogeographical information, can be a powerful conservation biogeographical approach. Here we adopt this approach to resolve the controversial case of the recent range expansion of the painted reed frog (Hyperolius marmoratus) in southern South Africa. Within the last decade, H. marmoratus has spread westward approximately 500 km from its historical range. This local range expansion could either represent human-mediated jump dispersal, or a response to landscape or climate change. To date, the latter has been assumed, although not universally. Using a phylogeographic approach to investigate these competing hypotheses, a portion of the mitochondrial COI gene was sequenced for individuals from within the historical range (n = 178), and four putatively introduced populations in dams (n = 121). There was substantial geographical population structure within the historical range, and these populations were significantly different from the dam populations (
41058146|Aim We sampled riverine macrophyte communities and environmental conditions to compare drivers of alien and native abundance and to provide a general set of environmental correlates of invasion by aquatic macrophytes. Location Streams adjacent to three land-use types (intensive, agricultural and natural) across a large latitudinal gradient (approximately 27 S-43 S) in Australia. Sites were located near Brisbane (Queensland), Sydney (New South Wales), Canberra (Australian Capital Territory), Melbourne (Victoria) and Hobart (Tasmania). Methods Alien and native aquatic plant species cover, water quality, forest canopy and adjacent land use were measured in three catchment locations (low-, mid-and upper-catchment) in all cities. Mean richness and cover of native and alien macrophytes were compared in the five cities, three catchment locations, and three land-use types. Correlation tests examined relationships between alien and native richness at transect, site and city scales. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) determined the effects of environment on cover and richness of native and alien plant groups (mergents, floating, forbs/other, graminoids and submerged). Results Variation existed in the aquatic plant community at all scales, but strong patterns emerged with respect to land use and environmental gradients. Alien abundance was more responsive to anthropogenic disturbance (e.g. greater in intensive and agricultural land-use types, and greater where dissolved nutrients and conductivity were high) than natives, which were unaffected by land-use type and less responsive overall to environmental gradients. Native and alien richness were uncorrelated at all scales. Main conclusions Natives and aliens of the same life form did not respond similarly to the environment, suggesting inherent differences in their ability to capitalize on anthropogenic disturbance. Our results suggest invasion-susceptible habitats are those that receive nutrient pollutants and that occur in urban and agricultural areas low in the catchment. Our confidence in these patterns is strengthened by their consistency across a large latitudinal gradient.
41242842|Aim A range of approaches and philosophies underpin national-level strategies for managing invasive alien plants. This study presents a strategy for the management of taxa that both have value and do harm. Location South Africa. Methods Insights were derived from examining Australian Acacia species in South Africa (c. 70 species introduced, mostly &gt; 150 years ago; some have commercial and other values; 14 species are invasive, causing substantial ecological and economic damage). We consider options for combining available tactics and management practices. We defined (1) categories of species based on invaded area (a surrogate for impact) and the value of benefits generated and (2) management regions based on habitat suitability and degree of invasion. For each category and region, we identified strategic goals and proposed the combinations of management practices to move the system in the desired direction. Results We identified six strategic goals that in combination would apply to eight species categories. We further identified 14 management practices that could be strategically combined to achieve these goals for each category in five discrete regions. When used in appropriate combinations, the prospect of achieving the strategic goal will be maximized. As the outcomes of management cannot be accurately predicted, management must be adaptive, requiring continuous monitoring and assessment, and realignment of goals if necessary. Main conclusions Invasive Australian Acacia species in South Africa continue to spread and cause undesirable impacts, despite a considerable investment into management. This is because the various practices have historically been uncoordinated in what can be best described as a strategy of hope. Our proposed strategy offers the best possible chance of achieving goals, and it is the first to address invasive alien species that have both positive value and negative impacts.
3246695|Floristic composition of 14 mesas (i.e. flat-top mountains) in four different study areas was investigated in southern African Nama Karoo. The study areas were arranged along a latitude gradient. Two simple questions were asked: are mesas potential conservation islands (a) in terms of re-colonization potential and (b) in terms of species richness? Detailed vegetation surveys along a transect from the plains to the top of each mesa were summarized to obtain species composition for the three main habitats: plain, slopes and plateau. Floristic similarities between plains and mesa habitats were used to answer question (a), and species richness was used to answer question (b). Geographic position, high within-area variability and elevation were found to largely influence the findings, resulting in only few consistent trends. The main findings of this study were, however: (1) mesas can act as sources for re-colonization as well as havens for species adapted to mountain habitats. (2) Considering total species richness, mesa habitats were richer in species than plains in the northern, but not the southernmost study area. (3) Scaled by area, mesa plateaus emerged as the most species-rich in all study areas. (4) Smaller and medium-sized mesas showed greater re-colonization potential, i.e. shared more species with their surrounding plains. (5) Medium-sized to larger mesas supported plant communities more distinct from the surrounding plains. (6) A cut-off point of approximately 240 m above the surrounding plain was indicated for the shift from 're-colonization' to 'remnant' function. These findings stress the importance for the protection of mesa habitats in view of increasing human pressure on mountain habitats.
4124770|Although it is implicit that interactions between species depend on their traits, studies on the probability of finding related species in a community are in their infancy. Community composition and species richness of predaceous diving beetles (Dytis-cidae: Coleoptera) have been used as indicators of freshwater ecosystem function yet no incorporation of phylogenetic relationships of coexisting dytiscids has been attempted to date. Improved knowledge of phylogenetic relationships and phylogenetic community structure analysis methods may provide additional insight into the relationships between community composition and species richness, thus impacting our interpretation of aquatic indicator species metrics. Here, we use museum records of dytiscid beetles in 53 lakes of Alberta, Canada to: (1) compile a supertree of dytiscid beetles that live in the province, (2) examine whether coexisting dytiscids tend to be more or less related than expected by chance, and (3) examine whether phylogenetic structuring depends on species richness or mean size of coexisting species. We find that, although the majority of dytiscid assemblages exhibited phylogenetic clustering, the extent to which this occurred depended on the mean size of dytiscids. We discuss the potential mechanisms and implications of the observed patterns in phylogenetic clustering, along with data that would further improve our understanding of community dynamics in dytiscid beetles.
4124782|Rivers are conduits for materials and energy; this, the frequent and intense disturbances that these systems experience, and their narrow, linear nature, create problems for conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem functioning in the face of increasing human influence. In most parts of the world, riparian zones are highly modified. Changes caused by alien plants - or environmental changes that facilitate shifts in dominance creating novel ecosystems - are often important agents of perturbation in these systems. Many restoration projects are underway. Objective frameworks based on an understanding of biogeographical processes at different spatial scales (reach, segment, catchment), the specific relationships between invasive plants and resilience and ecosystem functioning, and realistic endpoints are needed to guide sustainable restoration initiatives. This paper examines the biogeography and the determinants of composition and structure of riparian vegetation in temperate and subtropical regions and conceptualizes the components of resilience in these systems. We consider changes to structure and functioning caused by, or associated with, alien plant invasions, in particular those that lead to breached abiotic- or biotic thresholds. These pose challenges when formulating restoration programmes. Pervasive and escalating human-mediated changes to multiple factors and at a range of scales in riparian environments demand innovative and pragmatic approaches to restoration. The application of a new framework accommodating such complexity is demonstrated with reference to a hypothetical riparian ecosystem under three scenarios: (1) system unaffected by invasive plants; (2) system initially uninvaded, but with flood-generated incursion of alien plants and escalating invasion-driven alteration; and (3) system affected by both invasions and engineering interventions. The scheme has been used to derive a decision-making framework for restoring riparian zones in South Africa and could guide similar initiatives in other parts of the world.
41058151|Aim Species loss has increased significantly over the last 1000 years and is ultimately attributed to the direct and indirect consequences of increased human population growth across the planet. A growing number of species are becoming endangered and require human intervention to prevent their local extirpation or complete extinction. Management strategies aimed at mitigating a species loss can benefit greatly from empirical approaches that indicate the rate of decline of a species providing objective information on the need for immediate conservation actions, e.g. captive breeding; however, this is rarely employed. The current study used a novel method to examine the distributional trends of a model endangered species, the freshwater pearl mussel, Margaritifera margaritifera (L.). Location United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. Methods Using species presence data within 10-km grid squares since records began three-parameter logistic regression curves were fitted to extrapolate an estimated date of regional extinction. Results This study has shown that freshwater pearl mussel distribution has contracted since known historical records and outlier populations were lost first. Within the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland, distribution loss has been greatest in Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and England, respectively, with the Republic of Ireland containing the highest relative proportion of M. margaritifera distribution, in 1998. Main conclusions This study provides empirical evidence that this species could become extinct throughout countries within the United Kingdom within 170 years under the current trends and emphasizes that regionally specific management strategies need to be implemented to prevent extirpation of this species.
3696874|Lizard distribution patterns were examined in relation to elevation in two undulating landscapes. We asked three specific questions: (1) Were different lizard species associated with particular elevations? (2) Did biological attributes of lizards (e.g. body size, colour, reproduction strategy, etc.) vary with elevation? (3) Did species richness of lizards vary with elevation? Field data were collected in two undulating production landscapes in south-eastern Australia, approximately 100 km to the west of the Australian Capital Territory. Lizards were surveyed using 648 pitfall traps and 3840 m of drift fence. Both study landscapes were divided into 50 m elevation classes. For each elevation class, survey effort, the capture rate of individual species, and species richness were recorded. Correspondence analysis was used to sort lizards according to their altitudinal distribution profiles. Analysis of variance was used to examine if biological attributes of lizards were related to their altitudinal distribution profiles. Generalized linear modelling was used to relate elevation to the capture rate of individual species, and to species richness. Lizard species differed in their altitudinal preferences. Skinks, taxa with a Bassian distribution or distribution restricted to the Great Dividing Range, dark-bodied species and viviparous species were more likely to inhabit high elevations. Elevation was significantly related to the capture rate of seven species, and ecologically similar species replaced one another as elevation increased. Species richness peaked significantly at intermediate elevations in both landscapes. We conclude that lizards were highly sensitive to elevation. Elevation changes of as little as 50 m may be related to a change in species richness or species composition. Future research should assess if reptiles in other undulating landscapes with a temperate climate are similarly sensitive to elevation. If so, conservation activities in these landscapes need to consider the full spectrum of topographic positions and elevations.
4539921|Mapping of species distributions at large spatial scales has been often based on the representation of gathered observations in a general grid atlas framework. More recently, subsampling and subsequent interpolation or habitat spatial modelling techniques have been incorporated in these projects to allow more detailed species mapping. Here, we explore the usefulness of data from long-term monitoring (LTM) projects, primarily aimed at estimating trends in species abundance and collected at shorter time intervals (usually yearly) than atlas data, to develop predictive habitat models. We modelled habitat occupancy for 99 species using a bird LTM program and evaluated the predictive accuracy of these models using independent data from a contemporary and comprehensive breeding bird atlas project from the same region. Habitat models from LTM data using generalized linear modelling were significant for all the species and generally showed a high predictive power, albeit lower than that from atlas models. Sample size and species range size and niche breadth were the most important factors behind variability in model predictive accuracy, whereas the spatial distribution of sampling units at a given sample size had minor effects. Although predictive accuracy of habitat modelling was strongly species dependent, increases in sample size and, secondarily, a better spatial distribution of sampling units should lead to more powerful predictive distribution models. We suggest that data from LTM programs, now established in a large number of countries, has the potential for being a major source of good quality data suitable for the estimation and regularly update of distributions at large spatial scales for a number of species.
3246828|The restricted animal communities of the high Arctic islands are due, in part, to extreme geographical isolation. Migration via wind currents is one mechanism by which invasion of new species may occur. Here, we describe immigration of the non-resident migratory moth, Plutella xylostella, into Svalbard during 2000. This was associated with a warm south-easterly air mass that crossed from W. Russia: moths appear to have covered the 800 km to Svalbard in under 48 h, flying at an altitude between 500 and 1500 m. These events thus provide a case study for wind-dispersed movements of invertebrates to high Arctic regions. Climate change scenarios predict increased frequency of such air masses and also of the warm dry weather associated with increased aerial insect transport. The general factors determining successful colonization of the high Arctic by wind-dispersed animals are discussed, using P. xylostella as a model species whose important life history and physiological attributes are well known.
3696848|To assess the validity of previously developed risk assessment schemes in the conditions of Central Europe, we tested (1) Australian weed risk assessment scheme (WRA; Pheloung et al. 1999); (2) WRA with additional analysis by Daehler et al. (2004); and (3) decision tree scheme of Reichard and Hamilton (1997) developed in North America, on a data set of 180 alien woody species commonly planted in the Czech Republic. This list included 17 invasive species, 9 naturalized but non-invasive, 31 casual aliens, and 123 species not reported to escape from cultivation. The WRA model with additional analysis provided best results, rejecting 100% of invasive species, accepting 83.8% of non-invasive, and recommending further 13.0% for additional analysis. Overall accuracy of the WRA model with additional analysis was 85.5%, higher than that of the basic WRA scheme (67.9%) and the Reichard-Hamilton model (61.6%). Only the Reichard-Hamilton scheme accepted some invaders. The probability that an accepted species will become an invader was zero for both WRA models and 3.2% for the Reichard-Hamilton model. The probability that a rejected species would have been an invader was 77.3% for both WRA models and 24.0% for the Reichard-Hamilton model. It is concluded that the WRA model, especially with additional analysis, appears to be a promising template for building a widely applicable system for screening out invasive plant introductions.
3246853|Conservation seeks ultimately to protect and maintain biodiversity indefinitely. Most biodiversity features targeted in past conservation planning have been largely aspects of ecological and biogeographical pattern rather than process. However, the persistence of biodiversity can only be ensured through consideration of the ecological and evolutionary processes that underpin biodiversity, as well as its present spatial pattern. This paper identifies spatial surrogates of ecological and evolutionary processes for regional conservation planning in one of the world's biodiversity hotspots, the Cape Floristic Region. We identified six types of spatial components (namely edaphic interfaces, upland-lowland interfaces, sand movement corridors, riverine corridors, upland-lowland gradients and macroclimatic gradients) as surrogates for key processes such as ecological and geographical diversification, and species migration. Spatial components were identified in a GIS using published data and expert knowledge. Options for achieving targets for process components have been seriously compromised by habitat transformation. Between 30 and 75% of the original extent of the spatial components currently remain functional. Options for achieving upland-lowland and macroclimatic gradients are very limited in the lowlands where most of the habitat has been transformed by agriculture. We recommend that future studies place their research on ecological and evolutionary processes in a spatially explicit framework. Areas maintaining adaptive diversification (e.g. environmental gradients, ecotones) or containing historically isolated populations should be identified and protected. The spatial dimensions of ecological processes such as drought and fire refugia also need to be determined and such insights incorporated in conservation planning. Finally, connectivity within these areas should be ensured to maintain species migration and gene flow.
3246814|Essigella californica is a pine aphid native to western North America. In Australia, E. californica is considered an invasive pest that has the potential to cause severe economic loss to the Australian forestry industry. Two CLIMEX models were developed to predict the Australian and global distribution of E. californica under current climate conditions based upon the aphid's known North American distribution. The first model (model I) was fitted using the reasonably contiguous set of location records in North America that constituted the known range of E. californica, and excluded consideration of a single (reliable) location record of the aphid in southern Florida. The second model (model II) was fitted using all known records in North America. Model I indicated that the aphid would be climatically restricted to the temperate, Mediterranean and subtropical climatic regions of Australia. In northern Australia it would be limited by hot, wet conditions, while in more central areas of Australia it is limited by hot, dry conditions. Model II is more consistent with the current Australian distribution of E. californica. The contrast in geographical range and climatic conditions encompassed between the two models appears to represent the difference between the realized niche (model I) and fundamental niche (model II) of E. californica. The difference may represent the strength of biotic factors such as host limitation, competition and parasitism in limiting geographical spread in the native range. This paper provides a risk map for E. californica colonization in Australia and globally. E. californica is likely to remain a feature of the Australian pine plantations, and any feasibility studies into establishing coniferous plantations in lower rainfall areas should consider the likely impact of E. californica.
41242845|Aim The study was aimed at testing whether West Africa can be regarded as a distinct biogeographic region based on amphibian assemblages. If so, we asked what were the relationships of these assemblages with those in Central Africa, and whether West African amphibian distributions showed biogeographic substructure. We further investigated what events or processes may explain the observed patterns. Location Sub-Saharan Africa. Methods Presence-absence data of amphibian assemblages derived from field surveys and the literature were statistically analysed using three different multivariate techniques (consensus clustering, Monmonier analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling) to emphasize consistent results. Results We showed that West Africa has unique amphibian assemblages, which could be clearly demarcated from Central African assemblages, particularly by the geographic barrier of the Cross River. Further biogeographic subdivisions were detected to the west of this barrier. Habitat, mainly forest, was the best factor explaining our observed pattern. Overall, intra-regional similarity (e.g. within West Africa) was higher than intra-habitat similarity (e.g. within forest) across regions. Main conclusions Our results are compared with previous works and interpreted in the light of the known evolutionary history of West and Central Africa. The observed pattern may be explained by postulated differences in river continuity through time, with West African rivers serving as more or less constant barriers in contrast to those in Central Africa. Our results demonstrate the uniqueness of West African amphibian assemblages, highlighting the need for their conservation as many are under acute anthropogenic pressure.
20171986|There is a growing interest in understanding the influence of plant traits on their ability to spread in non-native regions. Many studies addressing this issue have been based on relatively small areas or restricted taxonomic groups. Here, we analyse a large data base involving 1567 plant species introduced between Eastern Asia and North America or from elsewhere to both regions. We related the extent of species distributions in each region to growth form and the distinction between upland and wetland habitats. We identified significant relationships between geographical distribution and plant traits in both native and exotic ranges as well as regional differences in the relationships. Range size was larger for herbaceous graminoids and forbs, especially annuals compared to perennials, than for woody species, and range size also was larger for plants of wetland compared to upland habitats. Distributions were more extensive in North America than in Eastern Asia, although native plants from both regions had broader distributions than non-natives, with exotics from elsewhere intermediate. Growth form and environment explained more of the variance in distribution of plants in North America than in Eastern Asia. The influence of growth form and habitat on distribution suggests that these traits might be related to tolerance of ecological conditions. In addition, the smaller extents of species in non-native compared to native areas suggest roles for dispersal limitation and adaptation to region-specific ecological conditions in determining distribution.
41058148|Aim The Chilean long-tailed snake (Philodryas chamissonis) has a wide distribution across different latitudes and ecosystems in Chile ranging from the south of the Atacama Desert (26 S) to the extremely humid Valdivian temperate rain forest (40 S). Throughout this vast distribution, which is isolated by the Andes mountain range on the east and the Pacific Ocean on the west, there are biogeographical boundaries and large geographical barriers that must have played an important role in the distribution of genetic diversity within this species. This study aimed at elucidating the evolutionary history of P. chamissonis in Chile by analysis of mitochondrial DNA sequences. Location Chile (29 41'-38 23' S). Methods We extracted DNA from 66 tissue samples collected across different latitudes and amplified and sequenced the mitochondrial DNA control region and the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 4 gene for phylogenetic and population analysis. Results Four distinct haplogroups were identified for P. chamissonis. These are highly consistent with a latitudinal geographic pattern, different ecosystems and the increase in topography towards central Chile. Three of the four haplogroups are concentrated in central Chile (33 S latitude) where the highest herpetofaunal diversity of the country is found. The Maipo River acts as historical geographical barrier for the species influenced by Pleistocene glaciation cycles, leading to a marked phylogeographical boundary. A strong population structure was found for the species ( st = 0.78, P < 0.0001), with a high haplotype diversity (h = 0.97  0.01) and nucleotide diversity ( = 0.0151  0.0077). Main conclusions At least three evolutionarily significant units (ESUs) were designated for the species, and these should be taken into account for conservation plans. Three of the four haplogroups found within P. chamissonis are already threatened because their distribution along central Chile overlaps with most of the largest cities in the country.
41242799|Aim We present an integrated approach for predicting future range expansion of an invasive species (Chinese tallow tree) that incorporates statistical forecasting and analytical techniques within a spatially explicit, agent-based, simulation framework. Location East Texas and Louisiana, USA. Methods We drew upon extensive field data from the US Forest Service and the US Geological Survey to calculate spread rate from 2003 to 2008 and to parameterize logistic regression models estimating habitat quality for Chinese tallow within individual habitat cells. We applied the regression analyses to represent population spread rate as a function of habitat quality, integrated this function into a logistic model representing local spread, and coupled this model with a dispersal model based on a lognormal kernel within the simulation framework. We simulated invasions beginning in 2003 based on several different dispersal velocities and compared the resulting spatial patterns to those observed in 2008 using cross Mantel's tests. We then used the best dispersal velocity to predict range expansion to the year 2023. Results Chinese tallow invasion is more likely in low and flat areas adjacent to water bodies and roads, and less likely in mature forest stands and in pine plantations where artificial regeneration by planting seedlings is used. Forecasted invasions resulted in a distribution that extended from the Gulf Coast of Texas and Louisiana northward and westward as much as 300 km, representing approximately 1.58 million ha. Main conclusions Our new approach of calculating time series projections of annual range expansion should assist land managers and restoration practitioners plan proactive management strategies and treatments. Also, as field sampling continues on the national array of FIA plots, these new data can be incorporated easily into the present model, as well as being used to develop and/or improve models of other invasive plant species.
20171979|Modelling the distribution of invasive alien species is widely used for predicting future dispersal, response to climate change, and effects of management, but little information is available on the scale dependence of spatial models. This study is focused on Heracleum mantegazzianum, a problematic invasive plant in central and north-western Europe. The main objective was to model the current distribution of this species at national (43,000 km) and regional scale (4900 km) using autologistic regression with a Danish data set. Presence-absence data were used in a grid system with 5  5 km or 2  2 km as basic units. To avoid misleading presence-absence models and unreliable probability values due to unbalanced data, the prevalence was used as cut-off value, and a favourability function was applied to the model predictions. The national model showed a widespread distribution of H. mantegazzianum with highest habitat suitability in the eastern and northern parts of the country where human population density is high, winters more severe and/or loamy soils more common. At a regional scale the distribution of H. mantegazzianum is associated with alluvial sand cover, high human population density, spring precipitation, and presence of the species in neighbour grid units. The observed widespread national distribution is likely the result of anthropogenic spread of this ornamental plant, while the locally clumped distribution suggests that H. mantegazzianum naturally spreads mainly over short distances. The current distribution in Denmark resembles an intermediate invasion stage where long-distance dispersal is less important, while spread from suitable neighbour habitats is significant. The study demonstrates that the favourability function leads to improved mapping standards for invasive species.
40390717|Aim Biodiversity is declining at accelerating rates. Understanding past and ongoing changes to biodiversity is paramount in prioritizing conservation action and restoring functional ecosystems. Yet long-term, systematic data on the distribution and abundance of species are sparse. For many organisms, specimen collections and anecdotal accounts of chance sightings or captures constitute the only source of information. Such data have the potential to provide valuable insights on long-term ecosystem changes, but are often neglected because they are difficult to analyse quantitatively. Here we review available methods and introduce a new approach. Location Historic data on sightings and captures of great white sharks in the eastern Adriatic and off eastern Canada serve to illustrate the utility of both the existing methods and the new approach. Method Unlike existing methods, the new approach focuses on estimating population trends rather than verifying extinction and explicitly addresses uncertainty over observation effort via two tiers of sensitivity analysis. It fits a series of generalized linear models that provide multiple estimates of declines under alternate scenarios regarding the appropriate reference period and observer trends. Programming code to implement the approach in freely available software is provided as supplementary material. Results Example analyses of great white shark sightings suggest that local populations of this species have suffered dramatic declines, both in the eastern , Adriatic and along Canada's eastern coast. Although not yet extinct, this top predator may therefore no longer be able to fulfil its former ecological role. Main conclusions Careful quantitative analyses of imperfect historical data can provide valuable insights into past ecological changes. Such insights are crucial to improved management and restoration of individual species and their ecosystems. We therefore hope that our review of available methods will facilitate quantitative evaluations of species for which analysis was previously impeded by a lack of systematically collected data.
20532068|Aim: Biological invasions are a major component of global change with increasing effects on natural ecosystems and human societies. Here, we aim to assess the relationship between plant invader species attributes and the extent of their distribution range size, at the same time that we assess the association between environmental factors and plant invader species richness. Location: Spain, Mediterranean region. Methods: From the species perspective, we calculated the distribution range size of the 106 vascular plant invaders listed in a recently published atlas of alien plant species in Spain. Range size was used as an estimation of the degree of invasion success of the species. To model variation in range size between species as a function of a set of species attributes, we adopted the framework of the generalized linear mixed models because they allow the incorporation of taxonomic categories as nested random factors to control for phylogenetic relationships. From the invaded site perspective, we determined invader plant species richness as the number of species for each 10  10 km Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) grid. For each grid cell, we estimated variables concerning landscape, topography, climate and human settlement. Then, we performed a generalized linear mixed model incorporating a defined spatial correlation structure to assess the relationship between plant invader richness and the environmental predictors. Results: From the species perspective, wind dispersal and minimum residence time appeared to favour invasion success. From the invaded site perspective, we identified high anthropogenic disturbance, low altitude, short distance to the coastline and dry, hot weather as the main correlates to UTM grid cell invader richness. Main conclusions: According to these results, an increasing importance of man-modified ecosystems and global warming in the Mediterranean region should facilitate the expansion of plant invaders, especially wind-dispersed species, leading to the accumulation of invasive species in some sites (i.e. invasion hot spots).
20532064|Aim: To analyse the ecological patterns of distribution of the avifaunas of the Neotropical humid montane forests, by assessing the degree of habitat restriction among species through the calculation of a numerical index, analysing their relationships with adjacent habitat, and exploring the relative contribution of both higher and lower habitats in shaping the avian assemblages. Location: The Neotropical humid montane forests, from Mexico to north-western Argentina. Methods: The degree of species' restriction to the habitat was calculated through a restriction index based on published endemicity indexes. The index scores range from 0 to 1: a score of 1 indicates a totally endemic species (i.e. fully restricted to the habitat); values tending to 0 indicate a widespread species. Results: In Mesoamerica, completely restricted species represent a lower proportion of the total avifauna than in South American humid montane forests; whereas species shared to other habitats showed a higher proportion of the avifauna with affinities to higher altitude forests (e.g. pine and pine-oak forests). South America, on the other hand, holds assemblages with a high proportion of completely restricted species; species shared to other habitats showed a high proportion of taxa with affinities to lowland forests. Main conclusions: The ecological distribution of the HMF's avifauna could be partitioned in three main components: the ecologically restricted avifauna, the high altitude species and, the lower altitude species, which are tightly associated to the floristic composition along the gradient. The history of formation of the HMF flora and the ecological distribution of different avian taxa suggest a common history. Finally, the restriction index allowed a detailed evaluation of the composition of avian assemblages, their degree of restriction to the habitat and of the affinities regarding adjacent habitats, as well as an accurate distinction between species richness and restricted species richness, which should be a fundamental step towards the establishment of conservation priorities.
41058141|Aim Biodiversity inventories are not yet complete, with potentially thousands of species unknown to science. This paper aims to (1) elucidate the historical discovery rate of endemic southern African marine fishes and (2) to estimate the number of potentially undescribed endemic marine fishes in the region using a statistical model and which factors (e.g. size/depth) contribute to unknown diversity. Thirdly, all species described globally for eight families (Blennidae, Clinidae, Gobiidae, Lutjanidae, Rajidae, Sciaenidae, Scyliorhinidae, Sparidae) were analysed to elucidate unknown diversity in these groups. Location The oceans of southern Africa, including Namibia, South Africa and Mozambique, encompassing sections of the south-eastern Atlantic Ocean and the western Indian Ocean. Methods Literature surveys from a number of sources were carried out to compile lists of species descriptions from 1758 onwards. Species-accumulation curves were plotted for all endemic species, as well as for different components of size and depth. A maximum likelihood model was used to estimate the number of undescribed endemic marine fishes in southern Africa, as well as for all other categories, including global families. Results Fish discovery rates in southern Africa have varied with time. Estimates suggest that at least 25% of the total endemic fish fauna remain unknown and that size is the greatest predictor of whether a fish has been described. Smaller-sized fishes and those inhabiting shallow areas are most likely to be undersampled. It is likely that most undescribed fishes inhabit the subtropical/tropical waters of the east coast. Main conclusions At the current rate of fish description, it will take at least 50 years to describe the total endemic fish fauna. However, estimates of unknown species are probably higher because of cryptic species within currently recognized taxa. Climate change may also contribute to range expansions of marine species, further complicating the status of endemicity in southern African marine fishes.
20172057|Aim: Most of the Atlantic Forest in Brazil occurs in fragments of various sizes. Previous studies indicate that forest fragmentation affects fruit-feeding butterflies. Conservation strategies that seek to preserve organisms that are distributed in high-fragmented biomes need to understand the spatial distribution of these organisms across the landscape. In view of the importance of understanding the fauna of these forest remnants, the objective of the present work is to investigate the extent to which the diversity of this group varies across spatial scales ranging from within-forest patches to between landscapes. Location: South America, south-eastern Brazil, So Paulo State. Methods: We used bait traps to sample fruit feeding butterflies at 50 points in 10 fragments in two different landscapes during a period of 12 months. Total species richness and Shannon index were partitioned additively in diversity at trap level, and beta diversity was calculated among traps, among forest patches, and between landscapes. We used permutation tests to compare these values to the expected ones under the null hypothesis that beta diversity is only a random sampling effect. Results: There was significant beta diversity at the smallest scale examined; however, the significance at higher scales depends on the diversity measurement used. Beta diversity with Shannon index was smaller than expected by chance among fragments, whereas species richness was not. Among landscapes, only beta diversity in richness was higher than expected by chance. Main conclusions: The results observed occur because there is great variability in species composition among forest patches in the same landscape, changing this diversity even though the communities are formed from the same pool of species. At the largest scale evaluated (between landscapes), these pattern changes and differences in beta diversity in richness were detectable. This difference is probably caused by the presence of rare species. Thus, a conservation strategy that seeks to preserve as many species as possible per unit of area in high-fragmented biomes should give priority to protecting fragments in different landscapes, rather than more fragments in the same landscape.
41058173|Aims Developing plant conservation strategies requires knowledge of ecological and genetic processes underlying population dynamics. We aimed to quantify morphological and genetic differentiation among remnant populations of the iconic coco-de-mer palm Lodoicea maldivica. We hypothesized that limited gene flow among widely spaced populations would result in high genetic variation and large phenotypic differences among populations. Location Islands of Praslin and Curieuse (CU), Seychelles, Indian Ocean. Methods We conducted an extensive population survey and recorded morphological parameters for 447 Lodoicea in the main populations at Valle de Mai (VM) and Fond Ferdinand (FF) on Praslin, and on CU. We collected leaf material from 180 trees in these populations for DNA genotyping using amplified fragment length polymorphisms. Results A total of 16,766 Lodoicea trees were recorded in the three populations (72.6% of Lodoicea on both islands). Lodoicea trees at VM and FF showed similar morphology, but differed in most parameters from those at CU, which were shorter, grew more slowly and produced fewer seeds. Mean overall genetic diversity was 0.337, and percentage of polymorphic loci was 91.1. Genetic diversity of the CU population was lower than that at VM and FF. There was weak genetic differentiation between CU and Praslin populations, but 99% of all genetic diversity was within populations. Main conclusions Trees on CU differed in growth and morphology from those of the two Praslin populations. These phenotypic differences, however, were not mirrored in the genetic structure of the populations. All populations were relatively genetically diverse with remarkably little differentiation among populations. This suggests that the capacity of Lodoicea to dominate across a range of habitats may be because of high phenotypic plasticity. High genetic connectivity may be maintained through long-distance wind pollination. Given the uncertainty about the extent of underlying adaptive variation, we recommend that restoration projects avoid transferring seeds between island populations.
4539988|Global biodiversity is decreasing as a result of human activities. In many parts of the world, this decrease is due to the destruction of natural habitats. The European perspective is different. Here, traditional agricultural landscapes developed into species-rich habitats. However, the European biodiversity heritage is strongly endangered. One of the countries where this biodiversity is best preserved is Romania. We analyse the possible changes in Romania's land-use patterns and their possible benefits and hazards with respect to biodiversity. As model group, we used butterflies, whose habitat requirements are well understood. We determined the ecological importance of different land-use types for the conservation of butterflies, underlining the special importance of Romania's semi-natural grasslands for nature conservation. We found that increasing modern agriculture and abandonment of less productive sites both affect biodiversity negatively - the former immediately and the latter after a lag phase of several years. These perspectives are discussed in the light of the integration of Romania into the European Union.
3246841|An analysis of dispersal directions of the barn owl showed that all individuals immigrating to Hungary came from W-NW-N. It was shown that immigrating owls breed in Hungary. There is no prevailing direction in emigration from Hungary. The time of fledging does not influence the direction of movement and there is no difference between sexes concerning dispersal direction. The percentages of emigrating owls is greater than that of immigrating ones. These percentages did not differ in relation to most of the analysed countries (Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Poland and countries of the former Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia) but it differed in relation to Austria. The degree and direction of introgression into and from the transition zone and the recent distribution of the phenotypes are discussed based on the comparative analysis of published European data. These suggest that the subspecies Tyto alba alba and Tyto alba guttata disappear by introgression, to form a phenotypically very variable species.
40390709|Aim Understanding how heterogeneous landscapes shape genetic structure not only sheds light on processes involved in population divergence and speciation, but can also guide management strategies to promote and maintain genetic connectivity of populations of endangered species. This study aimed to (1) identify barriers and corridors for gene flow among populations of the endangered frog, Atelopus varius and (2) assess the relative contributions of alternative landscape factors to patterns of genetic variation among these populations in a hypothesis testing framework. Location This study took place in western Panama and included all nine of the remaining known populations of A. varius at the time of study. Methods The influence of landscape variables on gene flow among populations was examined by testing for correlations between alternative landscape-resistance scenarios and genetic distance. Fifteen alternative hypotheses about the influence of (1) riparian habitat corridors, (2) steep slopes, and (3) climatic suitability on patterns of genetic structure were tested in a causal modelling framework, using Mantel and partial-Mantel tests, along with an analysis of molecular variation. Results Only the hypothesis attributing resistance to dispersal across steep slopes (genetic isolation by slope distance) was fully supported by the causal modelling approach. However, the analysis of molecular variance and the paths of least-slope among populations suggest that riparian habitat connectivity may influence genetic structure as well. Main conclusions These results suggest that patterns of genetic variation among A. varius populations are affected by the slope of the landscape such that areas with steep slopes act as barriers to gene flow. In contrast, areas of low slope, such as streams and mountain ridges, appear to be important corridors for gene flow, especially among high elevation populations. These results engender important considerations for the management of this critically endangered species.
3246837|The structure of pollination networks is described for two oceanic islands, the Azorean Flores and the Mauritian Ile aux Aigrettes. At each island site, all interactions between endemic, non-endemic native and introduced plants and pollinators were mapped. Linkage level, i.e. number of species interactions per species, was significantly higher for endemic species than for non-endemic native and introduced species. Linkage levels of the two latter categories were similar. Nine types of interaction may be recognized among endemic, non-endemic native and introduced plants and pollinators. Similar types had similar frequencies in the two networks. Specifically, we looked for the presence of 'invader complexes' of mutualists, defined as groups of introduced species interacting more with each other than expected by chance and thus facilitating each other's establishment. On both islands, observed frequencies of interactions between native (endemic and non-endemic) and introduced pollinators and plants differed from random. Introduced pollinators and plants interacted less than expected by chance. Thus, the data did not support the existence of invader complexes. Instead, our study suggested that endemic super-generalist species, i.e. pollinators or plant species with a very wide pollination niche, include new invaders in their set of food plants or pollinators and thereby improve establishment success of the invaders. Reviewing other studies, super generalists seem to be a widespread island phenomenon, i.e. island pollination networks include one or a few species with a very high generalization level compared to co-occurring species. Low density of island species may lead to low interspecific competition, high abundance and ultimately wide niches and super generalization.
3696836|This study analyses the effect of resource availability (i.e. sheep dung) on dung beetle communities in an arid region of Central Spain, both at regional and at local scales. A total of 18 sites within
41242853|Aim Recreational boating is arguably the largest unregulated vector for the introduction and spread of marine invasive species. Hull fouling communities have been recognized to harbour non-indigenous species (NIS), but presence should not be equated with transport. In this study, we characterize the presence of NIS in hull fouling communities, determine if host vessels transport these species and evaluate the importance of recreational boating as a vector for introduction and spread. Location Coastal British Columbia (BC), Canada. Methods Dive surveys in BC marinas were conducted to record the presence of NIS and to estimate their per cent cover. In addition, a boater questionnaire survey was used to determine common travel and maintenance practices. These results were combined to investigate the potential for recreational boats to transport NIS. Results Nine NIS, including the highly invasive ascidians Styela clava and Botrylloides violaceus y and the macroalga Sargassum muticum y were found in hull fouling communities on recreational boats. Overall, per cent cover was generally low; however, niche areas were commonly fouled, even on active and otherwise clean boats. Fouling of niche areas was not related to either antifouling paint age or travel frequency, and fouling levels were highly variable among individual boats both within marinas and across regions. Main conclusions Recreational boating is a major vector contributing to the spread of marine invasive species. Our results indicate that recreational boats represent a high-risk vector both for primary introduction and secondary spread of marine NIS and should be subject to vector management regulations.
4539956|The newt species Triturus marmoratus and Triturus pygmaeus are both present in central Portugal where they have parapatric distributions. We used four genetic markers to determine which species was present in 31 populations. In the centre of the study area we found a T. marmoratus enclave. Despite small interpopulation distances, hybridization is locally rare. We built several models to try to explain this distribution using environmental data. The best model, chosen by Akaike's Information Criterion, relates the presence of T. marmoratus with the temperature in July, the relief of the landscape, and a higher use of the land for orchards. The current distribution can best be explained by T. pygmaeus expanding north and replacing T. marmoratus, the latter only persisting where ecological conditions are relatively favourable.
41242847|Aim Biological invasions pose a major conservation threat and are occurring at an unprecedented rate. Sisproportionate levels of invasion across the landscape indicate that propagule pressure and ecosystem characteristics can mediate invasion success. However, most invasion predictions relate to species' characteristics (invasiveness) and habitat requirements. Given myriad invaders and the inability to generalize from single-species studies, more general predictions about invasion are required. We present a simple new method for characterizing and predicting landscape susceptibility to invasion that is not species-specific. Location Corangamite catchment (13,340 km), south-east Australia. Methods Using spatially referenced data on the locations of non-native plant species, we modelled their expected proportional cover as a function of a site's environmental conditions and geographic location. Models were built as boosted regression trees (BRTs). Results On average, the BRTs explained 38% of variation in occupancy and abundance of all exotic species and exotic forbs. Variables indicating propagule pressure, human impacts, abiotic and community characteristics were rated as the top four most influential variables in each model. Presumably reflecting higher propagule pressure and resource availability, invasion was highest near edges of vegetation fragments and areas of human activity. Sites with high vegetation cover had higher probability of occupancy but lower proportional cover of invaders, the latter trend suggesting a form of biotic resistance. Invasion patterns varied little in time despite the data spanning 34 years. Main conclusions To our knowledge, this is the first multispecies model based on occupancy and abundance data used to predict invasion risk at the landscape scale. Our approach is flexible and can be applied in different biomes, at multiple scales and for different taxonomic groups. Quantifying general patterns and processes of plant invasion will increase understanding of invasion and community ecology. Predicting invasion risk enables spatial prioritization of weed surveillance and control.
41058149|Aim In this study, we (1) determine whether simple species distribution models based on regional data provide incomplete descriptions of potential distributions; (2) investigate whether underrepresented areas where potential distributions are estimated using only regional data are spatially and environmentally structured; and (3) examine why regional data may not adequately describe potential distributions. Location Iberian Peninsula. Methods We used a multidimensional envelope procedure to estimate the potential distributional areas of 73 species of Iberian diving beetles (Dytiscidae) using two data sets (Iberian data and data from the entire range). We used a Mann-Whitney U-test to compare the features (climate, number of database records and proportion of human-transformed land uses) of these underrepresented areas with those of the remaining Iberian territory. Results By comparing species-richness estimates obtained by overlaying predicted species distributions modelled using either global or regional data, we found that some areas of species' potential distributions are underrepresented when only regional data are used. Incomplete estimates of potential distributions when using only Iberian data may be partly attributable to limited survey efforts combined with unique local climates, but none of the considered factors by itself seems to fully explain this underrepresentation. Main conclusions Our results show that species data from regional inventories may provide an incomplete description of the environmental limits of most species, resulting in a biased description of species' niches. The results of distribution models based on partial information about the environmental niche of a species may be inaccurate. To minimize this error, we highlight the importance of considering all known populations of a given species or at least a sample of populations distributed across the whole range, to include environmental extremes of the distribution. We highlight some methodological and conceptual concerns that should be considered when attempting to infer potential distributions from occurrence data.
4539948|The threat imposed by invasive species and difficulties associated with control and management places more impetus on trying to prevent their introduction. The identification of introduction pathways is a vital component towards this goal. In this study, we use a genetic marker-based approach to retrospectively investigate the pathway of origin of the invasive Argentine ant (Linepithema humile) into New Zealand. We intensively sample the mitochondrial gene cytochrome b, from the entire known range of Argentine ants in New Zealand. No genetic variation was found in New Zealand. In order to identify likely introduction pathways, we use two alternative genetic analyses and suggest that a TCS approach that collapses identical haplotypes and calculates the probability of parsimony is superior to standard phylogenetic tree-building algorithms. A minimum spanning network allowed relationships to be examined among sequences collated from previous international studies. The cytochrome b sequence, when compared to a global database, matched that from an Australian population. That Australia is the potential source of Argentine ants is in agreement with the New Zealand interception record, as goods from Australia have the highest number of interception records of Argentine ants. Our approach can easily be duplicated for other organisms and the methodology can be more widely applied to help aid further efforts to identify the routes of transmission for other invasive species and allow us to efficiently direct our biosecurity monitoring effort.
2673329|Each year new mammalian taxa are described from the Neotropics but, contrary to conventional wisdom, these are not solely rats and bats. Since the publication of the last world checklist in 1992, new species and genera have been described from six orders (Didelphimorphia, Paucituberculata, Insectivora, Chiroptera, Primates and Rodentia) and from all South American countries except Guyana, Bolivia and Paraguay. Names and bibliographic references are listed for seven new genera and 57 new species of Neotropical mammals, representing an average of one new genus and eight new species annually. Each year, systematists revalidate an even greater number of names that were previously thought to constitute taxonomic synonyms. Consequently, estimates of mammalian diversity remain imprecise, especially in the tropics, and the pace of new descriptions outstrips even the most recent checklists.
2673313|Conservation planning has hitherto concentrated largely on the representation of biodiversity patterns within a system of conservation areas. Only recently has there been an emphasis on retaining segments of the optimal conservation area by defining implementation priorities in terms of the irreplaceability of areas and their vulnerability to threatening processes. The conservation of ecological and evolutionary processes that sustain and generate biodiversity, a requirement for a system of conservation areas that promotes biodiversity persistence, has received very little attention. By designing conservation systems in order to represent spatial features as surrogates for ecological and evolutionary processes, and by scheduling the implementation of areas in order to minimise the impacts of threats on these processes, it is theoretically possible to achieve a conservation system that combines retention and persistence. Here we discuss the requirements for establishing a sustainable (retention + persistence) conservation system in southern Africa's Succulent Karoo, a mediterranean-climate desert that is very rich in plant species. Firstly, we discuss planning issues salient to both representation and design, and indicate the location, size and role in conservation of the spatial components (surrogates for processes) necessary for a system of conservation areas in the Succulent Karoo intended for retention + persistence. Next we lay out the requirements for a conservation system in the region and summarise some existing work on representation and retention of plant species. We then present a protocol for decision-making and apply it by designing a hypothetical system of conservation areas. Finally, we compare representation of Red Data Book plant species in a system identified for pattern retention with our similar-sized system designed for retention + persistence. The latter conserves 37% fewer species, indicating that design for persistence incurs a cost in terms of representation. This cost is offset by developing a conservation system that is likely to persist in the face of global change, and that will sustain processes responsible for the maintenance and genesis of biodiversity.
20171982|With the advent of 'ancient DNA' studies on preserved material of extant and extinct species, museums and herbaria now represent an important although still underutilized resource in molecular ecology. The ability to obtain sequence data from archived specimens can reveal the recent history of cryptic species and introductions. We have analysed extant and herbarium samples of the highly invasive green alga Codium fragile, many over 100 years old, to identify cryptic accessions of the invasive strain known as C. fragile ssp. tomentosoides, which can be identified by a unique haplotype. Molecular characterization of specimens previously identified as native in various regions shows that the invasive tomentosoides strain has been colonizing new habitats across the world for longer than records indicate, in some cases nearly 100 years before it was noticed. It can now be found in the ranges of all the other native haplotypes detected, several of which correspond to recognized subspecies. Within regions in the southern hemisphere there was a greater diversity of haplotypes than in the northern hemisphere, probably as a result of dispersal by the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. The findings of this study highlight the importance of herbaria in preserving contemporaneous records of invasions as they occur, especially when invasive taxa are cryptic.
2999817|Inselbergs occur as mostly dome-shaped rock outcrops in all climatic and vegetational zones of the tropics. Consisting of Precambrian granites and gneisses, they form ancient and stable landscape elements. Due to harsh edaphic and microclimatic conditions, the vegetation of inselbergs differs markedly from those of the surroundings. Monocotyledonous mats form one of the most characteristic communities of this ecosystem. The floristic composition of this community was studied on six inselbergs located in the Brazilian Atlantic rainforest. Dominating are Bromeliaceae (Alcantarea, Encholinium), Velloziaceae (Vellozia), Cactaceae (Coleocephalocereus) and the Cyperaceae Trilepis. The alpha diversity of the mats was relatively uniform among the six outcrops. However, beta diversity varied considerably between the different sites. Beta diversity was highest at the most speciose locality indicating a high degree of stochasticity in colonization. In contrast to the low diversity mats on West African inselbergs, the Brazilian rock outcrops bear a floristically more diverse mat community rich in endemics. Thus the edaphically controlled inselberg vegetation reflects the outstanding diversity of the Mata Atlantica. Possibly the high species richness of mats on East Brazilian inselbergs is a consequence of a large species-pool. The processes that regulate regional and local diversity in the Mata Atlantica are not fully clear. It is assumed that historical (i.e. long-term stability) and biotic (i.e. evolutionary interchange of taxa between canopies and rock outcrops followed by differentiation of local populations) conditions have promoted high rates of speciation and their coexistence in isolated habitats. A danger to the unique vegetation of East Brazilian inselbergs is the establishment of invasive weeds.
40390720|Aim The establishment success of exotic species is calculated as the fraction of introduced species that have become established, and invasion success is estimated as the fraction of established species that have spread significantly from their points of introduction. Records on species introductions are highly incomplete, so strong conclusions about the tens rule and invasibility of island and continents cannot be drawn. Location Global. Methods Using Jeschke (2008) as an example, we explain the issue of the inadequacy of data to draw conclusions about the tens rule and invasibility of island and continents. Results Lack of adequate data. Main Conclusion Jeschke (2008) probably overestimates the establishment and invasion success rates, so his conclusions about violation of the tens rule and that islands are not more susceptible to invasion than continents are misleading.
40604245|Aim Climate change poses significant threats to biodiversity, including impacts on species distributions, abundance and ecological interactions. At a landscape scale, these impacts, and biotic responses such as adaptation and migration, will be mediated by spatial heterogeneity in climate and climate change. We examine several aspects of the geography of climate change and their significance for biodiversity conservation. Location California and Nevada, USA. Methods Using current climate surfaces (PRISM) and two scenarios of future climate (Alb, 2070-2099, warmer-drier and warmer-wetter), we mapped disappearing, declining, expanding and novel climates, and the velocity and direction of climate change in California and Nevada. We also examined finescale spatial heterogeneity in protected areas of the San Francisco Bay Area in relation to reserve size, topographic complexity and distance from the ocean. Results Under the two climate change scenarios, current climates across most of California and Nevada will shrink greatly in extent, and the climates of the highest peaks will disappear from this region. Expanding and novel climates are projected for the Central Valley. Current temperature isoclines are projected to move up to 4.9 km year in flatter regions, but substantially slower in mountainous areas because of steep local topoclimate gradients. In the San Francisco Bay Area, climate diversity within currently protected areas increases with reserve size and proximity to the ocean (the latter because of strong coastal climate gradients). However, by 2100 of almost 500 protected areas (> 100 ha), only eight of the largest are projected to experience temperatures within their currently observed range. Topoclimate variability will further increase the range of conditions experienced and needs to be incorporated in future analyses. Main Conclusions Spatial heterogeneity in climate, from mesoclimate to topoclimate scales, represents an important spatial buffer in response to climate change, and merits increased attention in conservation planning.
3246845| The distribution of plant taxa endemic to the Yucatn Peninsula was studied using Parsimony Analysis of Endemicity (PAE). The known distribution of 162 endemic plant taxa was plotted and the DOMAIN method together with environmental data were used to model the potential distribution for each taxon. The Peninsula was divided into a grid of quarter-degree cells for the purpose of identifying distribution patterns. A total of 294 cells were analysed using known collection records and potential distribution of endemic taxa data. Two data matrices were constructed, a matrix of known distribution and a matrix of both the known and potential distribution. The two matrices were included in the PAE to identify areas of endemism. The areas determined with the known distribution were restricted and almost half of them remained unresolved, whereas with the potential distribution, approximately 90% of the cells were assigned to any one of the endemicity areas. Four endemism areas were identified: the Yucatn dry zone, Yucatn, El Peten and Belize. The areas of Yucatn and El Petn could be explained by current and Pleistocene climatic conditions and their congruence with other biological groups. Analysis of the potential distribution identified areas with patterns that share current environmental characteristics and a palaeoclimate history. Potential distribution modelling can eliminate uncertainties in biogeographical analysis caused by lack of data distribution and sample variation and produce information about the relationships between areas and taxa as well as the environmental affinities of taxa. 
3696849| Flushing of ballast tanks with seawater has been proposed to reduce the risk of invasion associated with residual ballast in 'no ballast on board' ships. The efficacy of this procedure, however, has not been determined. Using diapausing eggs isolated from ballast sediments-as well as from Lake Erie sediment-this study investigated the impact of salinity (0, 8 and 35) and temperature (10, 20 and 30 C) on the cumulative abundance and species richness of hatched Zooplankton taxa. The rate and amount of hatching varied dramatically between sediments and across salinity-temperature regimes. Although exposure to saline water inhibited emergence of freshwater taxa during the exposure phase of all trials, mixed results were evident after diapausing eggs were returned to freshwater. The efficacy of salinity as a ballast treatment method was temperature dependent, although the direction of the effect was case-specifie. Exposure of eggs to saline water was less effective at 10 and 30 C than at 20 C. Although flushing ballast tanks with open ocean water is expected to significantly reduce the number of active invertebrates living in residual ballast water (a potentially larger source of invaders), our results indicate that the most effective treatment conditions for reduction of diapausing egg viability is 8 salinity at 20 C. 
41058177|Aim Evidence indicates that species are responding to climate change through distributional range shifts that track suitable climatic conditions. We aim to elucidate the role of meso-scale dispersal barriers in climate-tracking responses. Location South coast of England (the English Channel). Methods Historical distributional data of four intertidal invertebrate species were logistically regressed against sea surface temperature (SST) to determine a climate envelope. This envelope was used to estimate the expected climate-tracking response since 1990 along the coast, which was compared with observed range expansions. A hydrodynamic modelling approach was used to identify dispersal barriers and explore disparities between expected and observed climate tracking. Results Range shifts detected by field survey over the past 20 years were less than those predicted by the changes that have occurred in SST. Hydrodynamic model simulations indicated that physical barriers produced by complex tidal currents have variably restricted dispersal of pelagic larvae amongst the four species. Main conclusions We provide the first evidence that meso-scale hydrodynamic barriers have limited climate-induced range shifts and demonstrate that life history traits affect the ability of species to overcome such barriers. This suggests that current forecasts may be flawed, both by overestimating range shifts and by underestimating climatic tolerances of species. This has implications for our understanding of climate change impacts on global biodiversity.
40800795|Aim We investigated partitioning of aquatic macroinvertebrate diversity in eight headwater streams to determine the relative contributions of  and  diversity to  diversity, and the scale dependence of  and  components. Location Great Dividing Range, Victoria, Australia. Methods We used the method of Jost (Ecology, 2007, 88, 2427-2439) to partition  diversity into its  and  components. We undertook the analyses at both reach and catchment scales to explore whether inferences depended on scale of observation. Results We hypothesized that  diversity would make a large contribution to the  diversity of macroinvertebrates in our dendritic riverine landscape, particularly at the larger spatial scale (among catchments) because of limited dispersal among sites and especially among catchments. However, reaches each had relatively high taxon richness and high  diversity, while  diversity made only a small contribution to  diversity at both the reach and catchment scales. Main conclusions Dendritic riverine landscapes have been thought to generate high  diversity as a consequence of limited dispersal and high heterogeneity among individual streams, but this may not hold for all headwater stream systems. Here,  diversity was high and  diversity low, with individual headwater stream reaches each containing a large portion of  diversity. Thus, each stream could be considered to have low irreplaceability since losing the option to use one of these sites in a representative reserve network does not greatly diminish the options available for completing the reserve network. Where limited information on individual taxonomie distributions is available, or time and money for modelling approaches are limited, diversity partitioning may provide a useful ' first-cut' for obtaining information about the irreplaceability of individual streams or subcatchments when establishing representative freshwater reserves.
20171952|We studied species richness patterns of obligate subterranean (troglobiotic) beetles in the Dinaric karst of the western Balkans, using five grid sizes with cells of 80  80, 40  40, 20  20, 10  10, and 5  5 km. The same two hotspots could be recognized at all scales, although details differed. Differences in sampling intensity were not sufficient to explain these patterns. Correlations between number of species and number of sampled localities increased with increasing cell size. Additional species are expected to be found in the region, as indicated by jackknife 1, jackknife 2, Chao2, bootstrap, and incidence-based coverage (ICE) species richness estimators. All estimates increased with increasing cell size, except Chao2, with the lowest prediction at the intermediate 20  20 km cell size. Jackknife 2 and ICE gave highest estimates and jackknife 1 and bootstrap the lowest. Jackknife 1 and bootstrap estimates changed least with cell size, while the number of single cell species increased. In the highly endemic subterranean fauna with many rare species, bootstrap may be most appropriate to consider. Positive autocorrelation of species numbers was highest at 20  20 km scale, so we used this cell size for further analyses. At this scale we added 137 localities with less positional accuracy to 1572 previously considered, and increased 254 troglobiotic species considered to 276. Previously discovered hotspots and their positions did not change, except for a new species-rich cell which appeared in the south-eastern region. There are two centres of troglobiotic species richness in the Dinaric karst. The one in the north-west exhibited high species richness of Trechinae (Carabidae), while in the south-east, the Leptodirinae (Cholevidae) were much more diverse. These centres of species richness should serve as the starting point for establishing a conservation network of important subterranean areas in Dinaric karst.
4539939|This paper examines the role of fire in mediating the relative abundance of two of the world's major ecologically dominant ant genera, Iridomyrmex and Oecophylla, where they coexist across the tropical savanna landscapes of northern Australia. These taxa have contrasting biogeographical histories, which are predicted to lead to contrasting responses to fire. Iridomyrmex is an autochthonous Australian genus that has radiated primarily in the arid zone; as such, its abundance is predicted to be promoted by frequent fire because this maintains an open habitat. In contrast, Oecophylla is a genus of leaf-nesting ants occurring in the canopies of Old World tropical rainforest, and is a recent arrival to Australia in geological time; the abundance of these ants is predicted to decline under frequent fire. We test these predictions using results from a landscape-scale fire experiment, where three experimental fire regimes (including no fire) were applied to replicated subcatchments over a 5-year period. Using sweep nets, ants were sampled in the grass layer (the habitat layer of greatest overlap between Iridomyrmex and Oecophylla) in eucalypt woodland (canopy cover < 30%) and open eucalypt forest (canopy cover about 50%) habitats. A total of 27 species from 11 genera were collected during the study; eight were common enough for statistical analysis, and the abundances of four of these were significantly affected by fire treatment. As predicted, the abundance of Iridomyrmex was promoted by fire, whereas that of Oecophylla declined. These changes occurred only under late-season (relatively high intensity) fires, and for Oecophylla occurred only in open forest (not woodland) habitat. This fire-mediated relationship between Iridomyrmex and Oecophylla mirrors the much broader, ecosystem-wide dynamic between eucalypt-dominated savanna and rainforest in tropical Australia, with savannas dominated by fire-resistant sclerophyll elements of Australian origin, and rainforest dominated by fire-sensitive mesophyll elements of South-East Asian origin.
4539958|Since 1937, thirteen species of non-indigenous anurans have made their way to Guam. Of these, at least six have established breeding populations. Various pathways led to the introduction of these species to the island. The only anuran intentionally introduced was Chaunus marinus (formerly Bufo marinus), which was brought to Guam as a biocontrol agent. Kaloula picta, K. pulchra, Polypedates leucomystax, and probably Litoria fallax arrived as stowaways via maritime or air-transport vessels. Eleutherodactylus coqui and Euhyas (formerly Eleutherodactylus) planirostris appear to have entered Guam through the horticultural trade. Specimens of Pseudacris regilla were found among agricultural products and Christmas trees. Five species have been transported to Guam via the aquacultural trade. The importation of tilapia, milk-fish, and white shrimp from China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the Philippines was associated with the introduction to Guam of Fejervarya cancrivora, F. limnocharis sensu lato, Microhyla pulchra, Polypedates megacephalus, and Sylvirana guentheri (formerly Rana guentheri). Presently, no quarantine or containment guidelines have been established for Guam's aquacultural industry.
2673338|Induced by global warming, mountain plant species are migrating upwards. Species inhabiting the nival zone of today are threatened by competitors which move from the alpine zone towards the summits. The manner in which species move depends on their abilities to cope with microtopographical situations. We present a spatially explicit predictive model which draws scenarios of future species distribution patterns at a typical high mountain of the European Alps. The altitudinal temperature gradient is examined. Based on the lapse rate and on definitions of topographical niches of species, a + 1
2673346|In a previous survey of otters (Lutra lutra L. 1758) in Spain, different causes were invoked to explain the frequency of the species in each province. To find common causes of the distribution of the otter in Spain, we recorded a number of spatial, environmental and human variables in each Spanish province. We then performed a stepwise linear multiple regression of the proportion of positive sites of otter in the Spanish provinces separately on each of the three groups of variables. Geographic longitude, January air humidity, soil permeability and highway density were the variables selected. A linear regression of the proportion of otter presence on these variables explained 62.4% of the variance. We then used the selected variables in a partial regression analysis to specify which proportions of the variation are explained exclusively by spatial, environmental and human factors, and which proportions are attributable to interactions between these components. Pure environmental effects accounted for only 5.5% of the variation, while pure spatial and pure human effects explained 18% and 9.7%, respectively. Shared variation among the components totalled 29.2%, of which 10.9% was explained by the interaction between environmental and spatial factors. Human factors explained globally less variance than spatial and environmental ones, but the pure human influence was higher than the pure environmental one. We concluded that most of the variation in the proportion of occurrences of otter in Spanish provinces is spatially structured, and that environmental factors have more influence on otter presence than human ones; however, the human influence on otter distribution is less structured in space, and thus can be more disruptive. This effect of large infrastructures on wild populations must be taken into account when planning large-scale conservation policies.
2999831|The latitudinal ranges of 750 species of shelled molluscs known to occur on the Eastern Atlantic non-insular coast and continental shelf between 30
20532117|Aim: Predicting species distribution is of fundamental importance for ecology and conservation. However, distribution models are usually established for only one region and it is unknown whether they can be transferred to other geographical regions. We studied the distribution of six amphibian species in five regions to address the question of whether the effect of landscape variables varied among regions. We analysed the effect of 10 variables extracted in six concentric buffers (from 100 m to 3 km) describing landscape composition around breeding ponds at different spatial scales. We used data on the occurrence of amphibian species in a total of 655 breeding ponds. We accounted for proximity to neighbouring populations by including a connectivity index to our models. We used logistic regression and information-theoretic model selection to evaluate candidate models for each species. Location: Switzerland. Results: The explained deviance of each species' best models varied between 5% and 32%. Models that included interactions between a region and a landscape variable were always included in the most parsimonious models. For all species, models including region-by-landscape interactions had similar support (Akaike weights) as models that did not include interaction terms. The spatial scale at which landscape variables affected species distribution varied from 100 m to 100 m, which was in agreement with several recent studies suggesting that land use far away from the ponds can affect pond occupancy. Main conclusions: Different species are affected by different landscape variables at different spatial scales and these effects may vary geographically, resulting in a generally low transferability of distribution models across regions. We also found that connectivity seems generally more important than landscape variables. This suggests that metapopulation processes may play a more important role in species distribution than habitat characteristics.
40930609|Aim To determine timing, source and vector for the recent introduction of the European green crab, Carcinus maenas (Linnaeus, 1758), to Newfoundland using multiple lines of evidence. Location Founding populations in Placentia Bay, Newfoundland, Canada and potential source populations in the north-west Atlantic (NWA) and Europe. Methods We analysed mitochondrial and microsatellite genetic data from European and NWA populations sampled during 1999-2002 to determine probable source locations and vectors for the Placentia Bay introduction discovered in 2007. We also analysed Placentia Bay demographic data and shipping records to look for congruent patterns with genetic analyses. Results Demographic data and surveys suggested that C. maenas populations are established and were in Placentia Bay for several years (c. 2002) prior to discovery. Genetic data corroboratively suggested central/western Scotian Shelf populations (e.g., Halifax) as the likely source area for the anthropogenic introduction. These Scotian Shelf populations were within an admixture zone made up of genotypes from both the earlier (early 1800s) and later (late 1900s) introductions of the crab to the NWA from Europe. Placentia Bay also exhibited this mixed ancestry. Probable introduction vectors included vessel traffic and shipping, especially vessels carrying ballast water. Main conclusions Carcinus maenas overcame considerable natural barriers (i.e., coastal and ocean currents) via anthropogenic transport to become established and abundant in Newfoundland. Our study thus demonstrates how non-native populations can be important secondary sources of introduction especially when aided by human transport. Inference of source populations was possible owing to the existence of an admixture zone in central/western Nova Scotia made up of southern and northern genotypes corresponding with the crab's two historical introductions. Coastal vessel traffic was found to be a likely vector for the crab's spread to Newfoundland. Our study demonstrates that there is considerable risk for continued introduction or reintroduction of G maenas throughout the NWA.
2673328|A track analysis based on the distributional patterns of 967 species of vascular plant taxa (gymnosperms, angiosperms and pteridophytes) was performed to assess conservation priorities for cloud forests in the state of Hidalgo, Mexico, ranged in the municipalities of Chapulhuacan, Eloxochitlan, Molocotlan, Pisaflores, Tenango de Doria, Tlahuelompa and Tlanchinol, as well as five floristically equivalent areas in the states of Veracruz (Teocelo and Helechales), Tamaulipas (Gomez Farias), Morelos-Mexico (Ocuilan) and Oaxaca (Huautla de Jimenez). In order to detect generalized tracks we employed a new parsimony method, where clades (considered equivalent to generalized tracks) are defined forbidding homoplasy and acting like a compatibility algorithm. Several generalized tracks were found connecting these areas. Cloud forests of Chapulhuacan were connected according to three different generalized tracks and thus have a higher value, qualifying as a priority area for the conservation of cloud forests in the state of Hidalgo.
4124766|Stockman et al. (2006) found that ecological niche models built using DesktopGARP 'failed miserably' to predict trapdoor spider (genus Promyrmekiaphila) distributions in California. This apparent failure of GARP (Genetic Algorithm for Rule-Set Production) was actually a failure of the authors' methods, that is, attempting to build ecological niche models using single data points. In this paper, we present a re-analysis of their original data using standard methods with the data appropriately partitioned into training/testing subsets. This re-evaluation generated accurate distributional predictions that we contrast with theirs. We address the consequences of model-building using single data points and the need for a foundational understanding of the principles of ecological niche modelling.
41242827|Aim Acacia is the largest genus of plants in Australia with over 1000 species. A subset of these species is invasive in many parts of the world including Africa, the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and the Pacific region. We investigate the phylogenetic relationships of the invasive species in relation to the genus as a whole. This will provide a framework for studying the evolution of traits that make Acacia species such successful invaders and could assist in screening other species for invasive potential. Location Australia and global. Methods We sequenced four plastid and two nuclear DNA regions for 110 Australian Acacia species, including 16 species that have large invasive ranges outside Australia. A Bayesian phylogenetic tree was generated to define the major lineages of Acacia and to determine the phylogenetic placement of the invasive species. Results Invasive Acacia species do not form a monophyletic group but do form small clusters throughout the phylogeny. There are no taxonomic characters that uniquely describe the invasive Acacia species. Main conclusions The legume subfamily Mimosoideae has a high percentage of invasive species and the Australian Acacia species have the highest rate of all the legumes. There is some evidence of phylogenetic clumping of invasive species of Acacia in the limited sampling presented here. This phylogeny provides a framework for further testing of the evolution of traits associated with invasiveness in Acacia.
40604241|Aim Decision-support models have considerable potential for guiding management strategies when problems are complex. The robustness of such decision-making processes is rarely evaluated, and the influence of decision criteria (or factors) in management decisions is seldom considered. We present a framework for a spatially-explicit sensitivity analysis by using a scheme developed to provide objective guidelines, in the form of static priority maps, for managing woody invasive alien plants (IAPs). Location The Cape Floristic Region, South Africa. Methods The model included seven factors related to management history, fire risk, and the age, identity, density and spread of IAPs. Each factor had a weight associated that reflected its relative importance in prioritizing areas for clearing. We changed these factor weights using three approaches of sensitivity analysis and assessed the effect of these changes on the spatial structure of the resulting priority maps in three different management regions. Results Different outcomes arose depending on the importance given to different factors. Priority maps were most sensitive to the fire-related factors, suggesting that fire is both a crucial driver of invasion in fynbos and an overriding determinant of management options. The factor ' area burnt recently' provided crucial information for the effective clearing of IAPs. The sensitivity of the model to changes in other factors was more context specific: levels of sensitivity were highly dependent on different features of the landscape, especially the spatial heterogeneity of particular factors. Main conclusions By clarifying the importance of factors in shaping priority maps, the sensitivity analysis framework enabled us to identify the necessary factors to produce outcomes matching a pre-selected management strategy. This is important for cost-efficient management, as acquisition and curation of data is expensive. This spatially-explicit sensitivity analysis is, thus, recommended to evaluate the robustness and generality of selected management strategies, and validate the assumptions derived from decision-making protocols.
20532121|Aim: Classic island biogeographical theory predicts that reserves have to be large to conserve high biodiversity. Recent literature, however, suggests that habitat heterogeneity can counterbalance the effect of small reserve size. For savanna ungulates, body mass is said to drive habitat selection and facilitate species coexistence, where large species use a higher proportion of the landscape than smaller species, because a wider food quality tolerance allows them to use a higher diversity of habitat types. In this case, high habitat heterogeneity would facilitate diverse assemblages of different-sized ungulates. Digestive physiology should further modify this relationship, because non-ruminants have a wider diet tolerance than ruminants. We tested this hypothesis with an empirical dataset on distribution and habitat preference of different-sized African grazers. Location: Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park, Republic of South Africa. Methods: We recorded herbivore dung and habitat type on 24 line transects varying between 4 and 11 km with a total length of 190 km to determine habitat selection and landscape distribution of six grazer species, three ruminants and three non-ruminants. Results: Larger ruminant grazers were more evenly distributed than smaller ruminants, had a more diverse use of habitats and used more low quality habitat. In contrast, non-ruminant grazers were more evenly distributed than similar-sized ruminants and body mass did not clearly influence diversity of habitat use and use of low quality habitat. Main conclusions: We confirm that body mass influences diversity of habitat use of large herbivores but digestive strategy potentially modifies this relationship. Hence, habitat heterogeneity might facilitate herbivore diversity in savanna ecosystems and high heterogeneity might counterbalance the effects of fragmentation and declining reserve size. Concluding, processes that homogenize the landscape, such as fire (mis)management and artificial waterholes, might be as threatening to biodiversity as landscape fragmentation, especially for smaller ruminant herbivores.
40390739|Aim In terrestrial plant communities, the relationship between native species diversity and exotic success is typically scale-dependent. It is often proposed that within local neighbourhoods, high native diversity limits resources, thereby inhibiting exotic success. However, environmental variation that manifests over space or time can create positive correlations between native diversity and exotic success at larger scales. In marine habitats, there have been few multi-scale surveys of this pattern, so it is unclear how diversity, resource limitation and the environment influence the success of exotic species in these systems. Location Washington, USA. Methods I analysed nested spatial and temporal surveys of fouling communities, which are assemblages of sessile marine invertebrates, to test whether the relationships between native richness, resource availability and exotic cover supported the diversity-stability and diversity-resistance theories, to test whether these relationships changed with spatio-temporal scale, and to explore the temperature preferences of native and exotic fouling species. Results Survey data failed to support diversity-stability theory: space availability actually increased with native richness at the local neighbourhood scale, and neither space availability nor variability decreased with native richness across larger spatiotemporal scales. I did find support for diversity-resistance theory, as richness negatively correlated with exotic cover in local neighbourhoods. Unexpectedly, this negative correlation disappeared at intermediate scales, but emerged again at the regional scale. This scale-dependent pattern could be partially explained by contrasting water temperature preferences of native and exotic species. Main conclusions Within local neighbourhoods, native diversity may inhibit exotic abundance, but the mechanism is unlikely related to resource limitation. At the largest scale, correlations suggest that native richness is higher in cooler environments, whereas exotic richness is higher in warmer environments. This large-scale pattern contrasts with the typical plant community pattern, and has important implications for coastal management in the face of global climate change.
3696877|Infectious disease risk is thought to increase in the tropics, but little is known about latitudinal gradients of parasite diversity. We used a comparative data set encompassing 330 parasite species reported from 119 primate hosts to examine latitudinal gradients in the diversity of micro and macroparasites per primate host species. Analyses conducted with and without controlling for host phylogeny showed that parasite species richness increased closer to the equator for protozoan parasites, but not for viruses or helminths. Relative to other major parasite groups, protozoa reported from wild primates were transmitted disproportionately by arthropod vectors. Within the protozoa, our results revealed that vector-borne parasites showed a highly significant latitudinal gradient in species richness. This higher diversity of vector-borne protozoa near the tropics could be influenced by a greater abundance or diversity of biting arthropods in the tropics, or by climatic effects on vector behaviour and parasite development. Many vector-borne diseases, such as leishmaniasis, trypanosomiasis, and malaria pose risks to both humans and wildlife, and nearly one-third of the protozoan parasites from free-living primates in our data set have been reported to infect humans. Because the geographical distribution and prevalence of many vector-borne parasites are expected to increase because of global warming, these results are important for predicting future parasite-mediated threats to biodiversity and human health.
41058181|Aim Predictions of spread of non-indigenous species allow for greater efficiency in managing invasions by targeting areas for preventative measures. The invasion sequence is a useful concept in predictions of spread, as it allows us to test hypotheses about the transport and establishment of propagules in novel habitats. Our aims are twofold: (1) to develop and validate multi-stage invasion models for the introduced fishhook waterflea, Cercopagis pengoi, and (2) to assess how variability in the transport patterns of the propagules influences the accuracy and spatial extent for predictions of spread. Location New York State, USA. Methods We developed a two-stage model for the spread of C. pengoi. First, we developed a stochastic gravity model for dispersal based on surveys of recreational boat traffic in New York State as a proxy for propagule pressure. We then modelled the probability of establishment based on predicted levels of propagule pressure and measures of lakes' physicochemistry. In addition, we used Monte Carlo simulations based on the gravity model to propagate variability in boater traffic through the establishment model to assess how uncertainty in dispersal influenced predictions of spread. Results The amount recreationalists were willing to spend, lake area and population size of the city nearest to the destination lake were significant factors affecting boater traffic. In turn, boater traffic, lake area, specific conductance and turbidity were significant predictors of establishment. The inclusion of stochastic dispersal reduced the rate of false positives (i.e. incorrect prediction of an invasion) in detecting invasions at the upper 95% prediction interval for the probability of establishment. Main conclusions Combinations of measures of propagule pressure, habitat suitability and stochastic dispersal allow for the most accurate predictions of spread. Further, multi-stage spread models may overestimate the extent of spread if stochasticity in early stages of the models is not considered.
40604235|Aim We assess whether and how datasets collected by the general public, so-called citizen science programmes, can improve biogeographical studies and contribute to large-scale conservation target-setting. Location Worldwide. Methods We first set a general framework highlighting the prerequisites of a relevant dataset for conservation biogeography. We then illustrate how many different citizen science programmes currently running in different countries can be placed within this framework. Results We highlight that citizen science is particularly useful to address issues spanning large temporal and spatial extents. We then show how datasets based on citizen science can be used to investigate major aspects of global change impacts on biodiversity. We further highlight why these programmes are also particularly valuable in developing the preventative and educational component of conservation biogeography. Main conclusions Conservation biogeography requires considerable amounts of data collected over large spatial and/or temporal extents. Beyond increasing technical advances to collect and analyse these data, citizen science seems to be a highly valuable tool in many aspects. However, while citizen science programmes are now popular and increasingly used in several countries, they are lacking in many others. We argue that the development of citizen science programmes should be encouraged as they can both be highly valuable for conservation biogeography and promote the reconnection between people and nature and more generally between people and science.
41058174|Aim Biological invasions pose one of the most severe threats to global biodiversity. Still, invasions can create positive ecological relationships and services, which can sometimes result in challenges for conservation efforts. A case in point is the invasion of alien plants that form mutualisms with native frugivorous birds. Here, we examined the correlation between honeysuckles (Lonicera spp.) and the bird communities in a landscape of central Pennsylvania during the fall months. Location State College area in central Pennsylvania, USA. Methods We conducted point counts to quantify the abundance of birds and fleshy-fruited plant species within a 187.5 km landscape that included forested, urban and agricultural lands. We also compared fruit-removal rates for a native fruiting plant under low and high Lonicera densities. Results The abundance of birds showed a strong positive association with Lonicera fruits, with the abundance of Turdus migratorius and Dumetella carolinensis showing the strongest correlations. We also found that fruitremoval rates were 30% larger for a native plant species in areas of high Lonicera density compared to a site with low density of Lonicera. Main conclusions Our results suggest that Lonicera may currently serve as a main axis for the organization of bird communities and the networks of frugivore-plant interactions in central Pennsylvania. Since populations of key bird frugivores may be currently depending on Lonicera resources, we argue that control measures should account for the negative effects that the loss of this fruit resource could have on populations of native consumers in highly invaded regions.
20172016|Altitudinal gradients are expected to heavily influence the general performance of mountain tree species. For this study we evaluated vitality, radial growth and reproductive efficiency in Polylepis australis (Rosaceae) throughout its complete altitudinal range in central Argentina. We selected seven forest fragments ranging from 900 to 2700 m a.s.l. In the field, we subjectively assigned vitality and seed productivity indexes to 12 P. australis trees per fragment. In addition, we cored and assessed for radial growth 10-18 trees per altitudinal level. In the laboratory, we individually weighed seeds from four or five trees from each altitudinal level and divided into two seed mass classes (light and heavy). We then tested for germination and monitored their seedlings for survival. Seedlings of three trees per altitudinal level were harvested after 40 days and assessed for dry mass. Seedlings of one to two trees per altitudinal level were monitored for survival until both leaves and roots had died. Our main results showed two types of responses to altitude: a unimodal relationship with an optimum at intermediate altitudes of around 1800 m a.s.l. for tree vitality, radial growth, seed productivity and seed mass; and an increase with altitude for in-vitro seed germination and seedling survival. A rise in temperature due to climate change could restrict P. australis to the upper most altitudes, where conservation of these forests will be a priority.
20171959| De Silva et al. (2007) present an overview of the distribution and conservation status of the endemic freshwater fish of Asia. Within that review they use data from the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species (2006) to conduct an analysis of the conservation status of those endemic fish species. Their analysis is incorrect and provides a very misleading impression of the level of threat to Asian freshwater fish and to freshwater fish at the global scale. The errors stem from a misinterpretation of the data presented on the IUCN Red List. The sources of errors are discussed below and the opportunity is taken to clarify what the information on the IUCN Red List represents. 
40390708|Aim Levels of genetic diversity can be used to determine haplotype frequency, population size and patterns of invasive species distribution. In this study, we sought to investigate the genetic structure of the invasive marine mussel Mytella charruana and compare variation from invasive populations with variation found within three native populations. Location Invaded areas in the USA (Florida, Georgia); native areas in Ecuador, Colombia and Brazil. Methods We sequenced 722 bp of the mitochondrial COI gene from 83 M. charruana samples from four invasive populations (USA) and 71 samples from two natural populations (Ecuador, Columbia). In addition, we sequenced 31 individuals of a congeneric species, Mytella guyanensis y from Salvador, Brazil. We constructed the phylogenetic relationship among all haplotypes and compared diversity measures among all populations. Results We found significantly higher levels of nucleotide diversity in invasive populations than in native populations, although the number of haplotypes was greater in the native populations. Moreover, mismatch distribution analyses resulted in a pattern indicative of population admixture for the invasive populations. Conversely, mismatch distributions of native populations resulted in a pattern indicative of populations in static equilibrium. Main conclusion Our data present compelling evidence that the M. charruana invasion resulted from admixture of at least two populations, which combined to form higher levels of genetic diversity in invasive populations. Moreover, our data suggest that one of these populations originated from the Caribbean coast of South America. Overall, this study provides an analysis of genetic diversity within invasive populations and explores how that diversity may be influenced by the genetic structure of native populations and how mass dispersal may lead to invasion success.
41058144|Aim To describe species-area relationships in human settlements and compare them with those from a non-urban habitat. Location West-central Mexico. Methods We surveyed breeding birds in 13 human settlements and five shrubland patches. We estimated bird species richness using an abundancebased coverage estimator with equal sample sizes to eliminate biases related to sampling effort differences. To assess species-area relationships, we performed log-log linear regressions between the size of the studied patches and their estimated bird richness. We also used a logarithmic approach to determine how the species-area relationship asymptoted and made use of the Michaelis-Menten model to identify the size at which the studied patches reached their maximum species richness. We also investigated (1) possible relationships among the estimated bird richness and other variables known to affect urban-dwelling birds (built cover, plant species richness, tree cover or human population density) and (2) changes in bird community composition related to the size of the studied human settlements. Results Species-area relationships exhibited different patterns among the studied habitats. The log-log regression slope was steeper in human settlements, while the intercept was higher in shrublands. The maximum number of species was more than twofold higher in shrublands. Human settlement patch size was the only variable significantly related to bird richness. Our community composition results show that two main bird groups are related to human settlement size, and that as the size of human settlements increases, bird community similarity in relation to the largest city increases. Main conclusions Human settlements act as ecological islands, with pronounced species-area relationships. Our results suggest that an important threshold for bird species richness and community composition is reached in human settlements > 10.2 km.This threshold is unlikely to be generalizable among bio-regions, and thus should be quantified and considered when studying, managing and/or planning urban systems.
2673358|Field data on associations of butterfly larvae with ants were collated for 435 species of the subfamily Lycaeninae to analyse patterns in the identity, diversity and ecology of attendant ants. Worldwide, members of at least fifty-three ant genera from six subfamilies associate with Lycaeninae larvae. All these ant genera also forage for other liquid carbohydrate food sources. Species of Crematogaster and Camponotus constitute by far the most important ant associates of Lycaeninae larvae. Diversity of butterfly-ant associations, as measured by Hurlbert rarefaction, is highest in the Oriental, Australian and Nearctic faunal regions, and lower in Africa and the Palaearctic. The Neotropical region could not be assessed separately due to paucity of data. Multiple regression analyses revealed that the number of Lycaeninae species associated with a particular ant genus in a facultatively mutualistic manner is largely determined by the ecological prevalence and geographical distribution, but does not correlate with species richness, of an ant genus. This opportunism is suggested to be the key variable supporting the geographically and taxonomically widespread occurrence of ant-caterpillar mutualism in the Lycaeninae. Obligate interactions are much more specific and almost exclusively involve ecologically dominant ants with long-lived colonies. Neither species richness nor geographical distribution of an ant genus are significant predictors. In such associations, the role of ants shifts from visitors to hosts, and patterns of host use and specificity resemble those known from inquiline ant guests.
20172022|It has been suggested that declines in breeding populations of Swainson's hawks (Buteo swainsoni) in California, Oregon, and Nevada may be due to differential mortality of hawks on their wintering grounds. Although massive mortality incidents reported on the wintering grounds partially support this suggestion, there are no data showing differential use of wintering areas by breeding populations of Swainson's hawks. We used stable-hydrogen isotope analysis of feathers to determine whether large flocks of hawks wintering in Argentina consisted of a mixture of individuals from across the North American breeding range or consisted of individuals from discrete breeding populations. We found that flocks of wintering Swainson's hawks consisted of a mixture of individuals. The lack of connectivity between populations of breeding and wintering hawks suggests that high wintering mortality, either natural or human-induced, is unlikely to have direct consequences on a single breeding area in North America. The demographic effects of winter mortality should be 'diluted' across the entire breeding range of Swainson's hawks.
41058171|Aim Variation of life history traits along spatial gradients is poorly understood in invasive species and particularly in freshwater fish. We aimed to examine life history variation in a highly invasive fish (Gambusia holbrooki) along latitudinal and upstream-downstream river gradients and to assess the effects of age on this variation. We hypothesized similar responses in populations inhabiting environments more favourable to this species (lower latitudes and lower reaches of rivers). Location European rivers from southern Spain to southern France. Methods We sampled mosquitofish from the lowest reaches of ten river basins along 6 of latitude in the Mediterranean region and seven sites along the upstream-downstream gradient in three of the rivers. We examined abundance, population structure, size-at-age and other life history traits along these gradients. Results As hypothesized, lower reaches and lower latitudes both resulted in higher reproductive effort and lower body condition of mosquitofish. However, these patterns explained low per cent variation, were nonlinear and strongly depended on fish age. Independently of fish size, age groups differed in reproductive effort, in the gonadal weight-size relationship and its variation along spatial gradients. Mean size-at-age (or overall body size) did not vary with latitude (so the intra-specific version of Bergmann's rule or its converse does not apply) and in contrast increased upstream in rivers. Main conclusions Our findings suggest that for life history traits of freshwater organisms, river longitudinal variation plays a role as important as climate, with often differential effects. Our results also illustrate the poor knowledge of spatial variation of many life history traits, which precludes the understanding and prediction of biological invasions in a rapidly changing world.
20532078|Aim: The enemy release hypothesis is often invoked to explain why some alien plant species become invasive. Here, we investigated relationships between invasiveness, taxonomic isolation and leaf herbivory for tropical alien plant species introduced to a botanical garden in East Africa. Location: Amani Botanical Garden, East Usambara mountains, northeast Tanzania. Methods: We measured the proportion of leaves damaged, and the percentage leaf area damaged on individuals of 28 alien plant species. We extracted data on the presence/absence of native congeners and the number of native confamilial species from an inventory of the East Usambara flora. We also obtained data on planting effort for 26 species, from historical records. Linear and generalized linear models were used to analyse the relationships between invasiveness, herbivory and taxonomic isolation. Results: Mean proportion of leaves damaged per species was significantly explained by taxonomic isolation; proportion of leaves damaged increased with the number of native confamilial species and was greater, on average, for species with native congeners than those without native congeners. The mean percentage of leaf area damaged per species could not be explained by any variables considered in this study. There was no relationship between the degree of herbivory or taxonomic isolation and alien plant species invasiveness, but more-invasive species did have a significantly greater planting effort than less-invasive species. Conclusions: The role herbivores play in controlling alien plant invasions has been investigated relatively little in the tropics. In this study, although the amount of herbivory suffered by alien plants was related to taxonomic isolation, we found no evidence for leaf-feeding invertebrates having a significant role in invasion, suggesting that other factors may be responsible for differences in species success.
4539946|The design of cost-efficient control strategies for invasive species that are too widespread and abundant for complete eradication, at least in the short term, will benefit from a rigorous analysis of invasion patterns and associated effects on native biodiversity. In this paper, the case of the invasive North American tree Prunus serotina in Flanders (Belgium) is presented. Our main objectives were to determine the susceptibility of forest stands to invasion by P. serotina and the subsequent effects of invasion on the understorey community. We used the large database of the first Flemish Forest Inventory. Multiple logistic regressions indicated that P. serotina occurred more frequently in privately owned, younger forest on coarse-textured, dry soils (podzols), and the combination of these factors allowed us to correctly predict presence/absence of P. serotina in 70% of the validation plots. However, locational variables proved to be important as well, indicating that the invasion process is still ongoing. Prediction of P. serotina densities by means of multiple linear regressions was less successful. Effects on the understorey richness were analysed by comparing the number of species and the mean Ellenberg values between pairs of plots, only differing by the presence of P. serotina in the shrub layer. A reduction of the understorey richness following invasion was only pronounced on the more moist soils, while compositional changes mainly occurred on drier soils. It is concluded that priority for control should be given to landscapes with a low fraction of invaded stands and to forest stands located on more moist soils. However, using its potential to threaten native biodiversity as an argument for control should be done with care as further research is needed whether the observed negative effects are due to a species (i.e. native vs. non-native) or a density effect (high vs. low).
40800809|The conservation agenda to re-wild North America may or may not be realistic in terms of political ecology. However, it represents a real conservation recommendation to re-wild North America with the extant megafauna most closely related to those that became extinct at the end of the Pleistocene. The recommendation is based on the presumption that society bears an ethical responsibility to re-wild because humans caused the extinctions. However, the extent to which Pleistocene megafaunal extinctions were the result of overkill is hotly debated. As a result, the ethical imperative for North American re-wilding should be questioned. It will not be questioned unless members of the conservation community read the extensive archaeological and geological literature concerning the North American Pleistocene extinctions. Overlooking the assumptions underlying this particular recommendation is costly to conservation science and to archaeology because it represents an over-simplified, unwieldy and troubling fusion of the two.
41242813|Aim Explaining why some invasions fail while others succeed is a prevailing question in invasion biology. Different factors have been proposed to explain the success or failure of exotics. Evidence suggests that climate similarities may be crucial. We tested this using 12 species of the genus Pinus that have been widely planted and shown to be highly invasive. Pinus is among the best-studied group of exotic species and one that has been widely introduced world-wide, so we were able to obtain data on invasive and non-invasive introductions (i.e. unsuccessful invasions; areas where after many decades of self-sowing seeds there is no invasion). Location World-wide. Methods We developed species distribution models for native ranges using a maximum entropy algorithm and projected them across the globe. We tested whether climate-based models were able to predict both invasive and non-invasive introductions. Results Appropriate climatic conditions seem to be required for these long-lived species to invade because climates accurately predicted invasions. However, climate matching is necessary, but not sufficient to predict the fate of an introduction because most non-invasive introductions were predicted to have triggered an invasion. Main conclusions Other factors, possibly including biotic components, may be the key to explaining why some introductions do not become invasions, because many areas where Pinus is not invading were predicted to be suitable for invasion based solely on climate.
40604220|Aim Conservation managers designate significant areas for shorebirds based on imperfect data. Significant wetlands for migratory shorebirds have usually been identified on the basis of whether they exceed certain thresholds, defined either by total abundance (usually 20,000 waterbirds) or percentage of a population (usually 1.0%). We evaluate the performance of existing criteria and determine if lowering thresholds would improve shorebird conservation without adding unreasonable numbers of significant sites. Location Australia. Methods We evaluated thebest available data, which is used by managers to designate significant areas, to describe the effect of lowering thresholds on the number of significant sites identified and the number of shorebirds these sites support using a range of thresholds in existing criteria. We also investigated factors which may explain interspecific differences evident when lowering thresholds. Results When the threshold for total abundance was lowered from 20,000 to 2000 shorebirds, an additional 45 shorebird areas, holding 65% more shorebirds, were identified. When thresholds for the percentage of a population criterion were lowered from 1.0 to 0.1%, an additional 86 shorebird areas were identified which held 29% more shorebirds. The proportion of a species population counted within wetlands identified as significant by the application of criteria varied widely between species. The percentage of population criterion always identified a network of areas that included more individuals of each species than the total abundance criterion at all threshold levels tested. The percentage of species populations found in networks of significant areas showed greater increase as thresholds were lowered for species that were abundant, widespread and well represented at existing thresholds. Main conclusions Our results suggest lowering thresholds will substantially increase the number of shorebirds in identified significant areas. However, some species will remain under-represented, partly because of interspecific differences in distribution and inadequate sampling of some shorebird habitats.
40800799|Aim Climate limits the ranges of many animals, but the mechanism whereby it does so remains poorly understood. One explanation is that climate (e. g. temperature or rainfall) affects energy expenditure, eventually limiting where a species can occur. We propose that climate can also affect energy uptake through its effect on foraging efficiency. We examined this idea for the case of the hadeda ibis (Bostrychia hagedash) which has considerably expanded its range in southern Africa over the past 80 years. Hadedas forage mainly by extracting earthworms and other invertebrates from soft soil. Soil moisture, in the absence of irrigation largely determined by climate and soil composition, may therefore be a factor limiting feeding efficiency in hadedas. Location We tested this hypothesis by observing foraging hadedas in Cape Town, South Africa. Results We found that soil moisture limited the rate at which hadedas caught prey items, with an optimum on relatively moist ground. We further measured the energy content of the hadedas' main prey, earthworms. Using published physiological relationships, we estimated that hadedas need to forage for about 6.3 h to meet their daily energy requirements under optimal soil moisture conditions. On dry soils, they need to forage for > 12 h, thus showing that soil moisture has the potential to limit the range of this species. Main conclusions Hadedas originally only occurred in the wettest parts of South Africa, but gradually colonized drier areas, and are now absent only from the driest parts of the country. Our results support the view that climate (determining soil moisture) originally limited the hadedas range and that irrigation has been an important factor facilitating their range expansion. The hadeda is an example for a species whose range expansion is driven by interactions between climate and land-use change.
41058138|MaxEnt is a program for modelling species distributions from presence-only species records. This paper is written for ecologists and describes the MaxEnt model from a statistical perspective, making explicit links between the structure of the model, decisions required in producing a modelled distribution, and knowledge about the species and the data that might affect those decisions. To begin we discuss the characteristics of presence-only data, highlighting implications for modelling distributions. We particularly focus on the problems of sample bias and lack of information on species prevalence. The keystone of the paper is a new statistical explanation of MaxEnt which shows that the model minimizes the relative entropy between two probability densities (one estimated from the presence data and one, from the landscape) defined in covariate space. For many users, this viewpoint is likely to be a more accessible way to understand the model than previous ones that rely on machine learning concepts. We then step through a detailed explanation of MaxEnt describing key components (e.g. covariates and features, and definition of the landscape extent), the mechanics of model fitting (e.g. feature selection, constraints and regularization) and outputs. Using case studies for a Banksia species native to south-west Australia and a riverine fish, we fit models and interpret them, exploring why certain choices affect the result and what this means. The fish example illustrates use of the model with vector data for linear river segments rather than raster (gridded) data. Appropriate treatments for survey bias, unprojected data, locally restricted species, and predicting to environments outside the range of the training data are demonstrated, and new capabilities discussed. Online appendices include additional details of the model and the mathematical links between previous explanations and this one, example code and data, and further information on the case studies.
20532107|Aim: Spatial scale is critical for understanding and managing biological invasions. In providing direction to managing alien plant invasions, much emphasis is placed on collecting spatially explicit data. However, insufficient thought is often given to how the data are to be used, frequently resulting in the incompatibility of the data for different uses. This paper explores the role of spatial scale in interpreting, managing and monitoring alien plant invasions in a large protected area. Location: Kruger National Park, South Africa. Methods: Using 27,000 spatially-explicit records of invasive alien plants for the Kruger National Park (&gt; 20,000 km) we assessed alien plant species richness per cell at nine different scales of resolution. Results: When assessing the patterns of alien plants at the various scales of resolution, almost identical results are obtained when working at scales of quarter-degree grids and quaternary watersheds (the fourth level category in South Africa's river basin classification system). Likewise, insights gained from working at resolutions of 0.1-0.5 km and 1-5 km are similar. At a scale of 0.1  0.1 km cells, only 0.4% of the Kruger National Park is invaded, whereas &gt; 90% of the park is invaded when mapped at the quarter-degree cell resolution. Main conclusions: Selecting the appropriate scale of resolution is crucial when evaluating the distribution and abundance of alien plant invasions, understanding ecological processes, and operationalizing management applications and monitoring strategies. Quarter-degree grids and quaternary watersheds are most useful at a regional or national scale. Grid cells of 1 to 25 km are generally useful for establishing priorities for and planning management interventions. Fine-scale data are useful for informing management in areas which are small in extent; they also provide the detail appropriate for assessing patterns and rates of invasion.
20532065|Aim: The world's population is urbanizing, yet relatively little is known about the ecology of urban areas. As the largest metropolitan area in the USA, New York City is an ideal location to study the effects of urbanization. Here, we aim to produce a better understanding of the state of the research for species richness of flora and fauna across the New York metropolitan region. Location: New York metropolitan region, USA. Methods: We conducted a review of the published and grey literature, in which we targeted studies of species richness, and categorized each study by habitat, location and taxonomic group. Results: We found 79 studies reporting location-specific species richness data, resulting in 261 location-taxonomic group records. Of these, 26 records had data from multiple time periods; 17 showed decreases in species richness, six reported increases and three showed stable species richness. Of these 26 records, most declines were attributed to anthropogenic causes, such as habitat loss/degradation and invasive species, while most increases reflected recovery from major habitat loss or increases in exotic species. Overall, most records (84) were terrestrial, followed by those in freshwater (72) and mixed habitats (61). When parsed by taxonomic group, the most commonly studied groups were plants (76) and mammals (48). Main conclusions: In general, we discovered fewer studies than expected reporting species richness, especially studies reporting species richness for more than one point in time. Most studies that did contain data over time reported declines in species richness, while several studies reporting increasing or stable species richness reflected increases in exotic species. This survey provides a crucial first step in establishing baseline ecological knowledge for the New York metropolitan region that should help prioritize areas for protection, research and development. Furthermore, this research provides insights into the impacts of urbanization across the USA and beyond and should help establish similar frameworks for ecological understanding for other metropolitan regions throughout the world.
20171981|Anthropogenic disturbance is considered a risk factor in the establishment of non-indigenous species (NIS); however, few studies have investigated the role of anthropogenic disturbance in facilitating the establishment and spread of NIS in marine environments. A baseline survey of native and NIS was undertaken in conjunction with a manipulative experiment to determine the effect that heavy metal pollution had on the diversity and invasibility of marine hard-substrate assemblages. The study was repeated at two sites in each of two harbours in New South Wales, Australia. The survey sampled a total of 47 sessile invertebrate taxa, of which 15 (32%) were identified as native, 19 (40%) as NIS, and 13 (28%) as cryptogenic. Increasing pollution exposure decreased native species diversity at all study sites by between 33% and 50%. In contrast, there was no significant change in the numbers of NIS. Percentage cover was used as a measure of spatial dominance, with increased pollution exposure leading to increased NIS dominance across all sites. At three of the four study sites, assemblages that had previously been dominated by natives changed to become either extensively dominated by NIS or equally occupied by native and NIS alike. No single native or NIS was repeatedly responsible for the observed changes in native species diversity or NIS dominance at all sites. Rather, the observed effects of pollution were driven by a diverse range of taxa and species. These findings have important implications for both the way we assess pollution impacts, and for the management of NIS. When monitoring the response of assemblages to pollution, it is not sufficient to simply assess changes in community diversity. Rather, it is important to distinguish native from NIS components since both are expected to respond differently. In order to successfully manage current NIS, we first need to address levels of pollution within recipient systems in an effort to bolster the resilience of native communities to invasion.
20171987|While there is intense debate regarding the impact of domestic cat populations on wildlife, its resolution is hindered by the lack of quite basic information. Domestic cats are generalist and obligate predators that receive supplementary food, and their population density reflects that of humans more than the density of their prey. In such a predator-prey system there is the potential for cat populations to have negative impacts on avian assemblages, which may be indicated by negative correlations between cat density and avian species richness and density. Here we report on the nature of such correlations across urban areas in Britain both for groups of species classified regarding their vulnerability to cat predation and individual species. Taking the availability of green space into account, we find negative relationships between cat densities and the number of bird species breeding in urban 1 km  1 km squares. These relationships are particularly strong among groups of species that are vulnerable to cat predation. We find positive correlations between cat and avian densities; these have low explanatory power and shallow slopes among the species groups that are particularly vulnerable to cat predation. Evidence that the densities of individual species that are vulnerable to cat predation are negatively correlated with cat densities is equivocal, with at least half the species showing no marked pattern, and the remainder exhibiting contrasting patterns. Our results appear not to be confounded by the density of nest-predating corvids (carrion crow, magpie, and jay), as the density of these species was not strongly negatively correlated with avian species richness or density. The general lack of marked negative correlations between cat and avian densities at our focal spatial scale may be a consequence of consistently high cat densities in our study areas (minimum density is 132 cats per square kilometre), and thus uniformly high impacts of cat populations on urban avian assemblages.
20171976|Argentine ant (Linepithema humile (Mayr)) invasions are often associated with the displacement of ground-dwelling arthropods. Argentine ant invasions can also exert other effects on the community through interactions with plants and their associated arthropods. For example, carbohydrate resources (e.g. floral or extrafloral nectar) may influence foraging behaviour and interactions among ants and other arthropods. In South Africa's Cape Floristic Region, Argentine ants and some native ant species are attracted to the floral nectar of Leucospermum conocarpodendron Rourke (Proteaceae), a native tree that also has extrafloral nectaries (EFNs). Despite having relatively low abundance in pitfall traps, Argentine ants visited inflorescences more frequently and in higher abundance than the most frequently observed native ants, Camponotus spp., though neither native nor Argentine ant floral foraging was influenced by the EFNs. Non-metric multidimensional scaling revealed significant dissimilarity in arthropod communities on inflorescences with Argentine ants compared to inflorescences with native or no ants, with Coleoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, Arachnida, Orthoptera, and Blattaria all being underrepresented in inflorescences with Argentine ants compared to ant-excluded inflorescences. Native honeybees (Apis mellifera capensis Eschscholtz) spent 75% less time foraging on inflorescences with Argentine ants than on inflorescences without ants. Neither Argentine ant nor native ant visits to inflorescences had a detectable effect on seed set of Le. conocarpodendron. However, a pollen supplementation experiment revealed that like many other proteas, Le. conocarpodendron is not pollen-limited. Flower predation was negatively associated with increased ant visit frequency to the inflorescences, but did not differ among inflorescences visited by native and Argentine ants. Displacement of arthropods appears to be a consistent consequence of Argentine ant invasions. The displacement of floral arthropods by Argentine ants may have far-reaching consequences for this biodiversity hotspot and other regions that are rich in insect-pollinated plants.
20172004|Spatial modelling of species distributions has become an important tool in the study of biological invasions. Here, we examine the utility of combining distribution and ecological niche modelling for retrieving information on invasion processes, based on species occurrence data from native and introduced ranges. Specifically, we discuss questions, concerning (1) the global potential to spread to other ranges, (2) the potential to spread within established invasions, (3) the detectability of niche differences across ranges, and (4) the ability to infer invasion history through data from the introduced range. We apply this approach to two congeneric pavement ants, Tetramorium sp.E (formerly T. caespitum (Linnaeus 1758)) and T. tsushimae Emery 1925, both introduced to North America. We identify (1) the potential of both species to inhabit ranges worldwide, and (2) the potential of T. sp.E and T. tsushimae, to spread to 23 additional US states and to five provinces of Canada, and to 24 additional US states and to one province of Canada, respectively. We confirm that (3) niche modelling can be an effective tool to detect niche shifts, identifying an increased width of T. sp.E and a decreased width of T. tsushimae following introduction, with potential changes in niche position for both species. We make feasible that (4) combined modelling could become an auxiliary tool to reconstruct invasion history, hypothesizing admixture following multiple introductions in North America for T. sp.E, and a single introduction to North America from central Japan, for T. tsushimae. Combined modelling represents a rapid means to formulate testable explanatory hypotheses on invasion patterns and helps approach a standard in predictive invasion research.
40930620|Aim Models predicting the spatial distribution of animals are increasingly used in wildlife management and conservation planning. There is growing recognition that common methods of evaluating species distribution model (SDM) accuracy, as a global overall value of predictive ability, could be enhanced by spatially evaluating the model thereby identifying local areas of relative predictive strength and weakness. Current methods of spatial SDM model assessment focus on applying local measures of spatial autocorrelation to SDM residuals, which require quantitative model outputs. However, SDM outputs are often probabilistic (relative probability of species occurrence) or categorical (species present or absent). The goal of this paper was to develop a new method, using a conditional randomization technique, which can be applied to directly spatially evaluate probabilistic and categorical SDMs. Location Eastern slopes, Rocky Mountains, Alberta, Canada. Methods We used predictions from seasonal grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) resource selection functions (RSF) models to demonstrate our spatial evaluation technique. Local test statistics computed from bear telemetry locations were used to identify areas where bears were located more frequently than predicted. We evaluated the spatial pattern of model inaccuracies using a measure of spatial autocorrelation, local Moran's I. Results We found the model to have non-stationary patterns in accuracy, with clusters of inaccuracies located in central habitat areas. Model inaccuracies varied seasonally, with the summer model performing the best and the least error in areas with high RSF values. The landscape characteristics associated with model inaccuracies were examined, and possible factors contributing to RSF error were identified. Main conclusions The presented method complements existing spatial approaches to model error assessment as it can be used with probabilistic and categorical model output, which is typical for SDMs. We recommend that SDM accuracy assessments be done spatially and resulting accuracy maps included in model metadata.
20171945|Pink-footed geese (Anser brachyrhynchus) breed in the Arctic, where their populations have doubled since the 1980s. There is concern that nesting geese disturb the fragile tundra and lead to a trophic cascade with strong top-down effects on vegetation and soil processes. A better understanding of the distribution of geese and factors that influence nest site selection is needed to highlight potential problem areas and assess the potential for further population expansion. To help infer the importance of environmental variables on nest site selection, we built generalized additive models using nest observations collected in 2003 and 2004 from the Sassendalen valley, Svalbard, along with a suite of geographical information system explantory predictors. The fit of the models was very high (explaining over 72% of the deviance), and predictive power to independent samples indicated useful predictions that could discriminate between presences and absence of nests very well (area under the receiver operating characteristic curves exceeded 0.88). Significant predictors of nest site selection included elevation, slope, aspect, percentage of snow cover, percentage of foraging habitat cover, and a spatial autocovariate. Spatial predictions were applied to the broader Nordenskildsland region of Svalbard and highlighted the importance of previously unsurveyed locations for nesting.
20171964|Numerous hypotheses suggest that natural enemies can influence the dynamics of biological invasions. Here, we use a group of 12 related native, invasive, and naturalized vines to test the relative importance of resistance and tolerance to herbivory in promoting biological invasions. In a field experiment in Long Island, New York, we excluded mammal and insect herbivores and examined plant growth and foliar damage over two growing seasons. This novel approach allowed us to compare the relative damage from mammal and insect herbivores and whether damage rates were related to invasion. In a greenhouse experiment, we simulated herbivory through clipping and measured growth response. After two seasons of excluding herbivores, there was no difference in relative growth rates among invasive, naturalized, and native woody vines, and all vines were susceptible to damage from mammal and insect herbivores. Thus, differential attack by herbivores and plant resistance to herbivory did not explain invasion success of these species. In the field, where damage rates were high, none of the vines were able to fully compensate for damage from mammals. However, in the greenhouse, we found that invasive vines were more tolerant of simulated herbivory than native and naturalized relatives. Our results indicate that invasive vines are not escaping herbivory in the novel range, rather they are persisting despite high rates of herbivore damage in the field. While most studies of invasive plants and natural enemies have focused on resistance, this work suggests that tolerance may also play a large role in facilitating invasions.
40390714|Aim Species-area relationships are often applied, but not generally approved, to guide practical conservation planning. The specific species group analysed may affect their applicability. We asked if species-area curves constructed from extensive databases of various sectors of natural resource administration can provide insights into large-scale conservation of boreal forest biodiversity if the analyses are restricted only to red-listed species. Location Finland, northern Europe. Methods Our data included 12,645 records of 219 red-listed Coleoptera and Fungi from the whole of Finland. The forest data also covered the entire country, 202,761 km. The units of species-area analyses were 224 municipalities where the red-listed forest species have been observed. We performed a hierarchical partitioning analysis to reveal the relative importance of different potential explanatory variables. Based on the results, for all red-listed species, species associated with coniferous trees and for Fungi, the area of economically over-aged forests explained the best the variation in data. For species associated with deciduous trees and Coleoptera, the forest area explained better variation in data than the area of old forests. In the subsequent log-log species-area regression analyses, we used the best variables as the explanatory variable for each species group. Results There was a strong relationship between the number of all red-listed species and the area of old forests remaining, with a z-value of 0.45. The area explained better the number of species associated with conifer trees and Fungi than the number of species associated with deciduous trees and Coleoptera. Main conclusions The high z-values of species-area curves indicate that the remaining old-growth patches constitute a real archipelago for the coniferassociated red-listed species, since lower values had been expected if the surrounding habitat matrix were a suitable habitat for the species analysed.
3696828|Phylogenetic methods hold great promise for the reconstruction of the transition from precursor to modern flora and the identification of underlying factors which drive the process. The phylogenetic methods presently used to address the question of the origin of the Cape flora of South Africa are considered here. The sampling requirements of each of these methods, which include dating of diversifications using calibrated molecular trees, sister pair comparisons, lineage through time plots and biogeographical optimizations, are reviewed. Sampling of genes, genomes and species are considered. Although increased higher-level studies and increased sampling are required for robust interpretation, it is clear that much progress is already made. It is argued that despite the remarkable richness of the flora, the Cape flora is a valuable model system to demonstrate the utility of phylogenetic methods in determining the history of a modern flora.
4539985|We present an index for the dissimilarity/distance between geographical distributions based on reporting rates recorded on a regular lattice. Reporting rate data are common, for example, in bird atlas projects where observers fill in check lists of encountered species in a particular area. Our index is a variation of the Euclidean distance, with the contribution of each grid cell weighted by the number of checklists collected for the grid cell, and a scaling factor to ensure that the dissimilarity ranges between zero and one. Reporting rates were transformed to ordered percentile classes to make species with different mean reporting rates comparable. The index was developed for the comparison of distributions of The Atlas of Southern African Birds. We illustrate the dissimilarity index comparing distributions of whydahs and indigobirds (widowfinches), which are specialized brood parasites, to the distributions of their hosts: waxbills and other finches.
3696890|We discuss a diversity measure combining information of relative abundances and taxonomic distinctiveness suggested by Ricotta (2004). We show that Ricotta's measure violates weak species monotonicity, a condition that requires that the addition of a species should always increase a diversity index if abundances change only marginally. We suggest an alternative index satisfying weak species monotonicity and apply it to the 'Zeesserveld' forest reserve in the Netherlands.
3696925|We studied variability in the abundance of small individuals of an invasive mussel (Musculista senhousia) across the depth distribution of a native marine angiosperm, eelgrass (Zostera marina). Adult mussels and eelgrass have a disjunct local distribution, each limiting the other in complex ways. To assess whether eelgrass also influenced the distribution of juvenile mussels, we sampled inside and outside eelgrass beds in one site in Mission Bay and two in San Diego Bay, California, USA. We sampled mussels in size classes 0.26-0.50 mm, 0.51-1.00 mm, 1.10-2.00 mm and > 2.00 mm from September 1997 to April 1999. We also monitored gonad development in larger mussels and in situ growth of mussels  2 mm tagged with the chemical marker calcein. Spatial and temporal variations in mussel abundances were high but seasonal patterns were roughly similar at San Diego Bay sites; very few mussels were found in Mission Bay. Mussels with full gonads were found year-round in San Diego Bay, as were mussels in the smallest size class (with a large peak in fall and a smaller secondary one in spring), suggesting that many of the smallest mussels represent recruitment. The observation that most, although not all, tagged mussels increased in size provides further support for recruitment. Some of the highest numbers of mussels in the smallest size class were found inside eelgrass beds, indicating that eelgrass does not restrict and may actually enhance the distribution of very small mussels. The disjunct distribution of adult mussels and eelgrass thus is apparently established primarily postrecruitment. M. senhousia is capable of year-round reproduction, recruitment and growth, and thus is poised to preempt space from eelgrass following any disturbance that results in eelgrass declines, such as habitat fragmentation, eutrophication, or disease.
20171969|Weed risk assessment has become an accepted methodology for examining the likelihood and consequence of a plant species becoming invasive outside of its native range. Weed risk assessment draws upon biological and ecological information to estimate the likelihood and magnitude of the threats posed by introducing non-indigenous plants. In geographical terms, this has traditionally been understood as within a new country following importation of plant material. However, recent risk assessment development has focused more specifically on intracountry risk posed by already-present invasive plants and is referred to as post-border weed risk management. This form of assessment calls for fine-scale predictions of invasive species habitat suitability. This study applies some of the more popular and widely available habitat prediction models that represent a variety of different statistical approaches (linear regression, logistic regression, Bayesian probability, Classification and Regression Trees, Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Production) to a single invasive plant, the vertebrate-dispersed, fleshy fruited European olive (Olea europaea L.) in southern Australia. The relationships between the dependant (O. europaea distribution) and independent (soil and climate) variables are used in the models to produce predictive maps for each model. Accuracy was calculated for each model output as well as a combined surface to examine whether recent calls for ensemble modelling of distributions produces improved predictions. Overall, the combined prediction demonstrated superior accuracy compared to any individual model outputs. The combined outputs can be likened to mapped gradations of predicted habitat suitability. The type of output produced in this study should form a critical component of post-border weed risk management but more importantly, the methodology will add to this important discipline.
3696883|Fire is known to facilitate the invasion of many non-native plant species, but how invasion into burnt areas varies along environmental gradients is not well-understood. We used two pre-existing data sets to analyse patterns of invasion by non-native plant species into burnt areas along gradients of topography, soil and vegetation structure in Yosemite National Park, California, USA. A total of 46 non-native species (all herbaceous) were recorded in the two data sets. They occurred in all seven of the major plant formations in the park, but were least common in subalpine and upper montane conifer forests. There was no significant difference in species richness or cover of non-natives between burnt and unburnt areas for either data set, and environmental gradients had a stronger effect on patterns of non-native species distribution, abundance and species composition than burning. Cover and species richness of non-natives had significant positive correlations with slope (steepness) and herbaceous cover, while species richness had significant negative correlations with elevation, the number of years post-burn, and cover of woody vegetation. Non-native species comprised a relatively minor component of the vegetation in both burnt and unburnt areas in Yosemite (percentage species = 4%, mean cover < 6.0%), and those species that did occur in burnt areas tended not to persist over time. The results indicate that in many western montane ecosystems, fire alone will not necessarily result in increased rates of invasion into burnt areas. However, it would be premature to conclude that non-native species could not affect post-fire succession patterns in these systems. Short fire-return intervals and high fire severity coupled with increased propagule pressure from areas used heavily by humans could still lead to high rates of invasion, establishment and spread even in highly protected areas such as Yosemite.
2999801|We reviewed 2524 articles published from 1987 to 1995 in five international journals, Conservation Biology, Biological Conservation, Biodiversity and Conservation, Ecological Applications, and the Journal of Applied Ecology, to assess patterns and imbalances in biodiversity research in the following subject areas: locations where research was conducted, types of organisms studied, types of ecosystems studied, types of methodologies used, and types of stresses investigated. Biodiversity research was found to be narrowly focused with little deviation from its initial course set of being a discipline concerned largely with the implications of forest habitat loss on charismatic terrestrial megafauna; i.e. the `founder effect' is very much in evidence. The `sleeping dragon' of ignored marine biodiversity is really symptomatic of a wider problem, and can perhaps be referred to as a `hibernating hydra' of many imbalances due to, for example, under-representations of research from developing nations, or on amphibians and invertebrates, alpine and arctic systems, sociological components and chemical stresses etc. It is time to take steps to actively awaken the creature so that conservation biology/applied ecology can become more pluralistic in scope.
3246851|Invasive alien grasses can increase fuel loads, leading to changes in fire regimes of invaded ecosystems by increasing the frequency, intensity and spatial extent of fires. Andropogon gayanus Kunth. (Gamba grass), a tall perennial grass from Africa, is invading ecosystems in the Top End of northern Australia. To determine whether A. gayanus alters savanna fire regimes, we compared fuel loads and fire intensities at invaded sites with those from native grass savannas. Savanna invaded by A. gayanus had fuel loads up to seven times higher than those dominated by native grasses. This higher fuel load supported a fire that was on average eight times more intense than those recorded in native grass savannas at the same time of year (means 15700  6200 and 2100  290 kW
2673383|The cactus moth, Cactoblastis cactorum (Berg) (Phycitidae) is native to South America. It was released as a biological control agent against alien Opuntia-cacti in Australia in the 1920s, then in southern Africa, and latterly on several islands, including those in the Caribbean. In 1989, the cactus moth was discovered in Florida, in the United States of America, where it is now threatening the survival of indigenous Opuntia species. In this paper we identify some of the attributes that have contributed to the success of C. cactorum as a weed biological control agent. Many of these same qualities account for the problems that C. cactorum has caused in Florida and predispose it as a major threat to the speciose, native Opuntia-floras of Central and North America. An estimated 79 platyopuntia (prickly pear) species are at risk: 51 species endemic to Mexico; nine species endemic to the United States; and 19 species common to both countries. Many cultivated and wild Opuntia species, that are used in various ways, are also vulnerable to attack by C. cactorum, including at least 25 species in Mexico and three species in the United States, particularly the widely exploited and culturally important cultivars of O. ficus-indica. Some control strategies are suggested that may minimize the risk and consequences of invasion by the cactus moth. The wider implications of this threat to the practice of weed biological control and to conservation are discussed.
40800797|Aim The level of imperilment of mediterranean freshwater fish is among the highest recorded for any group of organisms evaluated to date. Here, we describe the geographical patterns in the incidence of threats affecting mediterranean freshwater fish and test whether the effects of specific threats are spatially related to the degree of imperilment of fish faunas. Location The Mediterranean Basin Biome. Methods From the IUCN Red List, we recorded the six main threats to 232 endemic freshwater fish species. We used data on fish distributions from IUCN to characterize the spatial patterns in the incidence of threats (as percentage of species affected) through multivariate statistics. We studied the relationships between threat incidence and two estimators of imperilment (proportion of species threatened and an index of extinction risk) at two spatial scales (10 x 10 km and basins) using partial least squares regressions (PLSR) that incorporated the effects of species richness and mean range size. Results The main axis of variation in the incidence of threats to freshwater fish split areas mainly affected by invasive species from those areas where species are threatened by pollution and agriculture. Wherever invasive species and water extraction were predominant threats, fish assemblages consistently tended to be more imperilled. Main conclusions As far as we know, this is the first large-scale analysis on the spatial relationships between the incidence of threats and level of imperilment of any taxonomie group. Our results highlight the primary role of invasive species and water extraction as drivers of native fish declines in the Mediterranean Basin. Large-scale patterns described here should be generated by local-scale impacts of both threats on fish biodiversity, widely reported in Mediterranean areas. Because all the species under concern are endemic, control of invasive species and reducing overexploitation of freshwater resources should be conservation priorities for mediterranean freshwater systems.
3246804|Global climates have been changing, sometimes rapidly and dramatically, throughout the evolutionary history of amphibians. Therefore, existing amphibian species have been derived from those that have survived major climatic disturbances. Although recent global climate change has resulted in warming in many regions, temperatures in some areas to date have not changed measurably, or have even cooled. Declines of some amphibian populations have been correlated with climate events, but demonstrations of direct causal relationships need further research. Data are available indicating some indirect effect of climate change on the initiation of breeding activities of some amphibians that occur earlier than in previous springs, but the costs and benefits of these changes are just beginning to be investigated. Climate may also play an indirect role in facilitating epidemics of infectious disease. Regardless of the role that climate changes may have played in past and current amphibian declines, future shifts in climate, should they prove as dramatic as predicted, will certainly pose challenges for surviving amphibian populations and for successful recovery efforts of species that have suffered declines.
3246779|There is general agreement among scientists that biodiversity is under assault on a global basis and that species are being lost at a greatly enhanced rate. This article examines the role played by biogeographical science in the emergence of conservation guidance and makes the case for the recognition of Conservation Biogeography as a key subfield of conservation biology delimited as: the application of biogeographical principles, theories, and analyses, being those concerned with the distributional dynamics of taxa individually and collectively, to problems concerning the conservation of biodiversity. Conservation biogeography thus encompasses both a substantial body of theory and analysis, and some of the most prominent planning frameworks used in conservation. Considerable advances in conservation guidelines have been made over the last few decades by applying biogeographical methods and principles. Herein we provide a critical review focussed on the sensitivity to assumptions inherent in the applications we examine. In particular, we focus on four inter-related factors: (i) scale dependency (both spatial and temporal); (ii) inadequacies in taxonomic and distributional data (the so-called Linnean and Wallacean shortfalls); (iii) effects of model structure and parameterisation; and (iv) inadequacies of theory. These generic problems are illustrated by reference to studies ranging from the application of historical biogeography, through island biogeography, and complementarity analyses to bioclimatic envelope modelling. There is a great deal of uncertainty inherent in predictive analyses in conservation biogeography and this area in particular presents considerable challenges. Protected area planning frameworks and their resulting map outputs are amongst the most powerful and influential applications within conservation biogeography, and at the global scale are characterised by the production, by a small number of prominent NGOs, of bespoke schemes, which serve both to mobilise funds and channel efforts in a highly targeted fashion. We provide a simple typology of protected area planning frameworks, with particular reference to the global scale, and provide a brief critique of some of their strengths and weaknesses. Finally, we discuss the importance, especially at regional scales, of developing more responsive analyses and models that integrate pattern (the compositionalist approach) and processes (the functionalist approach) such as range collapse and climate change, again noting the sensitivity of outcomes to starting assumptions. We make the case for the greater engagement of the biogeographical community in a programme of evaluation and refinement of all such schemes to test their robustness and their sensitivity to alternative conservation priorities and goals.
41242834|Aim To evaluate the role of rhizobial diversity, and symbiotic promiscuity, on the invasive ability of Australian acacias (Acacia species in subgenus Phyllodineae native to Australia). Location Global. Methods A bibliographic review of the rhizobial diversity associated with Australian Acacia species was performed to assess symbiotic promiscuity for invasive and non-invasive species. The rhizobial diversity associated with Acacia dealbata and A. saligna in Australia and Portugal and with A. pycnantha in Australia and South Africa was assessed by 16S rDNA and intergenic spacer sequencing of bacteria isolated from field-collected nodules. Results All studied Australian acacias are nodulated by strains in the genus Bradyrhizobium, which appears to be the dominant group of acacia symbionts in native and non-native soils. Both literature and experimental data from this study suggest that Australian bradyrhizobia might have been co-introduced with acacias to new geographical regions. The studied Acacia species can also harbour other root-nodulating alpha and betaproteobacteria genera, although these are less abundant than Bradyrhizobium. Main conclusions There is no clear difference in the diversity of rhizobial species associated with invasive and non-invasive Australian acacias. All studied invasive acacias nodulate in both native and non-native regions, harbouring predominantly Bradyrhizobium strains but showing some degree of symbiotic promiscuity. The co-introduction of compatible root-nodulating bacteria from Australia might explain the establishment of invasive populations, but novel associations with rhizobia from the invaded soils are also possible. Invasive legumes might use both strategies but species with low symbiotic promiscuity would become invasive only if compatible bacteria are co-introduced in the new regions. The progress of invasion and the impacts on the invaded ecosystems might also differ depending on the nodulation strategy.
4539909|Freshwater finfish species richness and level of endemism in East, and South and South-East Asia that included 17 nations were studied using available databases, and included nation-wise distribution, habitat types, and conservation status. The number of endemic finfish species in the region was 559, belonging to 47 families. Families Cyprinidae and Balitoridae accounted for 43.5% and 16.2% of the total number of endemic species in the region, respectively, followed by Sisoridae (25), Gobiidae (20), Melanotaeniidae (19), and Bagridae (16), and the other 41 families had at least one endemic species. Nation-wise the most number of endemic freshwater finfish species occur in India (191), followed by China (88), Indonesia (84), and Myanmar (60). In India, the endemic species accounted for 26.4% of the native freshwater fish fauna, followed by South Korea (16.9%), the Philippines, (16.3%) and Myanmar (15.7%). Statistically significant relationships discerned between the number of indigenous and endemic species richness to land area (
3246682|The reasons why some species are resistant to extinction or are better invaders of islands than others remain unexplained. In this study, we test the hypothesis that mammals living on the mainland at higher density than predicted by the density/body mass relationship have a much greater chance to colonize a small island successfully, and/or that they are less likely to become extinct when living on small islands. For this, we used data compiled on mammals from a number of Mediterranean islands. We show a nested pattern for mammals on western Mediterranean islands, which suggests that the distribution of mammals on these islands is not the result of a random process. Using two comparative methods, we show that mammal density on the mainland, corrected for body mass, is negatively correlated with island size. Mammals with a high density compared to the density/mass relationship are the best invaders and/or probably have less chance of going extinct on small islands when population size is small.
3246855|The relationships between biogeographical patterns and local-scale patterns based on microscale features, such as topoclimate, are well known in plant biogeography. Here we present a method of determining this correspondence using constrained ordination and correlations. We examined compositional gradients at two different scales, biogeographical chorotypes, and diversity. Compositional data (124 tax x ll3 plots) were sampled at four regularly spaced sites in south-eastern Spain. Longitude (LONGI) was used as a spatial variable representing an east-west climate gradient, together with a radiation index (RADIN), elevation, and a disturbance indicator. All factors correlated with the compositional gradients, but the local-topoclimate factor (RADIN) and the broad-scale factor (LONGI) were most important. These two, spatially independent factors were both correlated with the two first ordination axes, and therefore should relate to the same general trend in species-turnover. There was a significant Spearman's rank correlation between the species order along these two gradients. This is interpreted as an ecological self-similar pattern, i.e. coenoclines repeating at different scales. A consistent order of species along local and broad-scale coenoclines may indicate that similar operational factors act at several scales, here related to moisture and temperature. The distribution of Mediterraneo-Macaronesian, Mediterraneo-Saharo-Arabian and Ibero-Maghribian species confirmed the correspondence between the broad and local-scale gradients. The former group decreases in number with increasing aridity along both gradients, whereas the two latter groups increase. A discordant pattern was found with south-eastern Iberian endemics, but this may be explained by several of them being edaphic (saxicolous) specialists. There is a significant decrease in species richness with high radiation, but the expected increase along the longitudinal gradient from west (dry) to east (moist) was not statistically significant. This may be due to the correspondence between high richness and disturbance, both occurring in the middle of the broad-scale gradient.
2673298|The distribution of benthic foraminifera around the continental margins of North America is extensively documented. Data from 2673 localities consists of a synonomized list of 2329 species (S) and 61369 occurrences (n). Here, the margins are divided into five geographical regions: Pacific (PA), S = 965, sn = 19014; Arctic (AR), S = 458, n = 7342; Atlantic (AT), S = 878, n = 10034; Gulf of Mexico (GM), S = 849, n = 18011; Caribbean (CR), S = 1188, N = 6968. As for many other organisms, species richness is lowest in the Arctic and highest in the Caribbean. In each region, the distribution of species richness and occurrences is a log series. Consequently, the entire series of species occurrences is predicted by the single proportionality constant, . After log series rarefaction, differences in species richness among areas are nearly all accounted for by species occurring  10 times. Most of the differences are accounted for by species occurring once, less by twice, and so on. For example, species occurring once account for 81% of the difference in species richness between the Atlantic and Caribbean, and those occurring once and twice account for 87% of the difference. Most rare species have no fossil record and most endemic species are rare. Probably most of these species evolved recently indicating more origination in species-rich areas. High origination might also be coupled with less extinction. Although each of the five regions can easily be distinguished by differences in composition, in all regions the 10 most abundantly occurring species exhibit nearly equal proportions of occurrences. No region is dominated by only one or two species. All regions exhibit the log series distribution, have nearly equal proportions for abundant species, and differ only in the number of rare species that coexist. Thus, from the point of view of the distribution of occurrences, the most striking aspect is the similarity among regions.
40390771|Aim We measured the changes in an island avifauna over more than 100 years (1898-2006), using community indices accounting for difference in expected species sensitivity to land-use and climate changes. Location Ouessant Island, France, Great Britain. Methods We assessed the temporal trend of the relative proportion of generalist species breeding on Ouessant island and whether high-temperature tolerant species have replaced less tolerant species over this time period. We further tested the relationship between the observed change in the avifauna composition, and long-term population species' trends measured independently in potential source regions of colonist species (France and Great Britain). Results During the whole study period, Ouessant island has experienced a strong increase in species richness (+41%), but a severe decline in specialist species. In contrast, we found no change in species composition in terms of their temperature-tolerance. The observed trend was highly correlated with species trends measured in the Great Britain. Main conclusions Our results revealed an ongoing biotic homogenization process towards more generalist species, coupled with a strong local increase in species richness. The observed trend was most likely driven by a strong habitat change in the island occurring during the period considered, favouring the colonization of generalist species. Our results show that an increase in species richness can be misinterpreted as a sign of conservation improvement and that assessing change in community composition using species-specific ecological traits provides more accurate insights for conservation planning purposes.
3877742|Indirect effects involve more than two species and are defined as how one species alters the effect that another species has on a third. These complex interactions are often overlooked in studies of interactions between alien and native species, and their role in influencing biological invasions has been rarely considered. Based on a comprehensive review of the invasion biology literature, we examine the evidence for the occurrence of four of the most commonly documented indirect effects (apparent competition, indirect mutualism/commensalism, exploitative competition, and trophic cascades) in the invasion process. Studies investigating indirect effects in the context of invasion biology are relatively rare, but have been increasing in recent years, and there are sufficient examples to indicate that this kind of interaction is likely to be more common than is currently recognized. Whether indirect interactions are mediated by an alien or a native species, and whether they occur between ecologically similar or dissimilar alien and native species, depends in part on the type of interaction considered and no predictable patterns were detected in the literature. Further empirical studies will help to elucidate such patterns. At this stage, the inherent unpredictability of indirect interactions means that their impacts in relation to invasions are particularly challenging for land managers to deal with, and their role in invasions is a complex, but is a valuable area of investigation for researchers.
2673356|We present a correlative modelling technique that uses locality records (associated with species presence) and a set of predictor variables to produce a statistically justifiable probability response surface for a target species. The probability response surface indicates the suitability of each grid cell in a map for the target species in terms of the suite of predictor variables. The technique constructs a hyperspace for the target species using principal component axes derived from a principal components analysis performed on a training dataset. The training dataset comprises the values of the predictor variables associated with the localities where the species has been recorded as present. The origin of this hyperspace is taken to characterize the centre of the niche of the organism. All the localities (grid-cells) in the map region are then fitted into this hyperspace using the values of the predictor variables at these localities (the prediction dataset). The Euclidean distance from any locality to the origin of the hyperspace gives a measure of the `centrality' of that locality in the hyperspace. These distances are used to derive probability values for each grid cell in the map region. The modelling technique was applied to bioclimatic data to predict bioclimatic suitability for three alien invasive plant species (Lantana camara L., Ricinus communis L. and Solanum mauritianum Scop.) in South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland. The models were tested against independent test records by calculating area under the curve (AUC) values of receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves and kappa statistics. There was good agreement between the models and the independent test records. The pre-processing of climatic variable data to reduce the deleterious effects of multicollinearity, and the use of stopping rules to prevent overfitting of the models are important aspects of the modelling process.
41242822|Aim Australian acacias (1012 recognized species native to Australia, which were previously grouped in Acacia subgenus Phyllodineae) have been moved extensively around the world by humans over the past 250 years. This has created the opportunity to explore how evolutionary, ecological, historical and sociological factors interact to affect the distribution, usage, invasiveness and perceptions of a globally important group of plants. This editorial provides the background for the 20 papers in this special issue of Diversity and Distributions that focusses on the global cross-disciplinary experiment of introduced Australian acacias. Location Australia and global. Methods The papers of the special issue are discussed in the context of a unified framework for biological invasions. Distributions of species were mapped across Australia, their representation in bioclimatic zones examined and the potential global distribution of the group modelled. By collating a variety of different lists, we determined which Australian acacias have reached different stages in the introduction-naturalization-invasion continuum in different parts of the world. Paradigms and key research questions relating to barriers to invasion, stages of invasion and management perceptions are sketched. Results According to our global database of Australian acacia records, 386 species have been moved outside Australia by human agency, 71 species are naturalized or weedy, and 23 are unequivocally invasive. Climatic models suggest that about a third of the world's land surface is climatically suitable for Australian acacias. Many species are commercially important crops or are useful for other purposes and have been extensively planted, and many different human perceptions of Australian acacias exist in different parts of the world. The papers in the special issue cover all the barriers, stages and processes that define biological invasions and touch on many aspects: history and the human dimension; aspects of the species pool; species traits; biotic interactions; climate and niche; and management. Main conclusions Australian acacias are an excellent model group for examining interactions between evolutionary, ecological and socio-economic drivers of species introductions. New insights have emerged on the biological, ecological and evolutionary correlates of naturalization and invasion, but human usage factors permeate all explanatory models. Understanding and managing introduced Australian acacias requires a fundamental and integrative appreciation of both intrinsic (e.g. species traits) and extrinsic (e.g. human usage and perceptions) aspects.
3696869|The geographical extent of exotic plant species is a major component of invasiveness, which has been explained by intrinsic attributes of the plants, such as growth rate, reproductive type, life form, and biogeographical origin. We assessed quantitatively life cycle and biogeographical origin as determinants of the geographical distribution of naturalized plants in continental Chile, using minimum residence time (MRT) as an estimator of introduction date. We assembled a database with information on 428 plants (principally herbs) in continental Chile, corresponding to 61% of the exotic naturalized flora. For each species we recorded: (1) minimum residence time (introduction date or first recorded date in the country); (2) biogeographical origin (American, Eurasian, others); (3) life cycle (annual, perennial, others); (4) number of Chilean regions occupied by the plant. We found that 82 species (19%) have been recorded in only one region of Chile, while only three species have been found in all 13 regions of the country. About 89% of the species (381) have been found only in central Chile (Regions IV to VIII), while the remaining 11% (47) are found only in the northern (Regions I to III) or southern parts of the country (Regions IX to XII). We detected significant differences in regional spread of naturalized plants according to minimum residence time: those species with shorter MRT had more limited spread ranges than those with longer MRT. Biogeographical origin and life cycle did not explain geographical extent in Chile. This study shows that historical factors are more important than biological ones in determining the geographical extent of naturalized plants in continental Chile. Thus, caution should be exercised when assigning value to biological attributes that may confer invasiveness to naturalized plants.
4539922|In this paper we show how new technologies can be incorporated from the gathering of field data on wildlife distribution to the final stage of producing distribution maps. We describe an integrated framework for conducting wildlife censuses to obtain data to build predictive models of species distribution that when integrated in a GIS will produce a distribution map. Field data can be obtained with greater accuracy and at lower costs using a combination of Global Positioning System, Personal Digital Assistant, and specific wildlife recording software. Sampling design benefits from previous knowledge of environmental variability that can be obtained from free remote sensing data. Environmental predictors derived from this remote sensing information alone, combined with automatic procedures for predictor selection and model fitting, can render cost-effective predictive distribution models for wildlife. We show an example with guanaco distribution in the Patagonian steppes of Santa Cruz province, Argentina.
4539920|Current circumstances - that the majority of species distribution records exist as presence-only data (e.g. from museums and herbaria), and that there is an established need for predictions of species distributions - mean that scientists and conservation managers seek to develop robust methods for using these data. Such methods must, in particular, accommodate the difficulties caused by lack of reliable information about sites where species are absent. Here we test two approaches for overcoming these difficulties, analysing a range of data sets using the technique of multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS). MARS is closely related to regression techniques such as generalized additive models (GAMs) that are commonly and successfully used in modelling species distributions, but has particular advantages in its analytical speed and the ease of transfer of analysis results to other computational environments such as a Geographic Information System. MARS also has the advantage that it can model multiple responses, meaning that it can combine information from a set of species to determine the dominant environmental drivers of variation in species composition. We use data from 226 species from six regions of the world, and demonstrate the use of MARS for distribution modelling using presence-only data. We test whether (1) the type of data used to represent absence or background and (2) the signal from multiple species affect predictive performance, by evaluating predictions at completely independent sites where genuine presence-absence data were recorded. Models developed with absences inferred from the total set of presence-only sites for a biological group, and using simultaneous analysis of multiple species to inform the choice of predictor variables, performed better than models in which species were analysed singly, or in which pseudo-absences were drawn randomly from the study area. The methods are fast, relatively simple to understand, and useful for situations where data are limited. A tutorial is included.
3246844|Avian communities are often used by ecologists as indicators of environmental decline over large spatial areas, because of the ease with which birds can be monitored by nonprofessionals and the availability of continent-wide breeding bird data. The influence of scale on the relationship between bird diversity and the characteristics of the landscape, which can serve as proxies for decline, is receiving greater attention but is still not well understood. We combined data from the Breeding Bird Survey with landscape characteristics derived from the National Land Classification Data for Ohio, USA, to determine the effects of landscape extent on relationships between birds and landscape characteristics. These relationships were determined through previous work to be correlated with avian richness and diversity. We created areas of varying sizes using buffers around each of 58 routes, and calculated diversity for several groups of birds: all birds, five habitat guilds, and three migration guilds. The landscape extent over which landscape characteristics were considered affected the relationship between these characteristics and bird richness and diversity overall, as well as richness and diversity for several of the habitat and migratory guilds. Diversity of woodland birds, Neotropical migrants, and richness of short-distance migrants were best explained by the landscape characteristics examined here, possibly due to a less homogeneous collection of species in the other guild groups. These results suggest that more attention is required in selecting the appropriate scale when using landscape characteristics to predict or manage avian communities, as some characteristics may be more useful for management activities over small areas versus efforts over larger areas.
40930623|Susceptibility of an area to invasion by exotic species is often judged by the fraction of introduced species in the local biota. However, the degree of invasion, particularly in mainland areas, has often been underestimated because of the exclusion of 'domestic exotics' (those introduced to internal units from within the national border) in calculations. Because all introduced species on islands are considered as exotics, this contributes to the perception that islands are more susceptible to invasion than are continental regions. Here, we determine the contribution of domestic exotic species to the degree of invasion (exotic fraction) in mainland areas. We quantify the relationships of exotic fraction to the area, human population density and land use within each of the 48 conterminous US states to identify mechanisms that potentially influence the degree of invasion. For each of the 48 conterminous US states, we compiled the number of species introduced from outside the United States ('foreign exotics') and the number of exotics introduced from other conterminous US states ('domestic exotics'). The status of each species as foreign or domestic was determined for each state by researching its precise origins through vouchered herbarium records, supplemented by literature (Kartesz, 2010). We found that (1) the exotic fraction inevitably decreases with increasing area as the pool of potential exotic species decreases; (2) exotic richness of areas within large mainland regions is underestimated to the extent that species introduced among areas within a region are considered as natives; and (3) human activities contribute disproportionately more exotics to smaller than to larger administrative areas. How we define ' exotic' influences how we count non-native species and perceive invasibility. Excluding domestic exotics in mainland regions leads to a biased perception of increased invasibility on islands, where all introduced species are considered exotic. Thus, future documentation and interpretation of invasion patterns and management of exotics should account for these biases in quantifying the exotic fraction.
41242816|Aim The Llanos de Ojuelos in Mexico's Central High Plateau supports unique Opuntia scrublands and the southernmost Chihuahuan grasslands. Although human activities have modified strongly its landscape and impacted its biodiversity at an unknown scale, such impacts are poorly known. We aimed at understanding how nocturnal rodent species distributed across the landscape and formed assemblages and on the role and integration of the different habitats at the landscape level. Location The study was carried out at 43 sites in a study area of approximately 3350 km in the Llanos de Ojuelos. Methods During the Spring of 2008, we surveyed nocturnal rodents, through live-trapping. We redefined habitat classes based on log-linear multinomial regressions of rodent captures. Species rarefaction curves and true alpha, beta and gamma diversities were calculated for the different habitat classes. A map of the different habitats was constructed based on Landsat imagery. Results We captured 458 individuals of 20 rodent species. Multinomial regressions caused the merger of 11 a priori defined habitat classes into 7. Leguminous scrub and mixed nopaleras, both secondary habitats, had the highest alpha and gamma diversity values. Closed arboreal nopaleras and grasslands had the highest within-habitat variability (D  ) and the lowest area coverage. Within-habitat D  was larger than landscape D  , because of the great overlap in rodent assemblage composition between the habitats. Main conclusions There are no 'typical' rodent assemblages per habitat class, but they are organized loosely and have fuzzy borders. Rodent community organization was highly species-centred. At the landscape level, secondary habitats have a profound effect on rodent diversity and should be included in management schemes for biological conservation. The most endangered habitats seem to be the closed arboreal nopaleras and grasslands. Any conservation efforts must consider their conservation and an increase in the size of remaining patches.
40390755|Aim Amphibian chytridiomycosis, an emerging infectious disease caused by the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), is associated with global amphibian population declines and species extinctions. Current evidence indicates that the pathogen has recently spread globally from an enzootic focus, with Xenopus spp. (family Pipidae) in South Africa having been identified as a likely source. The aim of this study was to investigate further the likelihood of African Xenopus spp. as the original source of Bd. Location We examined 665 museum specimens of 20 species of African and South American pipid frogs collected between 1844 and 1994 and held in the collection of the Natural History Museum, London. Methods Skin brushings taken from adult amphibians and brushings from the mouthparts, lips and developing hind limbs of larval pipid frogs were examined for the presence of Bd using real-time PCR. Results We found six cases of Bd infection in three Xenopus spp. (from Africa), but none of the South American pipids was positive, although only 45 South American frogs were available for examination. The earliest case of Bd infection was in a specimen of Xenopus fraseri collected from Cameroon in 1933. A consistently low prevalence of infection over time indicates that a historical equilibrium existed between Xenopus spp. and Bd infection in Africa. Main conclusions Our results suggest that Bd infection was present in Xenopus spp. across sub-Saharan Africa by the 1930s, providing additional support for the 'out of Africa' hypothesis. If this hypothesis is correct, it strengthens the argument for stringent control of human-assisted movements of amphibians and other wildlife world-wide to minimize the likelihood of pathogen introduction and disease emergence that can threaten species globally. Our findings help inform species selection for conservation in the face of the current Bd pandemic and also guide future research directions for selecting Bd isolates for sequencing and virulence testing.
3696908|Analysis of long-term patterns of invasion can reveal the importance of abiotic factors in influencing invasion dynamics, and can help predict future patterns of spread. In the case of the invasive Argentine ant (Linepithema humile), most prior studies have investigated this species' limitations in hot and dry climates. However, spatial and temporal patterns of spread involving two ant populations over the course of 30 years at a high elevation site in Hawaii suggest that cold and wet conditions have influenced both the ant's distribution and its rate of invasion. In Haleakala National Park on Maui, we found that a population invading at lower elevation is limited by increasing rainfall and presumably by associated decreasing temperatures. A second, higher elevation population has spread outward in all directions, but rates of spread in different directions appear to have been strongly influenced by differences in elevation and temperature. Patterns of foraging activity were strongly tied to soil temperatures, supporting the hypothesis that variation in temperature can influence rates of spread. Based on past patterns of spread, we predicted a total potential range that covers nearly 50% of the park and 75% of the park's subalpine habitats. We compared this rough estimate with point predictions derived from a degree-day model for Argentine ant colony reproduction, and found that the two independent predictions match closely when soil temperatures are used in the model. The cold, wet conditions that have influenced Argentine ant invasion at this site are likely to be influential at other locations in this species' current and future worldwide distribution.
2673341|The overall goal of this study is to understand the structure and function of a Mediterranean shrubland at landscape scale by means of satellite images and GIS. Specifically, to assess the sensitivity of several spatial statistics to characterise landscape pattern, measure fragmentation and quantify the change through time. We study the landscape structure of a Mediterranean shrubland located in the east part of Spain (Valencia) and the change in spatial patterns of different shrubs types from 1984 to 1994. To accomplish these objectives, we used 10 Landsat
3696924|Two major events were invoked to understand recent biodiversity patterns in Mediterranean floras: northern hemisphere glaciations and historical human impacts. These two events were considered in this work, where we investigated general patterns in plant species richness and rarity attributes in two different Mediterranean regions: California and Iberia. Our goal was to assess whether comparisons of this sort provided evidence of different extinctions rates, making an effort to decouple anthropogenic from ice age-related effects in both regions. We employed a taxonomically revised database for eight Mediterranean floras containing information on species richness for 298 families and rarity attributes for 11,834 taxa. We used summary statistics (Gini coefficient) and randomly generated models to test for general patterns of the distribution of diversity within and among taxonomic groups. We then used this general pattern among Mediterranean floras to provide a context in which to evaluate our two focal areas. Results indicated that floras of California and Iberia share the closest taxonomic structure among Mediterranean regions. Differences emerged in rarity attributes and the taxonomic identities of rarity rich groups. These findings were interpreted in the light of Pleistocene changes. In addition, a closer focus on rarity attributes allowed us to pinpoint some segments of these floras where anthropogenic activities may drive variation from general patterns, specifically for rare species in ecologically sensitive habitats.
3696909|According to the equilibrium theory of island biogeography, high colonization ability of species is associated with low exponents (z) of the species-area relationship (SAR) and weak spatial patterns in species number and dissimilarity. However, the relationship between z and the strength of these spatial patterns has not been investigated systematically. We used a multispecies metapopulation model to investigate these relationships in an archipelago of islands. We conclude that this relationship can only be predicted if either the dispersal ability or the power of establishment of species is known. With species richness limited by establishment, we generated high z-values associated with weak spatial patterns in species number and dissimilarity. If species richness was constrained by the dispersal ability of species, we observed low to medium z-values but strong spatial patterns. If the dispersal ability and the abilities of species to establish were both high, z-values and spatial pattern tend to be low and species numbers were limited by the size of the regional species pool.
40390729|Aim Using total species richness to characterize biodiversity may mask multiple response patterns of species. We propose a null model analysis of species co-occurrence-based classification to identify sets of species that may have similar (within-groups) and distinct (between groups) response patterns to their environment. The classification should also provide an explicit framework for selecting indicator species with characteristic co-occurrence patterns to predict overall species richness. Location Cte-Nord, Qubec, Canada. Methods We combined null-model of species co-occurrence and cluster analysis to identify species groups within diverse assemblages of ground-dwelling and flying beetles of stands in a boreal forest mosaic; we then examined their co-occurrence and response patterns to habitat characteristics. Best subset regressions were used to select indicator species of richness within each group, from which indicators of total species richness were selected. Results The identified species groups appeared to display contrasting co-occurrence and response patterns to at least one of the stand-level habitat characteristics. Among flying beetles, for example, richness increased with standlevel heterogeneity for two groups and decreased for two other groups, but the relationship was non-significant for the total richness. We identified 28 indicator species that explained > 80% (validated by bootstrap analysis) of the variation in total species richness. Predictive performance of indicators was higher than when their co-occurrence were reshuffled, even under a highly constrained null model, indicating that co-occurrence patterns contributed to their predictive performance. Main conclusions Co-occurrence-based classification appears as a promising and effective tool for deconstructing biodiversity into species groups which reflect their ecological commonalities and differences, thus reducing the risk of making faulty inferences about the causes underlying overall diversity patterns. The method provides an explicit framework for selecting indicator species representing different species groups that may reflect the multiple responses of species co-occurring with them. Indicator species can be effective for predicting overall species richness.
4539992|The conservation of poorly known species is difficult because of incomplete knowledge on their biology and distribution. We studied the contribution of two ecological niche modelling tools, the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP) and maximum entropy (Maxent), in assessing potential ranges and distributional connectivity among 12 of the least known African and Asian viverrids. The level of agreement between GARP and Maxent predictions was low when < 15 occurrences were available, probably indicating a minimum number below that necessary to obtain models with good predictive power. Unexpectedly, our results suggested that Maxent extrapolated more than GARP in the context of small sample sizes. Predictions were overlapped with current land use and location of protected areas to estimate the conservation status of each species. Our analyses yielded range predictions generally contradicting with extents of occurrence established by the IUCN. We evidenced a high level of disturbance within predicted distributions in West and East Africa, Sumatra, and South-East Asia, and identified within West African degraded lowlands four relatively preserved areas that might be of prime importance for the conservation of rainforest taxa. Knowing whether these species of viverrids may survive in degraded or alternative habitats is of crucial importance for further conservation planning. The level of coverage of species suitable ranges by existing and proposed IUCN reserves was low, and we recommend that the total surface of protected areas be substantially increased on both continents.
3877738|In this study, we investigate patterns in the prevalence of dynamic range-abundance relationships of the Danish avifauna, using breeding bird atlases from 1971 to 1974 and from 1993 to 1996. We focus on differences between common and rare species by dividing the assemblage into range-size quartiles. The trend in total population size was determined using an index. Range was determined as grid cell occupancy and standardized to facilitate comparisons between common and rare species. While narrow-ranging species showed strong and consistent range-abundance relationships, the relationships for widespread species were weak and exhibited considerable variation. This may be due to differences in patterns of resource use, since widespread species generally have wider niches, and so may be less affected by resource-based factors linking range and abundance. Since a tight and dynamic relationship is upheld for rare species, monitoring strategies based on range size surveys seem viable.
41058137|Aim To determine why some communities are more invasible than others and how this depends on spatial scale. Our previous work in serpentine ecosystems showed that native and exotic diversity are negatively correlated at small scales, but became positively correlated at larger scales. We hypothesized that this pattern was the result of classic niche partitioning at small scales where the environment is homogeneous, and a shift to the dominance of coexistence mechanisms that depend on spatial heterogeneity in the environment at large scales. Location Serpentine ecosystem, Northern California. Methods We test the above hypotheses using the phylogenetic relatedness of natives and exotics. We hypothesized that (1) at small scales, native and exotic species should be more distantly related than expected from a random assemblage model because with biotic resistance, successful invaders should have niches that are different from those of the natives present and (2) at large scales, native and exotic species should not be more distantly related than expected. Result We find strong support for the first hypothesis providing further evidence of biotic resistance at small scales. However, at large scales, native and exotic species were also more distantly related than expected. Importantly, however, natives and exotics were more distantly related at small scales than they were at large scales, suggesting that in the transition from small to large scales, biotic resistance is relaxed but still present. Communities at large scales were not saturated in the sense that more species could enter the community, increasing species richness. However, species did not invade indiscriminately. Exotic species closely related to species already established the community were excluded. Main conclusions Native communities determine the identity of exotic invaders even at large spatial scales where communities are unsaturated. These results hold promise for predicting which species will invade a community given the species present.
2999810|The Karoo-Namib Region, comprising the arid lands of southern Africa, supports an extraordinarily rich and compositionally unusual flora. This region includes the winter-rainfall Succulent Karoo (part of the Greater Cape Flora), the summer-rainfall Nama Karoo, and incorporates the Namib Desert. The Succulent Karoo is home to the world's largest succulent flora and is very rich in geophytes. Species-area patterns at the regional scale (10<sup>1</sup>-10<sup>6</sup> km<sup>2</sup>) show that the Succulent Karoo had 2.6 times as many species per unit area than the Nama Karoo. The Succulent Karoo was also richer than other winter-rainfall, semi-arid (100-400 mmyr<sup>-1</sup>) regions of the world, having, for example, nearly four times as many species than equivalent-sized North American regions. Similarly, southern African winter-rainfall desert (<100 mmyr<sup>-1</sup>) regions were exceptionally species-rich: here 331 species have been recorded in an area of 1 3 km<sup>2</sup>. The Namib Desert, which spans the Succulent and Nama Karoo regions, has up to 200 times the number of species that similar-sized areas of the Saharan Desert. On the other hand, the Nama Karoo does not appear to be unusually rich at the regional scale. The Succulent Karoo represents a major extratropical centre of plant biodiversity. Reasons for its high diversity include unusually predictable seasonal rainfall and relatively mild summers. The climatic regime has selected for short-lived and drought-sensitive shrub lifestyles, largely associated with dwarf to low leaf succulents. A combination of short generation times and limited gene flow has resulted in massive diversification within certain lineages (especially the Mesembryanthema), leading to the fine-scale discrimination of habitat and geographic space. Plant-pollinator coevolution appears to have played some role in the diversification of the region's large geophyte flora.
3246773|Distributions of species along a freshwater habitat gradient, ranging from ephemeral pools with few predators to permanent lakes with fish, have been used to infer how predation establishes trade-offs that promote ecological specialization. Larval anurans are said to support the trade-off model, but there are few comparable and quantitative habitat data available to assess this claim. I performed a survey of field biologists to evaluate the habitats of similar sets of species in the northern parts of Europe (40 respondents and 12 species) and eastern North America (30 respondents and 8 species), using a standard set of criteria. For six European species I also had quantitative field sampling data, and found close agreement between survey results and predator densities experienced by tadpoles in the field. Distributions of most species were restricted to only part of the habitat gradient, as expected under the trade-off model. The survey confirmed reports that North American Rana species replace one another along the gradient, but this was not true in Europe. European Rana were no different from the North American species in their seasonal and geographical overlap, so the absence of habitat partitioning in European Rana may result from interactions with other species or the special impact of glaciation in Europe. Habitats were unrelated to evolutionary relationships among species, suggesting that changes in habitat evolve quickly. The survey approach was useful for comparing distributions of species, and for generating hypotheses about evolutionary responses to habitat gradients.
40390772|Aim To create a fine-scale map of the distribution of Asiatic black bears, identify landscape variables affecting the spatial range of this species and assess population trends using presence-absence data and opinions of local villagers. Location Sichuan Province, south-western China. Methods We divided the province into 15 x 15 km cells, stratified them by forest cover, elevation and road density and randomly selected 494 cells (21% of province) for surveys. In each cell, we interviewed villagers and ground-verified their reports of bear presence. We ground-truthed reports of bear absence by conducting transects for bear sign in the best available habitat. We used logistic regression to identify key variables affecting presence of bears and predict their occurrence in unsampled cells. Results We detected bears in 360 cells (73%). Models correctly predicted bear occurrence in 90.3% of cells where we detected bears and 84.5% of sampled cells where bears were absent. Models predicted 42.7% of Sichuan to be occupied by bears. Bear occurrence was strongly related to forest cover throughout the province. Roads had a negative effect in western region of province. Agricultural lands had a negative effect only when they were distant from forests. Villagers were accurate in their knowledge of bear presence or absence. Interviewed villagers {n = 1816) thought that bears were increasing in 32%, stable in 10%, and decreasing in 58% of cells with bears. Where bear populations were perceived to be declining, villagers identified poaching as the most common cause. Main conclusions Our fine-scale distribution map can be used for future monitoring and the key landscape factors related to occupancy by bears can be used in management plans for this species. Interviewing local villagers is an efficient and reliable means of assessing distribution, and changes therein, for animals such as bears that often interact with people and leave obvious signs.
20532108|Aim: To examine whether at a sub-continental scale range-limited species tend to occur close to areas of transition between vegetation boundaries more often than expected by change. Location: South Africa and Lesotho. Methods: We examined the relationship between the distance of a grid square to ecological transition areas between vegetation types and both avian and frog range-limited species richness in the quadrat. We used quadrats at a spatial resolution of quarter degree (15  15  676 km). Spatial congruence between areas representing range-restricted species and those representing ecological transition zones was assessed using a random draw technique. Results: Species richness and range size rarity are generally negatively correlated with distance to transition areas between vegetation communities when analysed for the whole region for both groups. Although this relationship becomes weaker after controlling for environmental energy and topographical heterogeneity, the explanatory power of distance to transition areas remains significant, and compared to the different biomes examined, accounts for most of the variation in bird richness (20%), frog richness (18%), range-restricted bird species (17%) and range-restricted frog species (16%) in the savanna biome. The random draw technique indicated that areas representing range-restricted species were situated significantly closer in space to those areas representing transition areas between vegetation communities than expected by chance. Main conclusions: We find that at the sub-continental scale, when examined for South Africa, areas of transition between vegetation communities hold concentrations of range-limited species in both birds and frogs. We find that South African endemic/range-limited birds and frogs are located closer to ecological transition zones than endemics and non-endemics combined. This has important implications for ongoing conservation planning in a biogeographical context.
4124756|Accurate identification of weedy species is critical to the success of biological control programs seeking host-specific control agents. Phylogenetic relationships based on internal transcribed spacer region (ITS1, ITS2) DNA sequence data were used to elucidate the most likely origin and taxonomic placement of Senecio madagascariensis Poir. (fireweed; Asteraceae) in the Hawaiian archipelago. Putative S. madagascariensis populations from Madagascar, South Africa, Swaziland, and Hawaii were included in the analysis. Different phylogenetic models (maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood) were congruent in suggesting that Hawaiian fireweed is most closely related to populations from the KwaZulu-Natal region in South Africa. Phylogenetic divergence and morphological data (achene characteristics) suggest that the S. madagascariensis complex is in need of revised alpha-level taxonomy. Taxonomic identity of invasive fireweed in Hawaii is important for finding effective biological control agents as native range populations constitute different biotypic variants across a wide geographical area. Based on our phylogenetic results, research directed at biological control of Hawaiian infestations should focus on areas in the KwaZulu-Natal region in South Africa where host-specific natural enemies are most likely to be found. Our results show that phylogeographical analysis is a potential powerful and efficient tool to address questions relevant to invasion biology of plants.
3696885|Alpheid shrimp represent an abundant and diverse, but poorly characterized, component of the cryptic biodiversity of coral reefs worldwide. Sponge-inhabiting alpheids provide a promising model system for exploring patterns of cryptic reef biodiversity because their habitats (hosts) are discrete and qualitatively distinct units. We tabulated data from 14 years of collections at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize to quantify patterns of diversity, host specificity, and dominance among sponge-dwelling shrimp (Synalpheus), with special attention to eusocial species. From > 600 sampled sponges of 17 species, we recognized at least 36 Synalpheus shrimp species. Of these, 15 (42%) were new to science. Species accumulation curves suggest that we have sampled most of the Synalpheus diversity at Carrie Bow Cay. Diversity of sponge-dwelling Synalpheus was slightly higher in shallow water, probably because of greater habitat diversity, than in deep water. Host specificity was surprisingly high, with > 50% of all shrimp species found in only a single sponge species each, although some shrimp species used as many as six hosts. Cohabitation of individual sponges by multiple shrimp species was rarer than expected by chance, supporting previous distributional and behavioural evidence that competition for hosts is strong and moulds patterns of host association. The fauna of most well-sampled sponge species was dominated, both in numbers of individuals and in frequency of occurrence, by eusocial species. Eusocial shrimp species also inhabited a significantly greater number of sponge species than did non-social shrimp. Consequently, > 65% of shrimp in our quantitative samples belonged to the four eusocial species, and on a per-species basis, eusocial species were 17 times as abundant as non-social species. Our data suggest that the highly diverse sponge-dwelling shrimp assemblage of the Belize Barrier Reef is structured by competition, and that eusociality has allowed a small number of species to dominate the sponge resource.
3696827|The spectacular diversity of the Cape flora has promoted wide speculation on the evolutionary processes behind its origins, but until recently these ideas could not be tested rigorously due to the almost complete absence of a fossil record for the region. Now, molecular phylogenetic approaches, combined with analyses of ecological and biogeographical information, offer the potential to test key hypotheses about speciation of so-called Cape clades of flowering plants. We outline the main theories and how they might be tested by phylogenetic approaches. One conclusion is that population level studies of particular species complexes are now needed to complement the growing volume of phylogenetic information for Cape clades and to provide better understanding of mechanisms of population divergence in the Cape. Another is that comparisons between Cape and non-Cape clades are needed to confirm whether speciation is indeed faster in the Cape region. An alternative possibility, that extinction rates are lower, should also be considered in these comparisons. By virtue of the ongoing, coordinated efforts by a global team of botanists, the Cape is now uniquely placed for exploring the origins and assembly of a regional assemblage or biome.
2673381|Two South African mountain fynbos sites were studied to determine the effect of short fire cycles on the cover and density of understorey sprouting species and their subsequent effect on plant-species richness. Frequent fires (4-6 years between burns) increased the cover of sprouting species by 32% when compared to an adjacent site where the penultimate fire was 28 years previously. There was little or no effect of fire frequency on the densities of understorey sprouters; however, individuals were larger at sites with short fire cycles. The response of individual species of sprouters was variable with one species, Hypodiscus striatus, showing no response to fire frequency. The impact of sprouting species on the species richness of the plant community was great. The mean number of species recorded in quadrats with a high cover of sprouters was 60% lower in comparison to quadrats with low covers or under the burned skeletons of overstorey proteas. The effect of sprouters was consistent for all functional groups of species (i.e. sprouters, non-sprouters, short-lived and long-lived species), in each case reducing the number of species present.
3696842|Disturbances and ecosystem recovery from disturbance both involve numerous processes that operate on multiple spatial and temporal scales. Few studies have investigated how gradients of disturbance intensity and ecosystem responses are distributed across multiple spatial resolutions and also how this relationship changes through time during recovery. We investigated how cover of non-native species and soil-aggregate stability (a measure of vulnerability to erosion by water) in surface and subsurface soils varied spatially during grazing by burros and cattle and whether patterns in these variables changed after grazer removal from Mojave National Preserve, California, USA. We compared distance from water and number of ungulate defecations - metrics of longer-term and recent grazing intensity, respectively, - as predictors of our response variables. We used information-theoretic analyses to compare hierarchical linear models that accounted for important covariates and allowed for interannual variation in the disturbance-response relationship at local and landscape scales. Soil stability was greater under perennial vegetation than in bare interspaces, and surface soil stability decreased with increasing numbers of ungulate defecations. Stability of surface samples was more affected by time since removal of grazers than was stability of subsurface samples, and subsurface soil stability in bare spaces was not related to grazing intensity, time since removal, or any of our other predictors. In the high rainfall year (2003) after cattle had been removed for 1-2 years, cover of all non-native plants averaged nine times higher than in the low-rainfall year (2002). Given the heterogeneity in distribution of large-herbivore impacts that we observed at several resolutions, hierarchical analyses provided a more complete understanding of the spatial and temporal complexities of disturbance and recovery processes in arid ecosystems.
3246818|Venezuelan savannas are exposed to land-use changes and biological invasions which compromise their persistence and function. The native C
40800788|Aim Long-distance migrations of terrestrial animals, driven by needs such as food, water and escaping predators and harsh climatic conditions, are widely known phenomena. The saiga antelope (Saiga tatarica tatarka) migrates over long distances in the semi-arid rangelands of Central Asia. Both the saiga's range and its populations have been severely affected by socio-political and land use changes over the last century, related to the formation and dissolution of the Soviet Union. We identified ecological drivers of saiga migration, compared four populations in terms of differences in the geographical characteristics of their ranges and the factors affecting habitat selection within the seasonal ranges. Location Kazakhstan and pre-Caspian Russia. Methods Using 40 years of direct observations, we tested for differences between the four saiga populations' ranges in terms of precipitation, seasonal productivity and topographical variables using discriminant analyses. We tested hypotheses concerning the drivers of migration to their seasonal ranges and assessed the impact of peak and average values and the predictability of drivers of habitat use within the seasonal ranges using logistic regressions. Results Three of the four populations migrate in a similar way, following a latitudinal gradient driven by seasonal changes in productivity, which is closely related to broad-scale differences in precipitation. Intermediate productivity and its low interannual variability determine habitat selection within the seasonal ranges of all the populations. Main conclusions Migration of all four populations is driven by productivity and precipitation. The migrations in Kazakhstan are still intact despite major recent disruption to the populations, whereas their status in the pre-Caspian region is unknown. All four populations are under severe threat from habitat loss, poaching, lack of protection and gaps in ecological knowledge. A better understanding of the drivers of saiga migration at multiple scales is a key step towards addressing these threats.
40390777|Aim In this study, a dataset on world-wide squirrel introductions has been used to locate the relative pathways and to determine the factors correlated with species establishment. Location The world. Methods The analysis includes a chronological table of introductions, a biogeographical analysis and an assessment of the likelihood of establishment according to species, propagule pressure, area of origin and characteristics of the recipient area. Results The main vector of such introductions was the intentional importation of live animals. Introductions increased in developed countries and proportionately to the volume of imported mammals. Moreover, areas characterized by higher numbers of native squirrels were more invaded. Squirrels were often introduced deliberately and only to a smaller extent escaped from captivity. The likelihood of their establishment increased proportionately to the number of animals released and decreased proportionately to the increase of the latitudinal distance between the recipient area and the native range of the species. The likelihood that the release of one pair of either Sciurus or Callosciurus species would establish a new population was higher than 50%. Main conclusion Squirrels proved to be successful invaders and their importation should be restricted so as to prevent further introductions.
20532072|Aim: We analysed presence/absence data for understorey bird species in rain forest fragments sampled from 1979 through 2001. Here we consider extinctions between 1992, when most fragments had been isolated for at least 8 years, and 2001. Our objectives were to determine whether high extinction rates documented soon after isolation continued through up to 20 years after isolation, and to examine fragment size and landscape effects on extinction. Location: Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project, near Manaus, Brazil. Methods: Through 1992, birds were surveyed with standardized mist net sampling in ten 1- to 100-ha fragments. We repeated the mist net protocol in 2000-01. We also added remote taping of the dawn chorus and tape playback surveys for species captured in 1991-92 but not in 2000-01. Results: Between 1992 and 2001, 37 species went extinct in at least one fragment. As expected, extinction rate decreased with increasing fragment size. Over 30% of species went extinct in 1-ha fragments, compared to about 5% in 100-ha fragments. Extinction followed a predictable pattern: most species lost from 100-ha fragments between 1992 and 2001 had already gone extinct in smaller fragments before 1992. Despite extinctions, fragments gained species between 1992 and 2001, apparently due to species moving through the developing second growth matrix. Fragments surrounded by old second growth had lower extinction rates than predicted based on fragment size alone. Main conclusions: Sequential extinctions occurred for at least 20 years. Some additional species previously lost from smaller fragments may continue to go extinct in 100-ha fragments. At the same time, species assemblages in 1- and 10-ha fragments mostly reflect second-growth dynamics by 20 years after isolation. High species loss predicted from the first few years after isolation has not occurred, almost certainly because of recolonization.
2673374|Compost heaps house a species-rich fauna of arthropods. This survey reviews changes in the composition of the beetle fauna in compost heaps in the Nordic countries during the 20th century. A total of 34 alien beetle species have established in compost heaps; 12 of these are also established in natural habitats. A combination of long-distance human transport and short-distance natural spread are proposed as dominant factors, explaining the dispersal of the species. An eastern route of immigration is proposed for Baeocrara japonica, Lithocharis nigriceps, Bohemiella paradoxa, Acrotona pseudotenera and Oxytelus migrator, while a southern route of immigration is proposed for Perigona nigriceps, Acrotona parens, Falagrioma concinna, Trichiusa immigrata, Cartodere nodifer, Ahasverus advena, Oryctes nasicornis and Atheta triangulum. There is no relationship between the types of compost preferred by the different species and the dominant way of dispersal. Among the trophic guilds that species belong to, the predators are more dependent on human transport than natural dispersal. The trophic guild to which a species belongs has no effect on whether or not the species is established away from compost heaps. The generalized compost fauna and species associated with bark compost naturalize away from compost heaps more successfully than expected. It is hypothesized that the successful establishment of alien species in compost habitats results from increased frequency of introductions and warm, thermal stability in large compost heaps during the Nordic winter. The establishment of new species in compost habitats probably has a minor impact on native inhabitants
41242792|Aim Studying relationships between species and their physical environment requires species distribution data, ideally based on presence-absence (P-A) data derived from surveys. Such data are limited in their spatial extent. Presence-only (P-O) data are considered inappropriate for such analyses. Our aim was to evaluate whether such data may be used when considering a multitude of species over a large spatial extent, in order to analyse the relationships between environmental factors and species composition. Location The study was conducted in virtual space. However, geographic origin of the data used is the contiguous USA. Methods We created distribution maps for 50 virtual species based on actual environmental conditions in the study. Sampling locations were based on true observations from the Global Biodiversity Information Facility. We produced P-A data by selecting ~ 1000 random locations and recorded the presence/absence of all species. We produced two P-O data sets. Full P-O set was produced by sampling the species in locations of true occurrences of species. Partial P-O was a subset of full P-O data set matching the size of the P-A data set. For each data set, we recorded the environmental variables at the same locations. We used CCA to evaluate the amount of variance in species composition explained by each variable. We evaluated the bias in the data set by calculating the deviation of average values of the environmental variables in sampled locations compared to the entire area. Results P-A and P-O data sets were similar in terms of the amount of variance explained by the different environmental variables. We found sizable environmental and spatial bias in the P-O data set, compared to the entire study area. Main conclusions Our results suggest that although P-O data from collections contain bias, the multitude of species, and thus the relatively large amount of information in the data, allow the use of P-O data for analysing environmental determinants of species composition.
4124751|The Global Strategy for Plant Conservation (GSPC) aims to protect 50% of the most important areas for plant diversity by 2010. This study selects sets of 1-degree grid cells for 37 sub-Saharan African countries on the basis of a large database of plant species distributions. We use two reserve selection algorithms that attempt to satisfy two of the criteria set by the GSPC. The grid cells selected as important plant cells (IPCs) are compared between algorithms and in terms of country and continental rankings between cells. The conservation value of the selected grid cells are then considered in relation to their future species complement given the predicted climate change in three future periods (2025, 2055, and 2085). This analysis uses predicted climate suitability for individual species from a previous modelling exercise. We find that a country-by-country conservation approach is suitable for capturing most, but not all, continentally IPCs. The complementarity-based reserve selection algorithms suggest conservation of a similar set of grid cells, suggesting that areas of high plant diversity and rarity may be well protected by a single pattern of conservation activity. Although climatic conditions are predicted to deteriorate for many species under predicted climate change, the cells selected by the algorithms are less affected by climate change predictions than non-selected cells. For the plant species that maintain areas of climatic suitability in the future, the selected set will include cells with climate that is highly suitable for the species in the future. The selected cells are also predicted to conserve a large proportion of the species richness remaining across the continent under climate change, despite the network of cells being less optimal in terms of future predicted distributions. Limitations to the modelling are discussed in relation to the policy implications for those implementing the GSPC.
3877725|Population viability of the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) is threatened by small population sizes in scattered isolated habitat areas. Designing a conservation plan for protecting and connecting the fragmented habitat will improve the chances for survival of this endangered species. For such a plan, this study assessed the overall habitat suitability for the species in the Qionglai mountain range (Sichuan, China) using Landsat TM imagery acquired in 2001, geographical data, field surveys, and information acquired in previous researches. Results show that the habitat is separated by roads and rivers, as well as by human settlements and cropland areas, into four main habitat blocks. Overlapping these four habitat blocks with the current nature reserve network reveals that only 36% of the total habitat is protected within nature reserves. Thus, the current nature reserve network is failing to preserve essential habitat for dispersal and genetic exchange. In this study, five key areas and four linkage areas were identified and suggested as nature reserves and/or corridors. These areas, together with the six currently established nature reserves in the mountain range, will form a conservation unit for facilitating the exchange of giant panda individuals among previously isolated habitat blocks. Policies recently implemented by the Chinese government, including the Natural Forest Conservation Program (NFCP) and the Grain-to-Green Program (GTGP), could aid in the formation of such a conservation unit.
40800798|Aim The global extinction of a species typically represents the end point in a series of population extinctions, during which unique evolutionary history is lost at every stage. Insight into the process of extinction can provide the means to identify species at high risk, but the number of extinctions being identified languishes far behind true totals. More proactive ways of inferring extinction from limited data are required. Location Historic sightings, collections and specimen data from Australia and Asia. Method We used a technique called optimal linear estimation to analyse the sightings record of mammal and bird species of varying ecology, life history and population demography. The mammal species chosen were all considered regionally extinct in the literature, while the bird species chosen had all been highlighted as candidates for the new IUCN Red List category flag: Critically Endangered (Possibly Extinct). Results Nine of the ten mammal species were predicted to be probably extinct, but only two with 95% certainty. Seven of the ten bird species were predicted to be probably extinct, four with 95% certainty. Main conclusions Superficially, determining whether a species is extinct might seem a simple task, whereby we either find a species extant, or it is extinct. In reality, however, the task is much more complex. Techniques such as optimal linear estimation, in combination with other data sources, and knowledge of recording effort, may prove useful in inferring extinction across a variety of taxa but should not be used in isolation.
40604239|Aim Sustaining biological diversity requires the protection of the ecological, evolutionary and landscape-level processes that generate it. Here, we identify areas of high neoendemism in a global diversity hotspot, the California flora, using range size data and molecular-based estimates of taxon age. Location California, USA. Methods We compiled distribution and range size data for all plant taxa endemic to California and internal transcribed spacer (ITS)-based age estimates for 337 putative neoendemics (15% of the endemic flora). This information was combined to identify areas in the state with high proportions of young and restricted-range taxa. We overlaid the distribution of neoendemic hotspots on maps of currently protected lands and also explored correlations between our diversity measures and climate. Results The central coast of California, the Sierra Nevada and the San Bernardino Range contained endemics with the most restricted distributions on average, while areas in the Desert and Great Basin provinces found within the state were composed of the youngest neoendemics on average. Diversity measures that took age and range size into account shifted the estimate of highest endemic diversity in the state towards the Desert and Great Basin regions relative to simple counts of endemic species richness. Our diversity measures were poorly correlated with climate and topographic heterogeneity. Main conclusions Substantial portions of California with high levels of plant neoendemism fall outside of protected lands, indicating that additional action will be needed to preserve the geographic areas apparently associated with high rates of plant diversification. The neoendemic flora of the deserts appears particularly young in our analyses, which may reflect the relatively recent origin of desert environments within the state.
3696843|Resource selection functions (RSFs) are statistical models defined to be proportional to the probability of use of a resource unit. My objective with this review is to identify how RSFs can be used to unravel the influence of scale in habitat selection. In wildlife habitat studies, including radiotelemetry, RSFs can be estimated using a variety of statistical methods, all of which can be used to explore the role of scale. All RSFs are bounded by the resolution of data and the spatial extent of the study area, but also allow predictor covariates to be measured at a variety of scales. Conditional logistic regression permits designs (e.g. matched case) that relate the process of habitat selection to a limited domain of resource units that might better characterize what is truly 'available' to the animal. Scale influences the process of habitat selection, e.g. food resources are often selected at fine spatial scales, whereas landscape patterns at much larger scales typically influence the location of home ranges. Scale also influences appropriate sampling in many ways: (1) heterogeneity might be obliterated (transmutation) if resolution or grain size is too large, (2) variance of habitat characteristics might be undersampled if extent or domain is too small, (3) timing and duration of observations can influence RSF models, and (d) both spatial and temporal autocorrelations can vary directly with the intensity of sampling. Using RSFs, researchers can examine habitat selection at multiple scales, and predictive models that bridge scales can be estimated. Using Geographical Information Systems, predictor covariates in RSF models can be measured at different scales easily so that the predictive ability of models at alternative spatial and temporal domains can be explored by the investigator. Identification of the scale that best explains the data can be evaluated by comparing alternative models using information-theoretic metrics such as Akaike Information Criteria, and predictive capability of the models can be assessed using k-fold cross validation.
3246889|Richness and diversity of perennial plant species were evaluated in 17 Stipa tenacissima steppes along a degradation gradient in semiarid SE Spain. The main objective of the study was to evaluate the relative importance of historical human impacts, small-scale patch attributes and environmental factors as determinants of perennial plant species richness and diversity in S. tenacissima steppes, where vegetation is arranged as discrete plant patches inserted on a bare ground matrix. Partial least squares regression was used to determine the amount of variation in species richness and diversity that could be significantly explained by historical human impacts, patch attributes, and environmental factors together and separately. They explained up to 89% and 69% of the variation in species richness and diversity, respectively. In both cases, the predictive power of patch attributes models was higher than that of models consisting of abiotic characteristics and variables related to human impact, suggesting that patch attributes are the major determinants of species richness and diversity in semiarid S. tenacissima steppes. However, patch attributes alone are not enough to explain the observed variation in species richness and diversity. The area covered by late-successional sprouting shrubs and the distance between consecutive patches were the most influencing individual variables on species richness and diversity, respectively. The implications of these results for the management of S. tenacissima steppes are discussed.
40390763|Aim The invasion of natural communities by alien species represents a serious threat, but creates opportunities to learn about community functions. Neutral theory proposes that the niche concept may not be needed to explain the assemblage and diversity of natural communities, challenging the classical view of community ecology and generating a lasting debate. Biological invasions, when considered as natural experiments, can be used to contrast some of the predictions of neutral and classic niche theories. Location Global. Methods We use data from biological invasions as natural experiments to contrast some of the fundamental predictions of neutral theory. Results Some emerging patterns did not differ from neutral model expectations (e.g. the relationship between native and exotic species richness, invasibility of resource-rich habitats, and the relationship between propagule release and invasion success). Nevertheless, other patterns (e.g. experimental evidence of the relationship between diversity and susceptibility to invasion, the invasion of communities with a low resource availability, invasiveness related to species traits) contrasted with the predictions that can be inferred from neutral theory. Main conclusions Neutral theory correctly highlights the need to include randomness in models of community structure. Biological invasion patterns show that neutral forces are important in structuring natural communities, but the patterns differ from those inferred from a complete neutral model. For biodiversity-conservation purposes, the implications of accepting or not accepting neutral theory as a process-based theory are very important.
40930610|Aim Increasingly, ecologists are using evolutionary relationships to infer the mechanisms of community assembly. However, modern communities are being invaded by non-indigenous species. Since natives have been associated with one another through evolutionary time, the forces promoting character and niche divergence should be high. On the other hand, exotics have evolved elsewhere, meaning that conserved traits may be more important in their new ranges. Thus, co-occurrence over sufficient time-scales for reciprocal evolution may alter how phylogenetic relationships influence assembly. Here, we examined the phylogenetic structure of native and exotic plant communities across a large-scale gradient in species richness and asked whether local assemblages are composed of more or less closely related natives and exotics and whether phylogenetic turnover among plots and among sites across this gradient is driven by turnover in close or distant relatives differentially for natives and exotics. Location Central and northern California, USA. Methods We used data from 30 to 50 replicate plots at four sites and constructed a maximum likelihood molecular phylogeny using the genes: matK, rbcl, ITSl and 5.8s. We compared community-level measures of native and exotic phylogenetic diversity and among-plot phylobetadiversity. Results There were few exotic clades, but they tended to be widespread. Exotic species were phylogenetically clustered within communities and showed low phylogenetic turnover among communities. In contrast, the more species-rich native communities showed higher phylogenetic dispersion and turnover among sites. Main conclusions The assembly of native and exotic subcommunities appears to reflect the evolutionary histories of these species and suggests that shared traits drive exotic patterns while evolutionary differentiation drives native assembly. Current invasions appear to be causing phylogenetic homogenization at regional scales.
40604238|Aim To describe a general modelling framework for integrating multiple pattern -and process-related factors into biodiversity conservation assessments across whole landscapes. Location New South Wales (Australia), and world-wide. Methods The framework allows for a rich array of alternatives to the target-based model traditionally underpinning systematic conservation planning and consists of three broad modelling components. The first component models the future state (condition) of habitat across a landscape as a function of present state, current and projected pressures acting on this state, and any proposed, or implemented, management interventions. The second component uses this spatially explicit prediction of future habitat state to model the level of persistence expected for each of a set of surrogate biodiversity entities. The third component then integrates these individual expectations to estimate the overall level of persistence expected for biodiversity as a whole. Results Options are explored for tailoring implementation of the framework to suit planning processes varying markedly in purpose, and in availability of data, time, funding and expertise. The framework allows considerable flexibility in the nature of employed biodiversity surrogates (species-level, discrete or continuous community-level) and spatial data structures (polygonal planning units, or finescaled raster), the level of sophistication with which each of the three modelling components is implemented (from simple target-based assessment to complex process-based modelling approaches), and the forms of higher-level analysis supported (e. g. optimal plan development, priority mapping, interactive scenario evaluation). Main conclusions The described framework provides a logical, and highly flexible, foundation for integrating disparate pattern- and process-related factors into conservation assessments in dynamic, multiple-use landscapes.
4539961|Effective management of introduced species requires the early identification of species that pose a significant threat of becoming invasive. To better understand the invasive ecology of species in New England, USA, we compiled a character data set with which to compare non-native species that are known invaders to non-native species that are not currently known to be invasive. In contrast to previous biological trait-based models, we employed a Bayesian hierarchical analysis to identify sets of plant traits associated with invasiveness for each of three growth forms (vines, shrubs, and trees). The resulting models identify a suite of 'invasive traits' highlighting the ecology associated with invasiveness for each of three growth forms. The most effective predictors of invasiveness that emerged from our model were 'invasive elsewhere', 'fast growth rate', 'native latitudinal range', and 'growth form'. The contrast among growth forms was pronounced. For example, 'wind dispersal' was positively correlated with invasiveness in trees, but negatively correlated in shrubs and vines. The predictive model was able to correctly classify invasive plants 67% of the time (22/33), and non-invasive plants 95% of the time (204/215). A number of potential future invasive species in New England that deserve management consideration were identified.
3877733|Rapoport's rule applied to an elevation gradient predicts a positive correlation between elevation ranges and elevation. This is supposed to be caused by the increasing magnitude of the climatic extremes at higher elevations, and thus, it is deduced that species richness should decrease with increasing elevation. The distribution of 614 tree species was used to test Rapoport's elevational rule along a gradient from 100 to 4300 m a.s.l., in the Nepalese Himalaya. The relationship between species richness and elevation was analysed by using generalized linear models (GLM). Generalized additive models (GAM) were used to examine the relationship between elevational range and the elevational mid-point of a species along the gradient. The widest elevation ranges are observed at mid-elevations, and narrow elevation ranges are observed at both ends of the gradient. This does not support Rapoport's elevation rule, as proposed by Stevens. There is a peak in species richness between 900 and 1000 m, and not in the tropical lowland as projected by Rapoport's elevation rule.
40800784|Aim Over the past three decades, evidence has been growing that many Afro-Palaearctic migratory bird populations have suffered sustained and severe declines. As causes of these declines exist across both the breeding and nonbreeding season, identifying potential drivers of population change is complex. In order to explore the roles of changes in regional and local environmental conditions on population change, we examine spatial and temporal variation in population trajectories of one of Europe's most abundant Afro-Palaearctic summer migrants, the willow warbler, Phylloscopus trochilus. Location Britain and Ireland. Methods We use national survey data from Britain and Ireland (BBS: BTO/RSPB/JNCC Breeding Bird Survey and CBS: BWI/NPWS/Heritage Council Countryside Breeding Survey) from 1994 to 2006 to model the spatial and temporal variation in willow warbler population trends. Results Across Britain and Ireland, population trends follow a gradient from sharp declines in the south and east of England to shallow declines and/or slight increases in parts of north and west England, across Scotland and Ireland. Decreasing the spatial scale of analysis reveals variation in both the rate and spatial extent of population change within central England and the majority of Scotland. The rates of population change also vary temporally; declines in the south of England are shallower now than at the start of the time series, whereas populations further north in Britain have undergone periods of increase and decline. Main conclusion These patterns suggest that regional-scale drivers, such as changing climatic conditions, and local-scale processes, such as habitat change, are interacting to produce spatially variable population trends. We discuss the potential mechanisms underlying these interactions and the challenges in addressing such changes at scales relevant to migratory species.
4539906|The patterns in and the processes underlying the distribution of invertebrates among Southern Ocean islands and across vegetation types on these islands are reasonably well understood. However, few studies have examined the extent to which populations are genetically structured. Given that many sub-Antarctic islands experienced major glaciation and volcanic activity, it might be predicted that substantial population substructure and little genetic isolation-by-distance should characterize indigenous species. By contrast, substantially less population structure might be expected for introduced species. Here, we examine these predictions and their consequences for the conservation of diversity in the region. We do so by examining haplotype diversity based on mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I sequence data, from two indigenous (Cryptopygus antarcticus travei, Tullbergia bisetosa) and two introduced (Isotomurus cf. palustris, Ceratophysella denticulata) springtail species from Marion Island. We find considerable genetic substructure in the in-digenous species that is compatible with the geological and glacialogical history of the island. Moreover, by employing ecological techniques, we show that haplotype diversity is likely much higher than our sequenced samples suggest. No structure is found in the introduced species, with each being represented by a single haplotype only. This indicates that propagule pressure is not significant for these small animals unlike the situation for other, larger invasive species: a few individuals introduced once are likely to have initiated the invasion. These outcomes demonstrate that sampling must be more comprehensive if the population history of indigenous arthropods on these islands is to be comprehended, and that the risks of within- and among-island introductions are substantial. The latter means that, if biogeographical signal is to be retained in the region, great care must be taken to avoid inadvertent movement of indigenous species among and within islands. Thus, quarantine procedures should also focus on among-island movements.
3877726|Birds are integral to many environmental monitoring schemes. However, there has been little research on the ecological basis of utilizing bird species as indicators of their respective communities and habitats. We used point counts to survey 72 landbird species, 16 of conservation concern, in the Dadia Nature Reserve, Greece, in order to understand the ecology of bird diversity patterns, analyse community composition, identify species characteristic of major vegetation types, and improve long-term management and monitoring protocols. We sampled 36 sites representing 21 vegetation types. Highly heterogeneous sites were the most species rich and rural mosaics (small fields and pastures of low intensity land use, separated by thick hedgerows and tree lines) were twice as rich as intensified crop monocultures. Using multivariate analysis, we found that vegetation cover and height affected the composition of the avifauna. Twenty-one predefined vegetation categories clustered into eight distinct bird habitat types: field crops, rural mosaics, mosaic sites, poplar trees, broadleaved woods, pinewoods, shrubs, and heaths. Ten bird species were highly characteristic of the main bird habitat types in the study area. Our results emphasize the importance of conserving rural mosaics, hedgerows, and openings within forests for landbird conservation in the Mediterranean countryside. We also provide evidence in support of maintaining horizontal heterogeneity at a local scale. Finally, we suggest that monitoring populations of certain indicator bird species can be a cost-effective and efficient way to monitor the state and habitat quality of the entire landbird community, thereby integrating the knowledge of community structure into conservation decision-making.
3246685|Using the unusually well-documented butterfly fauna of Davis, Yolo County, California, it is shown that the mainly native species commonly observed in gardens breed mostly or entirely on alien plants, especially naturalized weeds. Over 40% of the fauna has no known native hosts in the urban-suburban environment. Were certain alien weeds to be eradicated or their abundance greatly reduced, the urban-suburban butterfly fauna would disappear. This might be regarded as an unfortunate, and perhaps intolerable, side-effect of such programs.
2673318|Allozyme electrophoresis was used to investigate the structure of genetic variation in the rhizomatous coastal sedge, Carex arenaria, throughout its European range from the SW Iberian peninsula to the Baltic region. Material was sampled from 77 sites in five geographic regions. Nine of the 13 investigated loci were polymorphic in the total material and there were interregional differences in the number of polymorphic loci per site and the percentage of variable sites. In the Scandinavia/Baltic region only 61% of the sites contained at least one locus with more than one allele, whereas all the British and SW Iberian sites were variable. There was a general tendency for the regional frequencies of the less common alleles at individual loci to decline from SW to NE. The mean (over loci and sites) within-site gene diversity (H<sub>site</sub>) was 0.064 (in calculations based on the number of observed multilocus allozyme genotypes within each sampling site). Although there was considerable variation between geographically adjacent sites, within-site diversity showed a general decrease from SW to NE in Europe. There were significant differences in within-region gene diversity (H<sub>reg</sub>) for the four most variable loci between the five regions. H<sub>reg</sub> generally decreased from SW to NE Europe and most loci showed the highest diversity in the SW Iberian peninsula and the Bay of Biscay regions. The mean (over loci) gene diversity in the total material (H<sub>tot</sub>) was 0.070 and the levels of diversity in Carex arenaria are substantially lower than is usual in rhizomatous sedges. The within-site, between-site and between-regional components of the total diversity were 92.4%, 2.5% and 5.1%, respectively. The low levels of overall gene diversity in C. arenaria and the successive decrease in diversity from SW to NE are interpreted in terms of the species' history of post-glacial spread into northern Europe. Despite the overall northwards decrease in diversity, the widespread occurrence of less common alleles and the lack of regional deviations from Hardy-Weinberg genotype frequency expectations suggest that C. arenaria is not predominantly self-fertilized.
4539926|Predictive species distribution modelling (SDM) has become an essential tool in biodiversity conservation and management. The choice of grain size (resolution) of environmental layers used in modelling is one important factor that may affect predictions. We applied 10 distinct modelling techniques to presence-only data for 50 species in five different regions, to test whether: (1) a 10-fold coarsening of resolution affects predictive performance of SDMs, and (2) any observed effects are dependent on the type of region, modelling technique, or species considered. Results show that a 10 times change in grain size does not severely affect predictions from species distribution models. The overall trend is towards degradation of model performance, but improvement can also be observed. Changing grain size does not equally affect models across regions, techniques, and species types. The strongest effect is on regions and species types, with tree species in the data sets (regions) with highest locational accuracy being most affected. Changing grain size had little influence on the ranking of techniques: boosted regression trees remain best at both resolutions. The number of occurrences used for model training had an important effect, with larger sample sizes resulting in better models, which tended to be more sensitive to grain. Effect of grain change was only noticeable for models reaching sufficient performance and/or with initial data that have an intrinsic error smaller than the coarser grain size.
40800803|Aim There is debate over whether alien plants necessarily alter the communities they invade or can coexist with native species without discernable impacts. We followed the fate of montane plant communities in response to the experimental sowing of the alien weed Hieracium lepidulum, looking for changes in plant community composition and structure over 6 years. Location Craigieburn Range, New Zealand. Methods We used a replicated randomised block design, with 30 x 30 cm plots (n -756) subdivided into 5 x 5 cm cells to examine and compare the effects of H. lepidulum at 0.09 m (plot) and 0.0025 m (cell) scales. Plots were sown with between 0 and 15,625 lepidulum seeds in 2003, forming gradients of invader density and cover. Measurements comprised community richness, evenness and diversity along with H. lepidulum density and cover at both scales. The relationships between the invader and local community attributes were modelled using hierarchical mixed-effect models. Results Plant communities differed in the extent to which they became invaded, with H. lepidulum cover in the plots ranging from 0% to 52%, with a mean of only 1.89%. Plot species richness increased from 2003 to 2009, with a component of this increase (+ 0.002 species per year) associated with increasing H. lepidulum density. Other relationships between the plant community and H. lepidulum were generally non-significant. Main conclusions In these montane plant communities, it appears H. lepidulum coexists with the native community with no measurable negative effects after 6 years on species richness, evenness or diversity, even where density and cover of the invader are highest. We suggest H. lepidulum has persisted preferentially at those sites with abiotic conditions sufficient to support a species-rich assemblage.
41242831|Aim We explored morphological and ecophysiological traits that enable invasive Australian acacias to compete with native species for resources (light, water and nutrients) necessary to support the substantial growth associated with successful invasions. Location Global. Results Invasive Australian acacias grow large and seed prolifically in invaded regions. The greater capacity for vegetative growth is underpinned by their ability to acquire and efficiently use resources in non-native habitats. Key biological traits that enhance acquisition include (1) rapid and substantial allocation to root mass (up to 6-fold more than co-occurring native species) directed towards deep roots (at least 50% longer than those of natives) and to extensive shallow root networks; (2) heteroblasty, in most species, conferring high relative growth rates as bipinnate seedlings but long-lived, nutrient-conserving phyllodes as adults and (3) strong N-fixation abilities. Main conclusions The ecophysiological traits that govern the competitive interaction of invasive Australian acacias with native species are an important component of the recognized suite of factors including introduction history, human use and enemy release that combine to produce successful invasions. Traits interact to give Australian acacias competitive advantage over many native species. One such interaction is that of N fixation, which when coupled with slow decomposition of sclerophyllous phyllodes results in alteration of soil nutrient cycling. The lasting legacy of soil N-enrichment hinders the competitive ability of native species and further enhances invasions. The importance of edaphic factors and competitive interactions in determining invasive success should be considered in predictive modelling of species distributions.
20172018|A fundamental goal of ecology is to understand whether ecological communities are structured according to general assembly rules or are essentially dictated by random processes. In the context of fragmentation, understanding assembly patterns and their mechanistic basis also has important implications for conservation. Using distribution data of 20 bat species collected on 11 islands in Gatn Lake, Panama, we tested for non-randomness in presence-absence matrices with respect to nestedness and negative species co-occurrence. We examined the causal basis for the observed patterns and conducted separate analyses for the entire assemblage and for various species submatrices reflecting differences in species' trophic position and mobility. Furthermore, we explored the influence of weighting factors (area, isolation, abundance) on co-occurrence analyses. Unweighted analyses revealed a significant negative co-occurrence pattern for the entire assemblage and for phytophagous bats alone. Weighting analyses by isolation retained a pattern of species segregation for the whole assemblage but nullified the non-random structure for phytophagous bats and suggested negative associations for animalivores and species with low mobility. Area- and abundance-weighted analyses always indicated random structuring. Bat distributions followed a nested subset structure across islands, regardless of whether all species or different submatrices were analysed. Nestedness was in all cases unrelated to island area but weakly correlated with island isolation for incidence matrices of all species, phytophagous bats, and mobile species. Overall, evidence for negative interspecific interactions indicative of competitive effects was weak, corroborating previous studies based on ecomorphological analyses. Our findings indicate that bat assemblages on our study islands are most strongly shaped by isolation effects and species' differential movement and colonization ability. From a conservation viewpoint this suggests that even in systems with high fragment--matrix contrast, a purely area-based approach may be inadequate, and structural and functional connectivity among patches are important to consider in reserve planning.
40930618|Aim Asian elephants, Elephas maximus, are threatened throughout their range by a combination of logging, large scale forest conversion and conflict with humans. We investigate which environmental factors, both biotic and abiotic, constrain the current distribution of elephants. A spatially explicit habitat model is constructed to find core areas for conservation and to assess current threats. Location Ulu Masen Ecosystem in the province of Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam on the island of Sumatra, Indonesia. Methods A stratified survey was conducted at 12 sites (300 transects) to establish the presence of elephants. Presence records formed the basis to model potential habitat use. Ecological niche factor analysis (ENFA) is used to describe their niche and to identify key factors shaping elephant distribution. An initial niche model was constructed to describe elephant niche structure, and a second model focused on identifying core areas only. To assess the threat of habitat encroachment, overlap between the elephants' optimal niche and the occurrence of forest encroachment is computed. Results Elephants were recorded throughout the study area from sea level to 1600 m a.s.l. The results show that the elephant niche and consequently habitat use markedly deviates from the available environment. Elephant presence was positively related to forest cover and vegetation productivity, and elephants were largely confined to valleys. A spatially explicit model showed that elephants mainly utilize forest edges. Forest encroachment occurs throughout the elephants range and was found within 80% of the elephants' ecological niche. Main conclusions In contrast to general opinion, elephant distribution proved to be weakly constrained by altitude, possibly because of movement routes running through mountainous areas. Elephants were often found to occupy habitat patches in and near human-dominated areas. This pattern is believed to reflect the displacement of elephants from their former habitat.
2673330|The insular distribution of distinctive substrates, such as outcrops of serpentine rock, may either promote plant diversity by enhancing opportunities for speciation or reduce diversity by increasing rates of extinction. To examine the relationship between diversity and the spatial structure of habitats, we studied large-scale patterns of diversity in the flora of serpentine in California. We used multiple linear regressions on geographical information system (GIS)-derived data for 85 subregions of the state to analyse the climatic and spatial correlates of plant species richness. The diversity of plants endemic to serpentine declined from north to south and from the coast inland, in association with decreasing rainfall; the same trends were seen in the total flora, but the trends were stronger in serpentine endemics. Diversity of serpentine endemics increased with the area of serpentine and decreased with the mean isolation of serpentine patches in a subregion. The diversity of endemics was not correlated with the number of serpentine patches or their mean perimeter-to-area ratio. We conclude that patchiness in this terrestrial habitat does not appear to promote diversity, even at the large spatial scale associated with speciation and endemism
3696870| Four to 10 years after the successful eradication of the Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus) from three islands of the Sept-les Archipelago and one in the Molne Archipelago (Brittany, France), the abundance index of the lesser white-toothed shrew (Crocidura suaveolens) increased by factors of 7-25, depending on the island and the year. Moreover, in the same region, the abundance index of the greater white-toothed shrew (Crocidura russula) on Tom Island increased by factors of 9 and 17, one and two years after the Norway rat eradication, respectively. The maximum variation of the abundance index for the lesser white-toothed shrew during seven years on the rat-free island of Bniguet in the same region was a factor of only 2.5. Moreover, the distribution of the lesser white-toothed shrew on Bono island, restricted before the eradication to two steep areas with few rats, increased and encompassed virtually the entire island four years after rats disappeared. These results suggest strong detrimental interactions between the introduced Norway rat and the two Crocidura shrew species on temperate oceanic islands. However, our data do not indicate the ecological mechanisms at work in these interactions. The main reason this shrew recovery was detected after rat eradication was the inclusion in the eradication protocol of the evaluation of impacts on the local biota of eliminating alien species. The rigor of the sampling procedure was also crucial to this discovery. This example demonstrates that an eradication operation can be extremely useful for both scientists and managers if it is planned as a research project. 
40800807|Aim This study aimed to quantify changes in fire severity resulting from the invasion of Australia's tropical savannas by the African grass Andropogon gayanus Kunth. (gamba grass). Location Mesic savannas of the Northern Territory, Australia. Method Byram's fire-line intensity (I f ), fuel load and architecture, and two postfire indicators of fire intensity - scorch height (SH) and char height (CH) of woody vegetation - were determined for fires in native grass savanna and A. gayanus invaded savanna. Leaf scorch is the height at which the fire's radiant heat browns leaf tissue, and leaf char is the height that radiant heat blackens or consumes leaf tissue and provides an indirect measure of flame height. These data, and 5 years of similar data collected from the Kapalga Fire Project in Kakadu National Park, were used to develop empirical relationships between I f and the post-fire indices of fire intensity. Results A relationship between A. gayanus I f and SH could not be developed because complete canopy scorch occurred in most A. gayanus fires, even at low I f. In contrast, A. gayanus I f was strongly correlated with CH. This empirical relationship was substantially different from that for native grass fires. For a given lp there was a significantly greater CH in invaded sites. This increase in radiant heat is attributable to the increased biomass (mean 3.6 t ha in native grasses compared to 11.6 t ha in A. gayanus) and height (approximately 0.5 m in native grasses compared to 4 m in A. gayanus) of the standing fine fuel. Main conclusion Andropogon gayanus invasion resulted in substantial changes in fire behaviour. This has important regional implications owing to the current (10,000-15,000 km) and predicted (380,000 km) area of invasion and the negative consequences for the native savanna biota that has evolved with frequent but relatively low-intensity fire.
2673414|A cenogram is a rank-ordered body size distribution of non-predatory terrestrial mammal species within a community. Studies of cenograms for modern faunas have shown that certain quantifiable attributes of cenograms are correlated with environmental variables such as rainfall and vegetation structure. Based on these correlations, cenograms of fossil communities have been used to infer palaeoenvironments and palaeoenvironmental variables. The present study uses cenogram statistics to interpret palaeoenvironmental conditions for eight Cenozoic South American mammal faunas, ranging from Eocene to Pleistocene in age. Body sizes for fossil taxa were taken either from the literature or were estimated using regressions of body size on molar length (or femoral bicondylar width) for modern mammals. Cenogram statistics are calculated for the eight fossil faunas and compared to similar statistics calculated for 16 modern South American mammal faunas, allowing palaeoenvironmental interpretations to be made. The palaeoenvironmental interpretations based on cenogram analyses sometimes support and sometimes contradict interpretations based on herbivore craniodental morphology (e.g. levels of hypsodonty). Simulations of expected errors in body size estimates for fossil taxa suggest that the discrepancies do not result primarily from erroneous body size estimates. It is possible that some of the incongruity in interpretations results from certain non-analogue attributes of South American faunas during much of the Cenozoic (e.g. the relatively depauperate mammalian predator diversity prior to the Great American Biotic Interchange).
20171983|This paper compares the rate of invasion of Heracleum mantegazzianum (Apiaceae), a Caucasian species invading Europe, at three spatial scales (continental, regional, and local). The rate of invasion was evaluated using inclusion curves, by plotting the cumulative number of invaded countries against time on the continental scale of Europe, number of occupied grid cells at the regional scale of the Czech Republic, and invaded area inferred from a series of aerial photographs taken at the local scale over a period of 49 years in the Slavkovk les region, Czech Republic. Time of 50% inclusion (with 95% confidence intervals, CI) of invaded countries, occupied grid cells, and invaded area was assessed. The invasion was slowest at the continental scale (62 years, CI = 53-70) and did not differ significantly between regional (16 years, CI = 10-20) and local (22 years, CI = 19-24) scales. Our results indicate that there are two different mechanisms of spread acting together in this system, namely human influences and natural spread, and the relative influence of these mechanisms appears to change in an inverse proportion from the largest to the smallest scale. At the local scale, under suitable habitat conditions, the process is driven by biological traits of the species related to dispersal. At the continental and regional scales, humans played a crucial role in the invasion of H. mantegazzianum by planting it as a garden ornamental. At these scales, human-mediated dispersal seems to have been the major driver of spread, responsible for creating dispersal foci in the initial phases of invasion. Species traits played an important role in local spread, resulting in the colonization of new sites.
41242791|Aim Fire affects the structure and dynamics of ecosystems world-wide, over long time periods (decades and centuries) and at large spatial scales (landscapes and regions). A pressing challenge for ecologists is to develop models that explain and predict faunal responses to fire at broad temporal and spatial scales. We used a 105-year post-fire chronosequence to investigate small mammal responses to fire across an extensive area of 'tree mallee' (i.e. vegetation characterized by small multi-stemmed eucalypts). Location The Murray Mallee region (104,000 km) of semi-arid Australia. Methods First, we surveyed small mammals at 260 sites and explored the fire responses of four species using nonlinear regression models. Second, we assessed the predictive accuracy of models using cross-validation and by testing with independent data. Third, we examined our results in relation to an influential model of animal succession, the habitat accommodation model. Results Two of four study species showed a clear response to fire history. The distribution of the Mallee Ningaui Ningaui yvonneae, a carnivorous marsupial, was strongly associated with mature vegetation characterized by its cover of hummock grass. The occurrence of breeding females was predicted to increase up to 40-105 years post-fire, highlighting the extensive time periods over which small mammal populations may be affected by fire. Evaluation of models for N. yvonneae demonstrated that accurate predictions of species occurrence can be made from fire history and vegetation data, across large geographical areas. The introduced House Mouse Mus domesticus was the only species positively associated with recently burnt vegetation. Main conclusions Understanding the impact of fire over long time periods will benefit ecological and conservation management. In this example, tracts of longunburnt mallee vegetation were identified as important habitat for a fire-sensitive native mammal. Small mammal responses to fire can be predicted accurately at broad spatial scales; however, a conceptual model of post-fire change in community structure developed in temperate Australia is not, on its own, sufficient for small mammals in semi-arid systems.
20171973|Knowing the origin of invasive taxa, whether multiple introductions have occurred, and levels of genetic variation relative to the native range, is vital to conducting rigorous tests of hypotheses to explain biological invasions. We explore phylogeographical relationships of two Eurasian knapweed taxa that are invasive in North America, Centaurea diffusa and C. stoebe micranthos (Asteraceae), using chloroplast DNA intron sequences. We also gathered data from C. stoebe stoebe, hybrids between C. diffusa and C. stoebe stoebe (C. xpsammogena), and three other species in the genus. We sequenced 213 individuals from Eurasia and North America, and found 22 haplotypes. Centaurea diffusa has lower haplotype diversity and allelic richness in the introduced range relative to the native range. Even with reduced variation, the data suggest at least two introductions of C. diffusa. There is a trend towards reduced variation in C. stoebe micranthos, but it is not significant. One of the haplotypes found in North American C. stoebe micranthos matches a haplotype from a taxon other than C. stoebe micranthos in Europe. This suggests introgression of the chloroplast between taxa, or possibly the invasion of another Centaurea taxon into North America. Additionally, C. diffusa, C. stoebe micranthos, and C. stoebe stoebe share several haplotypes, including their most common haplotype. This suggests ongoing hybridization between the species or incomplete segregation. These data can guide further exploration for the origins of these species, and point out locations within the introduced range with unique and diverse genetic makeup.
3246816|Genetic analyses are useful tools for reconstructing glacial distribution patterns and postglacial expansion corridors. However, little information is available about the latter. We reconstruct the expansion corridors of the butterfly Polyommatus coridon from its glacial refugium to the northern edge of its current distribution by comparing populations from southern Lower Saxony (central Germany) to other existing genetic data sets. The populations from Lower Saxony clearly belonged to a western lineage that expanded postglacially from the Adriatic-Mediterranean region. They form part of a southern German group passing through the Burgundian Gap. In the southern German group, populations belong to a western subgroup. Therefore, expansion followed the Rhine valley and through Hesse, finally reaching southern Lower Saxony and western Thuringia in central Germany. Thus, we present a complete colonization route from the glacial refugium to the northern distribution range of P. coridon. Such data are useful for understanding the biogeographic structure and migration corridors for other mobile Mediterranean species.
40390740|Aim Researchers measuring beta diversity have rarely concerned themselves with the problems of how complete the species lists of studied communities are, and of how the varying degrees of completeness can actually change estimates of beta diversity. No comprehensive assessment has been made regarding the behaviour of most beta diversity indices when applied to incomplete samples, a situation which is more common than usually recognized. Our objective was to assess the behaviour and robustness of a number of beta diversity measures for incidence data from undersampled communities. Location Mainland Portugal and the Azorean archipelago (North Atlantic). Methods Data from intensive sampling of spiders in mainland Portugal and arthropods in Azores were collected. We examined the properties of 15 beta diversity measures developed for incidence data. We simulated varying degrees of completeness, whereas computing beta diversity for selected pairs of samples. The robustness of these beta diversity accumulation curves was assessed for the purpose of finding the best measures for undersampled communities. Results The Harrison et al  and the Williams  are particularly robust to undersampling. These measures are also insensitive to differences of alpha diversity (species richness) between communities, and therefore to nestedness. Colwell & Coddington
3246747|Lygodium microphyllum (Cav.) R. Br. (Lygodiaceae) is a climbing fern that is becoming one of the worst non-indigenous invasive plant species in the greater Everglades ecosystem of southern Florida, USA. We examined the fern across a range of scales including the seasonality of its spore production, its height growth within infested sites and its community ecology. These attributes, combined with a series of aerial transects that identified L. microphyllum infestations across southern Florida, were used to develop a spatial model to predict its future spread in the Everglades landscape. The model shows that this non-indigenous invader could become widely established throughout the Everglades by 2014. Although several factors, such as release from natural enemies, may help explain the invasion success of L. microphyllum, it appears likely that traits related to its reproduction, such as propagule pressure, and its ability to grow in a low-light understorey environment, may be among the most important in explaining its ability to invade both disturbed and undisturbed areas far from source populations.
4124755| The breeding avifauna of 25 woodland fragments (0.85-280 ha) was studied between 1996 and 2004 in Crdoba, Argentina. A distinctive feature of the avifauna of the fragments studied is the low area requirement of most of the species. Of the 54 woodland species recorded, 32 (59.3%) require c. 1 ha and 43 (79.6%) needed no more than 3 ha. Also noticeable is the relatively high number of individuals of most of the species. Both characteristics suggest a good tolerance to fragmentation. However, nine species (16.7%), the area-sensitive species, need fragments of 80 ha or larger. Moreover, eight resident species have apparently become extinct in the fragments that were studied, including the five large species that originally inhabited the area. Proportional odds and log linear models were fitted to relate the minimum area requirements of these species to various ecological characteristics (body size, diet, habitat use, migratory status, and nest type). Closed nesters, resident, woodland exterior, and medium-size species were the groups requiring larger areas. No apparent pattern was observed between area requirements and diet. A recent law prohibits woodland removal, which is a positive step towards the conservation of the fragments. The results suggest that as long as the present amount of woodland is maintained, the situation of the avifauna of the fragments is relatively secure, at least in the short term. 
3877712|Until now, analytical studies on European urban floras have mostly concentrated on the central and north-western parts of the continent. In this paper, factors determining species richness of urban flora were studied for the city of Rome, Italy, based on a comprehensive floristic survey carried out between 1985 and 1994, and updated in 2005. All species were recorded in grid cells of
3696910|Plant invasions have been attracting increasing attention from ecologists because of their worldwide environmental impacts and huge economic costs. Research on the characteristics of the recipient regions is essential for understanding the process of plant invasion. However, few previous studies on invasibility of habitats include social factors, although human activities are critical in the process of plant invasion. China is a vast country with high plant species diversity and a long history of introduction of exotic plant species and is particularly vulnerable to invasive plant species. Alien plant species are widespread in the country. Therefore, the study of invasive plants in China is urgent in practice and theoretically important for developing invasion ecology. For the present study, 126 species were selected to represent the major invasive plant species in China. We then collected data on their species richness in 31 provincial administrative units of China and performed Spearman rank correlations between species richness and possible natural and socio-economic factors. We found that socio-economic factors, such as human density and GDP, correlated positively with the species richness of invasive plants in China. In conjunction with the natural and socio-economic correlations in the study of regional distribution pattern of the major invasive plants, we discussed the factors influencing the regional distribution pattern of the major invasive plants in China. We suggest that native plant species richness was mainly determined by the natural conditions of the regions, while invasive species richness was influenced by natural conditions and human disturbance together.
2999830|In spring 1996 Cynthia cardui (L.) migrated northwards from Africa across Europe in vast numbers. In that year, and for a number of years previously, counts of butterflies have been made as part of monitoring schemes in Britain, The Netherlands, Flanders in Belgium, Catalonia in Spain and in Finland. We report and integrate the results for C. cardui from these schemes. The evidence indicates that Europe is effectively recolonised each year from the south. Strong correlations between annual abundance in all countries suggest that abundance across Europe is largely determined by the size of the spring migrations. In Spain immigration in spring and early summer is usually large, but subsequently numbers are low, indicating poor breeding success. The seasonal pattern in northern Europe shows that, typically (and especially clearly in 1996), there is a spring peak of immigrants in early June and a second, much larger, peak, assumed to be the progeny of the immigrants, in late summer. Although a return south in the autumn is likely, on evolutionary grounds, there is little evidence for such a return in the monitoring data.
41242839|Aim The biophysical impacts of invasive Australian acacias and their effects on ecosystem services are explored and used to develop a framework for improved restoration practices. Location South Africa, Portugal and Chile. Methods A conceptual model of ecosystem responses to the increasing severity (density and duration) of invasions was developed from the literature and our knowledge of how these impacts affect options for restoration. Case studies are used to identify similarities and differences between three regions severely affected by invasions of Australian acacias: Acacia dealbata in Chile, Acacia longifolia in Portugal and Acacia saligna in South Africa. Results Australian acacias have a wide range of impacts on ecosystems that increase with time and disturbance, transform ecosystems and alter and reduce ecosystem service delivery. A shared trait is the accumulation of massive seed banks, which enables them to become dominant after disturbances. Ecosystem trajectories and recovery potential suggest that there are important thresholds in ecosystem state and resilience. When these are crossed, options for restoration are radically altered; in many cases, autogenic (self-driven and self-sustaining) recovery to a pre-invasion condition is inhibited, necessitating active intervention to restore composition and function. Main conclusions The conceptual model demonstrates the degree, nature and reversibility of ecosystem degradation and identifies key actions needed to restore ecosystems to desired states. Control and restoration operations, particularly active restoration, require substantial short- to medium-term investments, which can reduce losses of biodiversity and ecosystem services, and the costs to society in the long term. Increasing restoration effectiveness will require further research into linkages between impacts and restoration. This research should involve scientists, practitioners and managers engaged in invasive plant control and restoration programmes, together with society as both the investors in, and beneficiaries of, more effective restoration.
3246742|Little is known about the traits and mechanisms that determine whether or not a species will be invasive. Invasive species are those that establish and spread after being introduced to a novel habitat. A number of previous studies have attempted to correlate specific plant traits with invasiveness. However, many such studies may be flawed because they fail to account for shared evolutionary history or fail to measure performance directly. It is also clear that performance is context dependent. Thus, an approach that corrects for relatedness and incorporates multiple experimental conditions will provide additional information on performance traits of invasive species. I use this approach with two or three pairs of invasive and closely related non-invasive species of Commelinaceae grown over experimental gradients of nutrient and water availability. Invasive species have been introduced, established, and spread outside their native range; non-invasive species have been introduced, possibly (but not necessarily) established, but are not known to have spread outside their native range. The invasive species had higher relative growth rates (RGR) than non-invasive congeners at high nutrient availabilities, but did not differ from non-invasive species at low nutrient availabilities. This is consistent with a strategy where these particular invasive species are able to rapidly use available resources. Relative growth rates were also higher for two out of three invasive species across a water availability gradient, but RGR did not differ in plasticity between the invasive and non-invasive species. This suggests that nutrient addition, but not changes in water availability, might favour invasion of dayflowers. This approach is novel in comparing multiple pairs of invasive and non-invasive congeners across multiple experimental conditions and allows evaluation of the robustness of performance differences. It also controls for some of the effects of relatedness that might confound multispecies comparisons.
41058178|Aim To examine whether the tree flora of the Atlantic forest of northeastern Brazil has experienced detectable taxonomic homogenization via the proliferation of native pioneer species in response to habitat loss and fragmentation. Location Biotic homogenization (BH) was examined across the Atlantic forest of northeast Brazil, i.e. a 56,000 km 2 piece of tropical forest and a distinct centre of species endemism in South America. Methods We assessed a dataset consisting of 5122 tree records and compared the similarity of tree floras from 12 semi-natural sub-regions of the Atlantic forest between two time periods: pre-1980 (plant records between 1902 and 1980), and post-1980 (between 1981 and 2006). To understand the mechanisms leading to BH (1) tree floras were ordered (via non-metric multidimensional scaling -NMDS) by date (pre/post 1980) based on species occurrence and frequency, (2) NMDS axes were regressed against the proportion of those species that increased their occurrence post-1980 (i. e. the winner species), and (3) patterns of geographic distribution and frequency of particular life-history traits were examined across winner species and a control group. Results Tree floras across the Atlantic forest became c. 20-40% more similar to each other post-1980, but patterns of species similarity were also influenced by between-plot geographical distance. NMDS ordination clearly segregated pre-and post-1980 floras with a clear signal of floristic convergence. Furthermore, winner tree species were largely composed of short-lived and small-seeded pioneer species that exhibit wide geographic distributions. Main conclusions Our results suggest that tropical forest biotas are susceptible to taxonomic homogenization (i.e. increasing levels of similarity) in the context of severe human-disturbance via the proliferation of particular groups of native species comprised mainly by ecologically-plastic, generalist species. We are thus extending the concept of homogenization to address and highlight a pervasive biological shift in the structure of tropical forest communities currently taking place across hyper-fragmented landscapes.
41058176|Aim Urbanization is a dominant demographic trend throughout the world that involves massive habitat alterations. Understanding how urbanization affects biota is a crucial prerequisite for development and application of effective species conservation programmes. Our study focuses on Neotropical high flying aerial insectivorous bats, an ecologically important, but so far seriously understudied group of vertebrates. Location Panama. Methods Using acoustic monitoring, we assessed and compared species occurrence, composition and activity of aerial insectivorous bats at three site categories located on the isthmus in Panama: forest, urban areas and a foresttown interface. Results In 2 years of field work, we recorded 44,744 bat passes over the microphone and identified a total of 25 aerial insectivorous bat species. Species richness was highest in the forest, decreased towards the forest-town interface and was lowest at the urban sites, while dominance (Berger-Parker-Index) increased from the forest to the urban sites. Overall, general bat activity (passes min) was highest at the forest-town interface and lowest at the urban sites. Multivariate analysis suggests compositional differences in species occurrence and activity among site categories with mainly molossid species occurring in urban areas. Main conclusions Our results clearly demonstrate species-specific differences between high flying aerial insectivorous bats concerning their adaptability and vulnerability to urban areas. Our results suggest that a suite of morphological traits including species mobility determine persistence of aerial insectivorous species in cities. Our results underline the necessity for detailed assessments of species-specific habitat requirements and dynamics of species occurrence and activity over time to develop meaningful conservation tools targeted at aerial insectivorous bats.
3246834|Available data on species distributions and endemicity were compiled and examined for 11 groups of South African marine invertebrates (2533 species). For five groups species richness adhered to a well-documented pattern, increasing from west to east, but for the other groups species richness was highest along the south coast. Endemicity was generally highest along the south coast, and lowest along the east coast. The data base was then analysed using several types of complementarity analyses, each producing a minimum set of potential reserve areas, which cumulatively represent all invertebrate species analysed. Approaches based solely on rarity, species richness and endemicity demonstrated individual biases, suggesting a need to combine all three interests. Combining the three techniques produced similar results to the individual analyses, showing conservation priorities to be highest along the east coast. Specifically, the areas of Port Elizabeth and Durban were ranked high in all analyses. Consistently, a total of 16 sites was necessary to represent all species analysed. Comparisons with similar analyses on fish and seaweeds revealed similar findings. Existing invertebrate records were shown to be biased towards centres of high sampling activity, demonstrating a need of future sampling attention in underrepresented areas.
2673355|In western North America, the alien Elaeagnus angustifolia L. invades riparian habitats usually dominated by pioneer woody species such as Populus deltoides Marshall ssp. monilifera (Aiton) Eckenwalder. We conducted manipulative field experiments to compare the importance of physical disturbance and granivory for seedling establishment of these two species. We planted seeds of both species in disturbed and undisturbed study plots, and used exclosures, seed dish trials and live-trapping to assess the role of granivory. Seedling establishment of both species was increased by physical disturbance and seeds of both species were subject to granivory. However, the relative importance of these two factors differed between species. For P. deltoides, lack of physical disturbance prevented seedling establishment in uncleared subplots, but granivory did not prevent seedling establishment outside of exclosures. For E. angustifolia, granivory prevented seedling establishment outside of exclosures, but lack of physical disturbance did not prevent establishment in uncleared subplots. The lesser dependence on disturbance may enable E. angustifolia to invade areas characterized by low levels of fluvial disturbance, such as floodplains along regulated rivers, where P. deltoides recruitment does not occur. Populations of granivorous rodents may affect the susceptibility of riparian ecosystems to invasion by E. angustifolia.
20532077|Aim: To explore the causal factors leading to a significant Small Island Effect (SIE), that is, the absence of the commonly found species--area relationships below an island size, on the terrestrial isopod communities from a large number of islands. Location: Ninety islands of the Aegean Sea (Greece). Methods: The detection of a significant SIE is assessed through the application of all three methods available in the literature. Species are divided into generalists and specialists. We tested if the minimum area and the area range of each species' occurrences differ between generalists and specialists. Next, we searched for differences in the ratios of specialists to generalists above and below the SIE threshold, and tested their cumulative ratios when islands are arranged according to increasing area, altitude or habitat diversity in order to identify the threshold where they become statistically indistinguishable from the ratio of the total set of islands. Results: Our results indicate a strong effect of habitat availability on the SIE. Communities of islands within the SIE range, host a higher percentage of generalists. An analysis of the specific habitat requirements shows that, for isopods, the crucial factor is the lack of habitats related to inland waters from small islands. Main conclusions: The distribution of habitats on islands of different size is of major importance for the occurrence of a SIE. The relative representation of specialist and generalist species on islands of different size plays an important role in shaping SIE-related patterns. Conservation efforts should pay special attention on freshwater habitats, especially on small Aegean islands. Identifying the causal factors of SIE, combined with a thorough knowledge of the ecological requirements of species can offer insights into identifying habitat types and groups of species that are more vulnerable to alterations of the environment.
41242850|Aim Species distribution models (SDMs) use the locations of collection records to map the distributions of species, making them a powerful tool in conservation biology, ecology and biogeography. However, the accuracy of range predictions may be reduced by temporally autocorrelated biases in the data. We assess the accuracy of SDMs in predicting the ranges of tropical plant species on the basis of different sample sizes while incorporating real-world collection patterns and biases. Location Tropical South American moist forests. Methods We use dated herbarium records to model the distributions of 65 Amazonian and Andean plant species. For each species, we use the first 25, 50, 100, 125 and 150 records collected and available for each species to analyse changes in spatial aggregation and climatic representativeness through time. We compare the accuracy of SDM range estimates produced using the time-ordered data subsets to the accuracy of range estimates generated using the same number of collections but randomly subsampled from all available records. Results We find that collections become increasingly aggregated through time but that additional collecting sites are added resulting in progressively better representations of the species' full climatic niches. The range predictions produced using time-ordered data subsets are less accurate than predictions from random subsets of equal sample sizes. Range predictions produced using time-ordered data subsets consistently underestimate the extent of ranges while no such tendency exists for range predictions produced using random data subsets. Main conclusions These results suggest that larger sample sizes are required to accurately map species ranges. Additional attention should be given to increasing the number of records available per species through continued collecting, better distributed collecting, and/or increasing access to existing collections. The fact that SDMs generally under-predict the extent of species ranges means that extinction risks of species because of future habitat loss may be lower than previously estimated.
4539928|Parasite biodiversity varies on several scales, and in particular among different host species. Previous attempts at finding relationships between host features and the diversity of the parasite assemblages they harbour have yielded inconsistent results, suggesting strongly that any patterns might be taxon-specific. Here, we examined the potential of three host characteristics (host body mass, basal metabolic rate, and area of the geographical range) as determinants of parasite diversity in one group of ectoparasites, gamasid mites (superfamily Dermanyssoidea), using data from 63 species of small mammalian hosts. Our analyses used three measures of parasite diversity (species richness, the Shannon diversity index, and average taxonomic distinctness), and controlled for sampling effort and phylogenetic influences. Although several significant relationships were observed, they depended entirely on which diversity measure was used, or on which host taxon was investigated (insectivores vs. rodents and lagomorphs). In addition, the present results on patterns of mite diversity were not consistent with those of an earlier study involving roughly the same host taxa and the same biogeographical area, but a different group of ectoparasites, i.e. fleas. Thus, there appears to be no universal determinant of parasite diversity, and associations between host features and parasite diversity probably evolve independently in different host-parasite systems.
3246826|I examined a data set of 77 protected areas in the USA (including national and state parks) to determine which of the following variables most strongly influence alien plant species richness: park area, climate (temperature and precipitation), native species richness, visitation rate, local human population size, total road length, park shape and duration of European settlement. Many of these predictor variables are intercorrelated, so I used multiple regression to help separate their effects. In support of previous studies, native species richness was the best single predictor of alien species richness, probably because it was a good estimator of both park area and habitat diversity available for establishment of alien species. Other significant predictors of alien species richness were years of occupation of the area by European settlers and the human population size of adjacent counties. Climate, visitation rate, road length and park shape did not influence alien species richness. The proportion of alien species (alien richness/native richness) is inversely related to park area, in agreement with a previous study. By identifying which variables are most important in determining alien species richness, such findings suggest ways to reduce alien species establishment.
2999802|Colonization of artificial substrata was monitored on sheltered rocky shores at Husvik, South Georgia (54<sup></sup> 11'S; 36<sup></sup> 40'W) and Cumbrae, Scotland (55<sup></sup> 46'N; 4<sup></sup> 55'W) from mid summer to early autumn. South Georgia is a remote island (1,330 km from other land); Cumbrae is only 2 km from nearby coasts. Both islands were heavily glaciated for a period up to about 10,000 ybp, so the intertidal fauna is of geologically recent origin. The South Georgian fauna is depauperate and consists mainly of direct developers; that of Cumbrae is rich and largely larviparous. Colonization rates at Cumbrae were one to four orders of magnitude greater than at Husvik. It is suggested that the fauna of South Georgian shores stems from colonization by rafting from remote sources, while Cumbrae has been supplied predominantly by short-range pelagic larval dispersal. The measured differences in colonization rates reflect the substantial local advantage of larval dispersal over direct development in established communities.
3246806|A series of recent papers have implicated pathogens and parasites in amphibian population declines. Here, we review evidence on the link between infectious disease and amphibian population declines. We conclude that available data provide the clearest link for the fungal disease amphibian chytridiomycosis, although other pathogens are also implicated. We suggest additional experimental and observational data that need to be collected to provide further support that these other pathogens are associated with declines. We suggest that, in common with many emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) of humans, domestic animals and other wildlife species, emergence of chytridiomycosis may be driven by anthropogenic introduction (pathogen pollution). Finally, we review a number of recent advances in the host-parasite ecology of chytridiomycosis that help explain its emergence and impact.
20532074|Aim: Understanding the factors determining the transition from introduction of aliens to the establishment of invasive populations is a critical issue of the study of biological invasions, and has key implications for management. Differences in fitness among areas of introduction can define the zones where aliens become invasive. The American slider turtle Trachemys scripta has been introduced world-wide, and has negative effects on freshwater communities, but only a subset of introduced populations breed successfully. We used species distribution models to assess the factors influencing the slider distribution in Italy, by analysing bioclimatic features that can cause the transition from presence of feral adults to breeding populations. We also evaluated whether climate change might increase the future suitability for reproduction. Location: Central and Northern Italy. Methods: The distribution of slider turtle was obtained from the literature, unpublished reports and field surveys. We used Maxent to build bioclimatic models. Results: Reproductive populations are associated to a clear bioclimatic envelope with warmer climate, more solar radiation and higher precipitations than populations where reproduction is not observed. Several Mediterranean areas currently have climatic features suitable for sliders. Scenarios of climate change predict the expansion of these areas. In the near future (2020), the proportion of populations in areas suitable for reproduction will dramatically increase. Main conclusion: Our study shows that bioclimatic differences can determine the areas where aliens become invaders. Management should be focused to these source areas. However, climate change can increase fitness in the future, and therefore the interactions between climate change and fitness can boost the invasiveness of this alien species.
20532118|Aim: Successful invaders often possess similar ecological traits that contribute to success in new regions, and thus under niche conservatism, invader success should be phylogenetically clustered. We asked if the degree to which non-native plant species are phylogenetically related is a predictor of invasion success at two spatial scales. Location: Australia -- the whole continent and Royal National Park (south-eastern Australia). Methods: We used non-native plant species occupancy in Royal National Park, as well as estimated continental occupancy of these species from herbarium records. We then estimated phylogenetic relationships using molecular data from three gene sequences available on GenBank (matK, rbcL and ITS1). We tested for phylogenetic signals in occupancy using Blomberg's K. Results: Whereas most non-native plants were relatively scarce, there was a strong phylogenetic signal for continental occupancy, driven by the clustering of successful species in Asteraceae, Caryophyllaceae, Poaceae and Solanaceae. However, we failed to detect a phylogenetic signal at the park scale. Main Conclusions: Our results reveal that at a large spatial scale, invader success is phylogenetically clustered where ecological traits promoting success appear to be shared among close relatives, indicating that phylogenetic relationships can be useful predictors of invasion success at large spatial scales. At a smaller, landscape scale, there was no evidence of phylogenetic clustering of invasion success, and thus, relatedness plays a much reduced role in determining the relative success of invaders.
4539933|Geospatial statistical modelling and thematic maps have recently emerged as effective tools for the management of natural areas at the landscape scale. Traditional methods for the collection of field data pertaining to questions of landscape were developed without consideration for the parameters of these applications. We introduce an alternative field sampling design based on smaller unbiased random plot and subplot locations called the pixel nested plot (PNP). We demonstrate the applicability of the PNP design of 15 m x 15 m to assess patterns of plant diversity and species richness across the landscape at Rocky Mountain National Park (RMNP), Colorado, USA in a time (cost)-efficient manner for field data collection. Our results produced comparable results to a previous study in the Beaver Meadow study (BMS) area within RMNP, where there was a demonstrated focus of plant diversity. Our study used the smaller PNP sampling design for field data collection which could be linked to geospatial information data and could be used for landscape-scale analyses and assessment applications. In 2003, we established 61 PNP in the eastern region of RMNP. We present a comparison between this approach using a sub-sample of 19 PNP from this data set and 20 of Modified Whittaker nested plots (MWNP) of 20 m x 50 m that were collected in the BMS area. The PNP captured 266 unique plant species while the MWNP captured 275 unique species. Based on a comparison of PNP and MWNP in the Beaver Meadows area, RMNP, the PNP required less time and area sampled to achieve a similar number of species sampled. Using the PNP approach for data collection can facilitate the ecological monitoring of these vulnerable areas at the landscape scale in a time- and therefore cost-effective manner.
20171953|A central tenet of conservation biology is that population size affects the persistence of populations. However, many narrow endemic species combine small population ranges and sizes with long persistence, thereby challenging this tenet. I examined the performance of three different-sized populations of Petrocoptis pseudoviscosa (Caryophyllaceae), a palaeoendemic rupicolous herb distributed along a small valley in the Spanish Pyrenees. Reproductive and demographic parameters were recorded over 6 years, and deterministic and stochastic matrix models were constructed to explore population dynamics and extinction risk. Populations differed greatly in structure, fecundity, recruitment, survival rate, and life span. Strong differentiation in life-history parameters and their temporal variability resulted in differential population vulnerability under current conditions and simulated global changes such as habitat fragmentation or higher climatic fluctuations. This study provides insights into the capacity of narrow endemics to survive both at extreme environmental conditions and at small population sizes. When dealing with species conservation, the population size--extinction risk relationship may be too simplistic for ancient, ecologically restricted organisms, and some knowledge of life history may be most important to assess their future.
40390735|Aim Most approaches to conservation prioritization are focused on biodiversity features that are already threatened. While this is necessary in the face of accelerating anthropogenic threats, there have been calls to conserve large intact landscapes, often termed 'wilderness', to ensure the long-term persistence of biodiversity. In this study, we examine the consequences of directing conservation expenditure using a threat-based framework for wilderness conservation. Location The Australian continent. Methods We measured the degree of congruence between the extent of wilderness and the Australian protected area network in 2000 and 2006, which was established using a threat-based systematic planning framework. We also assessed priority areas for future reserve acquisitions identified by the Australian government under the current framework. Results In 2000, 14% of Australia's wilderness was under formal protection, while the protected area network covered only 8.5% of the continent, suggesting a historical bias towards wilderness protection. However, the expansion of the reserve system from 2000 to 2006 was biased towards non-wilderness areas. Moreover, 90% of the wilderness that was protected over this period comprised areas not primarily designated for biodiversity conservation. We found a significant (P < 0.05) negative relationship between bioregions considered to be a priority for future reserve prioritization and the amount of wilderness they contain. Main conclusions While there is an urgent need to overcome past biases in reserve network design so as to better protect poorly represented species and habitats, prioritization approaches should not become so reactive as to ignore the role that large, intact landscapes play in conserving biodiversity, especially in a time of human-induced climate change. This can be achieved by using current or future threats rather than past threats to prioritize areas, and by incorporating key ecological processes and costs of acquisition and management within the planning framework.
3246860|During the last decade of 20th century, the nonindigenous gammarid species Gammarus tigrinus, Dikerogammarus haemobaphes, Pontogammarus robustoides and Obesogammarus crassus invaded the lower Vistula River and its deltaic, partly brackish regions. G. tigrinus, an oligohaline North-American species, was introduced to western Europe in the 1950s; the remaining three species are oligohaline/freshwater Ponto-Caspian species. All these species are now invading central and western Europe using the network of man-made canals connecting different European river systems. In the Vistula River, the native European freshwater gammarid species Gammarus pulex and G. varsoviensis were replaced in the 1920s by the Ponto-Caspian Chaetogammarus ischnus (syn. Echinogammarus ischnus), which in turn has been outnumbered by the more recent invasions of D. haemobaphes and P. robustoides. In brackish waters, the native Atlantic-boreal species Gammarus zaddachi and Gammarus duebeni are replaced or at least outnumbered by G. tigrinus, P. robustoides and O. crassus. Possible invasion routes are discussed.
20172001|Through the continuing accumulation of fossil evidence, it is clear that the avifauna of the Hawaiian Islands underwent a large-scale extinction event around the time of Polynesian arrival. A second wave of extinctions since European colonization has further altered this unique avifauna. Here I present the first systematic analysis of the factors characterizing the species that went extinct in each time period and those that survived in order to provide a clearer picture of the possible causal mechanisms. These analyses were based on mean body size, dietary and ecological information and phylogenetic lineage of all known indigenous, non-migratory land and freshwater bird species of the five largest Hawaiian Islands. Extinct species were divided into 'prehistoric' and 'historic' extinction categories based on the timing of their last occurrence. A model of fossil preservation bias was also incorporated. I used regression trees to predict probability of prehistoric and historic extinction based on ecological variables. Prehistoric extinctions showed a strong bias toward larger body sizes and flightless, ground-nesting species, even after accounting for preservation bias. Many small, specialized species, mostly granivores and frugivores, also disappeared, implicating a wide suite of human impacts including destruction of dry forest habitat. In contrast, the highest extinction rates in the historic period were in medium-sized nectarivorous and insectivorous species. These differences result from different causal mechanisms underlying the two waves of extinction.
20171965|The mysid crustacean Hemimysis anomala ('bloody-red shrimp') is one of the most recent participants in the invasion of European inland waters by Ponto-Caspian species. Recently the species also became established in England and the Laurentian Great Lakes of North America. Using information from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene sequences, we traced the invasion pathways of H. anomala; the inferences were enabled by the observed phylogeographical subdivision among the source area populations in the estuaries of the Ponto-Caspian basin. The data distinguish two routes to northern and western Europe used by distinct lineages. One route has been to and through the Baltic Sea and further to the Rhine delta, probably from a population intentionally introduced to a Lithuanian water reservoir from the lower Dnieper River (NW Black Sea area) in 1960. The other lineage is derived from the Danube delta and has spread across the continent up the Danube River and further through the Main-Danube canal down to the Rhine River delta. Only the Danube lineage was found in England and in North America. The two lineages appear to have met secondarily and are now found intermixed at several sites in NW Europe, including the Rhine and waters linked with the man-made Mittellandkanal that interconnects the Rhine and Baltic drainage systems.
40930613|Aim To examine the taxonomic uniqueness, range sizes, endemism and conservation status of southern temperate zone mammals and how factors impacting their conservation differ across hemispheres. Location Land surfaces of all continents (with the exception of Antarctica) and continental islands with an emphasis on the southern temperate hemisphere (land south of the Tropic of Capricorn). Methods We used data from the 2008 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species to characterize conservation status, threats and range sizes to compare northern and southern temperate zone mammals. We assessed the taxonomic uniqueness of the two regions as derived from the EDGE programme. We also conducted a gap analysis by overlapping mammal ranges with protected area coverages for temperate regions. Results Southern temperate species are phylogenetically more unique than in the Northern Hemisphere. The endemics have significantly smaller range sizes and are at a significantly greater risk of extinction (about 50% greater, with 24.7% of species being threatened versus 15.6% in the Northern Hemisphere). Finally, southern temperate endemics are significantly more likely to exist outside protected areas (13.38% versus 3.65%). Main conclusions The southern temperate zone harbours a unique fauna, attributed to the long isolation from the northern temperate zone. Temperate regions are heavily exploited for human activities, especially grazing and agriculture. The Southern Hemisphere is particularly susceptible to disturbance, given the small range sizes of its species and the low degree of protected area coverage. The scenario now is one of regions with numerous endemics under high threat from human activities.
2673413|The Mediterranean region as a whole has the highest dung beetle species richness within Europe. Natural coastal habitats in this region are among those which have suffered severe human disturbance. We studied dung beetle diversity and distinctiveness within one of the most important coastal protected areas in the west Euro-Mediterranean region (the regional Park of Camargue, southern France) and made comparisons of dung beetle assemblages with other nearby Mediterranean localities, as well as with other coastal protected area (Donana National Park, Spain). Our finding showed that: (1) The species richness of coastal habitats in the Camargue is low and only grasslands showed a similar level of species richness and abundance to inland habitats of other Mediterranean localities. The unique habitats of the coastal area (beaches, dunes and marshes) are largely colonized by species widely distributed in the hinterland. (2) In spite of their low general distinctiveness, dune and marsh edges are characterized by the occurrence of two rare, vulnerable, specialized and large roller dung beetle species of the genus Scarabaeus. As with other Mediterranean localities, current findings suggest a recent decline of Scarabaeus populations and the general loss of coastal dung beetle communities in Camargue. (3) The comparison of dung beetle assemblages between the Camargue and Donana shows that, in spite of the low local dung beetle species richness in the Camargue, the regional dung beetle diversity is similar between both protected areas. Unique historical and geographical factors can explain the convergence in regional diversity as well as the striking divergence in the composition of dung beetle assemblages between both territories.
3696856|A map of plant species diversity in Burkina Faso is presented based on field observations and specimen data from the Ouagadougou University Herbarium (OUA) and the Herbarium Senckenbergianum (FR). A map of collecting intensity and field observations illustrates centres of botanical research activities in Burkina Faso. To overcome problems associated with biased sampling intensity, distributions of species have been modelled and extrapolated to maps of vascular plant diversity, life forms and diversity of four selected families (Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Dioscoreaceae and Rubiaceae). The area of most intensive collection and observation is around Gorom-Gorom and Fada N'Gourma. Modelled diversity generally increases towards the south, as does the proportion of phanerophytes, lianas and hemicryptophytes, while the opposite trend is observed for therophytes. Poaceae diversity is highly correlated with total vascular plant diversity, making the family especially suitable as an indicator for overall plant diversity. Cyperaceae are rather evenly distributed throughout the country, Dioscoreaceae are restricted to the Sudanian Zone. Rubiaceae have their highest diversities in the very south. Our approach can be transferred to areas with a similar database, certainly to other areas within West Africa. Future research should focus on distribution data for rare species, enabling our approach to evaluate the West African system of protected areas.
3696845|Resource selection functions (RSFs) can be used to map suitable habitat of a species based on predicted probability of use. The spatial scale may affect accuracy of such predictions. To provide guidance as to which spatial extent or grain is appropriate and most accurate for animals, we used the concept of hierarchical selection orders to dictate extent and grain. We conducted a meta-analysis from 123 RSF studies of 886 species to identify differences in prediction success that might be expected for five selection orders. Many studies do not constrain spatial extent to the grain of the next broader selection order in the hierarchy, mixing scaling effects. Thus, we also compared accuracy of single- vs. multiple-grain RSFs developed at the unconstrained extent of an entire study area. Results suggested that the geographical range of a species was the easiest to predict of the selection orders. At smaller scales within the geographical range, use of a site was easier to predict when environmental variables were measured at a grain equivalent to the home-range size or a microhabitat feature required for reproduction or resting. Selection of patches within home ranges and locations of populations was often more difficult to predict. Multiple-grain RSFs were more predictive than single-grain RSFs when the entire study area was considered available. Models with variables measured at both small and large (> 100 ha) grains were usually most predictive, even for many species with small home ranges. Multiple-grain models may be particularly important for species with moderate dispersal abilities in habitat fragments surrounded by an unsuitable matrix. We recommend studies should no longer address only one grain to map animal species distributions.
20172017|Emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) may indirectly influence community structure by altering biotic interactions in which affected species participate. This kind of indirect effects has received little attention to date, although recent research suggest they may not be infrequent. Chytridiomycosis is an EID that is affecting amphibian assemblages worldwide. Here we present the first (to our knowledge) field evidence of its indirect effect on assemblage structure through the disruption of a biotic interaction. We have documented an expansion of the common toad (Bufo bufo) after chytridiomycosis nearly extirpated the midwife toad (Alytes obstetricans) in Pealara Natural Park (Central Spain). Bufo bufo has significantly increased its number of breeding sites. All newly occupied breeding ponds were colonized once the large numbers of large, overwintering A. obstetricans tadpoles they had previously held disappeared. An experiment demonstrated that breeding B. bufo adults strongly avoided laying eggs in water containing A. obstetricans tadpoles, accounting for observed patterns of pond use. A second experiment failed to show any predation by large A. obstetricans tadpoles on B. bufo eggs, but other researchers have documented reductions in condition, growth and survival of B. bufo larvae caused by the presence of A. obstetricans tadpoles. In Pealara, chytridiomycosis attacks B. bufo too, but its effect on it has been quite less severe than on A. obstetricans. Our findings show how, besides any chytridiomycosis direct effects, interspecific differences in its impact may alter assemblage-influencing biotic interactions and, hence, assemblage structure in indirect ways.
41242829|Aim Species' native ranges reflect the net outcome of interactions between lifehistory strategies and biotic and abiotic influences over evolutionary time-scales. Differences in native ranges might be indicative both of relative historical performance and adaptability to new conditions. Consequently, the native ranges of successful invaders might have distinctive biogeographical characteristics. We test this hypothesis by (1) quantifying macroecological patterns of the entire assemblage of native taxa in Acacia subgenus Phyllodineae in Australia, (2) testing whether highly invasive taxa represent random samples from the patterns observed for the assemblage as a whole and (3) exploring the link between native geographical range and the position of species along the introductionnaturalization-invasion continuum. Location Australia and worldwide. Methods Three distributional metrics representing particular biogeographical characteristics of species' native ranges - the logarithms of range size, percolation intercept and percolation exponent - were calculated by fitting a revised alpha hull to records from Australia's Virtual Herbarium. Randomization and cascaded tests were used to compare these metrics for species at different stages of invasion. Results The macroecological patterns of the three distributional metrics displayed lognormal-like frequency distributions. Most invasive species had significantly lower percolation exponents and larger native ranges than expected from random draws from the entire assemblage of Australian acacias, but percolation intercepts were not significantly different. This can be explained by a selection bias at the early stages of invasion. Main conclusions The outcome of the natural experiment of transplanting many Australian acacias into novel environments is not random. While invasive species have a particular macroecological pattern, this can be explained by the observation that species with large native ranges and low percolation exponents (i.e. high population increase rate) are most likely to have been introduced and naturalized. Whether this pattern is an artefact of human selection or reflects a human bias towards selecting invasive species remains to be seen.
20172023|Marine biogeographers have long recognized broad east-west differentiation of marine communities across southern Australia, but few studies have explicitly assessed the site of disjunction or the factors potentially underlying this biodiversity. A recent, detailed phylogeographical and distributional study of the dispersive gastropod genus Nerita revealed an abrupt shift in species abundance across mainland Australia, apparently correlated with the site of an historical vicariant barrier: the Bassian Isthmus. In the current study I provide an independent assessment of this vicariant hypothesis by morphologically analysing over 3000 intertidal Nerita specimens from eight coastal sites around Tasmania. Consistent with the Bassian Isthmus hypothesis, the study reveals a dramatic east-west disjunction across north-east Tasmania. A survey of marine biogeographical literature reveals several additional examples supporting the east-west species turnover detected in Nerita. I discuss the role of contemporary oceanographic factors in preserving the biogeographical signature of marine vicariance, even in highly dispersive taxa. Based on recent marine connectivity data, the east-west disjunction in Nerita taxa can be interpreted as an historic vicariant pattern perpetuated by contemporary oceanographic conditions. The results of this study emphasize the potential importance of considering relative abundance data -- rather than just species range data -- in marine biogeographical analyses. As the observed disjunction is likely to have broad implications for Australia's marine biodiversity, it is imperative that conservation biologists incorporate such data in the design of marine protected areas.
20171943|Topographical heterogeneity can create a mosaic of substrate types leading to the formation of isolated plant populations. Seed dispersal then becomes crucial for the colonization of such suitable but remote substrate types. We surveyed the distribution of seven elaiosome-bearing species (myrmecochores) over 5 km of natural heathland in southwestern Australia. Ants are the standard means of dispersal of these species, which provide limited dispersal (usually of a few metres). Six species were associated with particular substrate types (dune or swale) and all occurred as discrete populations, on average 270-500 m apart, with closest dune edges 280 m apart. We evaluated the possible roles of emus and kangaroos as alternative agents of long-distance seed dispersal between substrate types. Their droppings contained viable seeds of three of the target species, as well as other myrmecochores, and were evenly distributed over the substrate types. While migration of these plant species between preferred substrate types seems unlikely when considering only their standard dispersal agents (ants), it is highly likely in the presence of emus (in particular) and kangaroos that act as non-standard dispersers. This may have important consequences for plant species conservation by increasing habitat connectivity and favouring regional persistence.
40800783|Aim To compare patterns and drivers of freshwater fish introductions across five climatically similar regions and evaluate similarities and differences in the nonnative species introduced. Location Five mediterranean-climate regions: California (USA), central Chile, south-western Australia, the Iberian peninsula (Spain and Portugal) and the south-western Cape (South Africa). Methods Species presence-absence for native and non-native fishes were collated across the regions, and patterns of faunal change were examined using univariate and multivariate statistical approaches. Taxonomic patterns in freshwater fish introductions were evaluated by comparing the number of species introduced by order to the numbers expected from binomial probabilities. Factors influencing multiple introductions of freshwater fish species in mediterranean regions were determined using generalized linear modelling. Results High levels of endemism (70-90%) were revealed for south-western Cape, south-western Australia and Chile. Despite their high rates of endemism, all regions currently have more non-native species than endemic species. Taxonomic selection was found for five orders, although this was only significant for Salmoniformes across regions. The average increase in regional compositional similarity of fish faunas resulting from non-native fish introductions was 8.0%. Important factors predicting multiple introductions of a species include previous introduction success and mean latitude of its distribution Main conclusions The mediterranean-climate regions of the world, separated by vast distances, originally had a few fish species in common but are now more similar, owing to species introductions, illustrating the extent and importance of taxonomic homogenization. Introductions are largely driven by taxonomically biased human interests in recreational fisheries, aquaculture and ornamental pet species.
41242807|Aim Although satellite tracking has yielded much information regarding the migrations and habitat use of threatened marine species, relatively little has been published about the environmental niche for loggerhead sea turtles Caretta caretta in north-west Atlantic waters. Location North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia, USA. Methods We tracked 68 adult female turtles between 1998 and 2008, one of the largest sample sizes to date, for 372.2  210.4 days (mean  SD). Results We identified two strategies: (1) 'seasonal' migrations between summer and winter coastal areas (n = 47), although some turtles made oceanic excursions (n = 4) and (2) occupation of more southerly 'year-round' ranges (n = 18). Seasonal turtles occupied summer home ranges of 645.1 km (median, n = 42; using -hulls) predominantly north of 35  latitude and winter home ranges of 339.0 km (n = 24) in a relatively small area on the narrow shelf off North Carolina. We tracked some of these turtles through successive summer (n = 8) and winter (n = 3) seasons, showing inter-annual home range repeatability to within 14.5 km of summer areas and 10.3 km of winter areas. For year-round turtles, home ranges were 1889.9 km. Turtles should be tracked for at least 80 days to reliably estimate the home range size in seasonal habitats. The equivalent minimum duration for 'year-round' turtles is more complex to derive. We define an environmental envelope of the distribution of North American loggerhead turtles: warm waters (between 18.2 and 29.2 C) on the coastal shelf (in depths of 3.0-89.0 m). Main conclusions Our findings show that adult female loggerhead turtles show predictable, repeatable home range behaviour and do not generally leave waters of the USA, nor the continental shelf (< 200m depth). These data offer insights for future marine management, particularly if they were combined with those from the other management units in the USA.
20532081|Aim: Several studies have found that more accurate predictive models of species' occurrences can be developed for rarer species; however, one recent study found the relationship between range size and model performance to be an artefact of sample prevalence, that is, the proportion of presence versus absence observations in the data used to train the model. We examined the effect of model type, species rarity class, species' survey frequency, detectability and manipulated sample prevalence on the accuracy of distribution models developed for 30 reptile and amphibian species. Location: Coastal southern California, USA. Methods: Classification trees, generalized additive models and generalized linear models were developed using species presence and absence data from 420 locations. Model performance was measured using sensitivity, specificity and the area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) plot based on twofold cross-validation, or on bootstrapping. Predictors included climate, terrain, soil and vegetation variables. Species were assigned to rarity classes by experts. The data were sampled to generate subsets with varying ratios of presences and absences to test for the effect of sample prevalence. Join count statistics were used to characterize spatial dependence in the prediction errors. Results: Species in classes with higher rarity were more accurately predicted than common species, and this effect was independent of sample prevalence. Although positive spatial autocorrelation remained in the prediction errors, it was weaker than was observed in the species occurrence data. The differences in accuracy among model types were slight. Main conclusions: Using a variety of modelling methods, more accurate species distribution models were developed for rarer than for more common species. This was presumably because it is difficult to discriminate suitable from unsuitable habitat for habitat generalists, and not as an artefact of the effect of sample prevalence on model estimation.
2673406|The degree of localization in the distribution of Australian scarabaeine (320 spp.), aphodiine (160 spp.), geotrupid (166 spp.) and dynastine (182 spp.) scarabs is analysed. Localization differs among these groups, appearing to increase marginally from the Dynastinae, to the Aphodiinae, to the Scarabaeinae, to the Geotrupidae, but with significant differences within groups, e.g. the scarabaeine tribes Onthophagini and Scarabaeini. However, the Australian fauna lacks the high proportion of widespread species characteristic of the West Palaearctic Scarabaeinae, Aphodiinae and Geotrupidae. This difference reflects the different ecological histories of the two regions.
3877727|Macroecological and biogeographical studies and their applicability for biological conservation vitally depend on distribution data. These are usually taken from distribution atlases and databases or maps found in identification guides. A previous study pointed to another little explored source of data - local faunistic studies. Here, I would like to draw attention to another potential source. Papers that analysed the food composition of some taxa (e.g. insectivorous birds) are an overlooked source of rich information on taxa distributions. These studies frequently include an 'Appendix' with a list of food items determined to the species level. These studies also contain data on abundances, number of samples, sampling time, and geographical location as a rule. Foraging birds naturally provide data on invertebrate distributions with good spatio-temporal coverage and reasonably large samples. Importantly, birds frequently collect rare and by entomological methods hardly detectable species (i.e. those living high, in tree canopies, in very dense vegetation, or with secretive lifestyle). Data from bird dietary studies may help to ameliorate one of the most serious problems in distribution studies - zero inflation. I briefly discuss pros and cons of this so far neglected source of biogeographical data.
4539927|This paper establishes a framework within which a rapid and pragmatic assessment of river ecosystems can be undertaken at a broad, subcontinental scale, highlighting some implications for achieving conservation of river biodiversity in water-limited countries. The status of river ecosystems associated with main rivers in South Africa was assessed based on the extent to which each ecosystem had been altered from its natural condition. This requires consistent data on river integrity for the entire country, which was only available for main rivers; tributaries were thus excluded from the analyses. The state of main river ecosystems in South Africa is dire: 84% of the ecosystems are threatened, with a disturbing 54% critically endangered, 18% endangered, and 12% vulnerable. Protection levels were measured as the proportion of conservation target achieved within protected areas, where the conservation target was set as 20% of the total length of each river ecosystem. Sixteen of the 112 main river ecosystems are moderately to well represented within protected areas; the majority of the ecosystems have very low levels of representation, or are not represented at all within protected areas. Only 50% of rivers within protected areas are intact, but this is a higher proportion compared to rivers outside (28%), providing some of the first quantitative data on the positive role protected areas can play in conserving river ecosystems. This is also the first assessment of river ecosystems in South Africa to apply a similar approach to parallel assessments of terrestrial, marine, and estuarine ecosystems, and it revealed that main river ecosystems are in a critical state, far worse than terrestrial ecosystems. Ecosystem status is likely to differ with the inclusion of tributaries, since options may well exist for conserving critically endangered ecosystems in intact tributaries, which are generally less regulated than main rivers. This study highlights the importance of healthy tributaries for achieving river conservation targets, and the need for managing main rivers as conduits across the landscape to support ecological processes that depend on connectivity. We also highlight the need for a paradigm shift in the way protected areas are designated, as well as the need for integrated river basin management plans to include explicit conservation visions, targets, and strategies to ensure the conservation of freshwater ecosystems and the services they provide.
40930619|Aim To examine the influence of spatial scale on the usefulness of commonly employed biodiversity surrogates in subtidal macroalgae assemblages. Location South-west Australia. Methods The relationship between biodiversity surrogates and univariate and multivariate species-level patterns was tested at multiple spatial scales, ranging from metres (between quadrats) to hundreds of kilometres (between regions), using samples collected from almost 2000 km of temperate coastline that represented almost 300 species. Biodiversity surrogates included commonly used cost-effective alternatives to species-level sampling, such as those derived from functional groups and from taxonomic aggregation. Results Overall, surrogates derived from taxonomic aggregation to genus or family level correlated strongly with species-level patterns, although the family-level surrogate was a less effective predictor of species richness at large spatial scales. Surrogates derived from aggregation to coarser taxonomic levels and functional groups performed poorly, while the effectiveness of a surrogate measure derived from canopy-forming species improved with increasing spatial scale. Main conclusions A critical, but rarely examined, assumption of biodiversity surrogates is that the relationship between surrogate and species-level patterns is consistent in both space and time, and across a range of spatial and temporal scales. As the performance of all surrogates was, to some degree, scale-dependent, this work empirically demonstrated the need to consider the spatial extent and design of any biodiversity monitoring programme when choosing cost-effective alternatives to species-level data collection.
20532076|Aim: Which community metrics should be used to reflect community response to large-scale habitat alterations is unclear. Here, we assess what and how community changes should be measured to accurately track community responses to large-scale disturbance in space and/or time. Location: France. Method: We first developed a simulation model to examine temporal changes in the species composition of large-scale metacommunities. Using this model, we assessed how species richness, Shannon index, trends of particular subset of species or community indices of habitat specialization were influenced by different disturbance scenarios, and whether these indices were biased by imperfect detectability. We further used more than 1000 empirical bird communities from the French Breeding Bird Survey recently exposed to disturbances of various intensities as a case study. Results: Our simulation and empirical results both demonstrate that species richness and diversity measures can show confusing trends and even provide misleading messages of communities' fate. In contrast, reflecting the composition of the community in terms of habitat specialist and generalist species was more robust and powerful to reflect disturbance effects. Main conclusions: We highlight the weakness of using community metrics that fail to incorporate ecological difference among species when summarizing community-level trends in disturbed landscapes.
20172036|The construction of the world's largest hydroelectric scheme across the Yangtze River, the Three Gorges Dams (TGD), in the centre of a southern-central Chinese biodiversity hot spot, the Three Gorges Reservoir Area (TGRA), has attracted international concern and conservation action. To examine whether landscape changes to date have impacted regional flora, and to establish long-term monitoring baselines, we assessed the distribution and dynamics of an endangered and TGRA endemic fern, Adiantum reniforme var. sinense. For eight nuclear microsatellites, high levels of genetic diversity (
3877740|The Laurentian Great Lakes basin has been invaded by at least 182 non-indigenous species. A new invader is discovered every 28 weeks, which is the highest rate recorded for a freshwater ecosystem. Over the past century, invasions have occurred in phases linked to changes in the dominant vectors. The number of ship-vectored invaders recorded per decade is correlated with the intensity of vessel traffic within the basin. Ballast water release from ocean vessels is the putative vector for 65% of all invasions recorded since the opening of the St. Lawrence Seaway in 1959. As a preventive measure, ocean vessels have been required since 1993 to exchange their freshwater or estuarine ballast with highly saline ocean water prior to entering the Great Lakes. However, this procedure has not prevented ship-vectored species introductions. Most ships visiting the Great Lakes declare 'no ballast on board' (NOBOB) and are exempt from the regulation, even though they carry residual water that is discharged into the Great Lakes during their activities of off-loading inbound cargo and loading outbound cargo. Recently introduced species consist predominantly of benthic invertebrates with broad salinity tolerance. Such species are most likely to survive in a ballast tank following ballast water exchange, as well as transport in the residual water and tank sediments of NOBOB ships. Thus, the Great Lakes remain at risk of being invaded by dozens of euryhaline invertebrates that have spread into Eurasian ports from whence originates the bulk of foreign ships visiting the basin.
3246835|Biogeographical zones are described for terrestrial bird species endemic to the Afrotropics using up-to-date distributional data and multivariate statistical techniques. This provides an objective basis for a hierarchy of subregions, provinces and districts, based on a set of rules. Results are compared to previous studies at continental and regional scales. Biogeographical zones for passerines and non-passerines are compared and found to be similar. Peaks of species richness and narrow endemism are described for the six major subdivisions (subregions) identified by the cluster analysis. Coincidence of peaks of species richness and narrow endemism is found to be low, such that areas selected to represent high species richness tallies will often fail to represent narrow endemics. Strong regionalization of Afrotropical birds indicates the need to use a biogeographical framework in conservation priority setting exercises to ensure that unique, but species-poor, avifaunas are not neglected.
3696928|Eradication is a management strategy that can provide substantial ecological and economic benefits by eliminating incursions of pest organisms. In contrast to eradication efforts that target other pests, weed eradication programs can be very protracted owing to the presence of persistent seed banks and difficulties in detecting the target. Hence there is a need to develop criteria to assist in the evaluation of progress towards eradication. Knowledge of the extent of a weed incursion (the 'delimitation' criterion) is considered fundamental for eradication success, as an incursion will progress from any infestations that remain undetected and thus uncontrolled. This criterion is examined with regard to eradication programs targeting Bassia scoparia L. A.J. Scott [= Kochia scoparia L. Schrader], Chondrilla juncea L. (both in Western Australia) and Orobanche ramosa L. in South Australia. The B. scoparia incursion, which has been eradicated, was largely delimited within 12 months of the inception of its eradication program. In contrast, the Western Australian C. juncea incursion has never been delimited, owing to insufficient investment in surveillance during an eradication program spanning 30 years. An exponential decrease in the detection ratio (infested area detected/area searched) over time suggests that delimitation has been approached within 6 years of the inception of the eradication program for O. ramosa. An effective surveillance program is essential for achieving delimitation of a weed incursion.
20171974|Early responses to incursions of non-indigenous species (NIS) into new areas include modelling and surveillance to define the organisms' potential and actual distributions. For well-studied invasive species, predictive models can be developed based on quantitative data describing environmental tolerances. In late 2004, an invasive freshwater diatom Didymosphenia geminata, an NIS for which we had no such quantitative data, was detected in a New Zealand river. We describe a procedure used to rapidly develop a classification of suitability for all New Zealand's rivers, based on two sources of information. First, from a review of the limited available literature and unpublished data, we determined that temperature, hydrological and substrate stability, light availability, and water pH were the most important environmental gradients determining D. geminata's broad-scale distribution and capacity for establishing and forming blooms in rivers. The second information source was a GIS-based river network developed for a national classification of New Zealand's rivers, with associated data describing environmental characteristics of each section of the network. We used six variables that were available for every section of the network as surrogates for the environmental gradients that determine suitability. We then determined the environmental distance of all the river sections in the network from our assessment of the optimal conditions conductive to D. geminata blooms. The analysis suggested that &gt; 70% of New Zealand's river sections (stream order &gt; 3) fell into the two highest suitability categories (on a five-point scale). At the time of writing, D. geminata had spread to 12 catchments, all of which were within these two categories. The technique is applicable in initial responses to incursions of NIS where quantitative information is limited, and makes optimal use of available qualitative information. Our assessment contributed to evaluations of the potential ecological, social, and economic impacts of D. geminata and is currently being used to stratify site selection for ongoing surveillance.
3246878|Cyanobacterial mats, widely distributed in the inland alkaline marshes of northern Belize and other regions in the Caribbean, are not only important and functionally complex components of these habitats, but they are also significant reservoirs of biological diversity. Highly diverse and (relatively) isolated marshes have provided conditions suitable for cyanoprokaryotic organisms and conditioned the adaptation and stabilization of numerous specialized eco- and morphotypes. Species richness of cyanobacteria assemblages follows the conductivity gradient and is highest in the marshes of medium conductivity (c. 1000-2000  S cm
20172051|Aim: Species richness of insect herbivores feeding on exotic plants increases with abundance as well as range size of the host in the area of introduction. The formation of these herbivore assemblages requires a certain amount of time, and the richness of insect faunas should also increase with the length of time an exotic plant has been present in the introduced range. Location: Central Europe. Methods: We analysed the variation in species richness of leaf-chewing Lepidoptera larvae and sap-sucking Auchenorrhyncha (Hemiptera) associated with 103 exotic woody plant species in Germany in relation to time since introduction, range size, growth form (trees versus shrubs), biogeographical origin (distance from Central Europe) and taxonomic isolation of the host plant (presence or absence of a native congener in the introduced area). Results: Using simple correlation analyses we found for Lepidoptera and Auchenorrhyncha that species richness increased with time since introduction of the host plant. For the Lepidoptera the increase of species richness with time since introduction remained significant even after removing the effects of all other independent variables. Main conclusions: Our results provide some evidence that assemblages of insects on exotic plants do not reach saturation within a time scale of few hundred years. This contrasts with previous findings for crop plants.
40800786|Aim Conservation programmes for endangered migratory species or populations require locating and evaluating breeding, stopover and wintering areas. We used multiple stable isotopes in two endangered European populations of wrynecks, Jynx torquilla L., to locate wintering regions and assess the degree of migratory connectivity between breeding and wintering populations. Location Switzerland and Germany. Methods We analysed stable nitrogen (N), carbon (; C) and hydrogen (D) isotopes from wing feathers from two populations of wrynecks to infer their wintering origins and to assess the strength of migratory connectivity. We tested whether variation in feather isotopie values within the Swiss population was affected by bird age and collection year and then considered differences in isotopie values between the two breeding populations. We used isotopie values of summer-and winter-grown feathers to estimate seasonal distributions. Finally, we calculated a species-specific D discrimination factor between feathers and mean annual D values to assign winter-grown feathers to origin. Results Bird age and collection year caused substantial isotopie variation in winter-grown feathers, which may be because of annually variable weather conditions, movements of birds among wintering sites and/or reflect asynchronous moulting or selection pressure. The large isotopie variance in winter-grown feathers nevertheless suggested low migratory connectivity for each breeding population, with partially overlapping wintering regions for the two populations. Main conclusions Isotopic variance in winter-grown feathers of two breeding populations of wrynecks and their geographical assignment point to defined, albeit overlapping, wintering areas, suggesting both leapfrog migration and low migratory connectivity. On this basis, integrative demographic models can be built looking at seasonal survival patterns with links to local environmental conditions on both breeding and wintering grounds, which may elucidate causes of declines in migratory bird species.
4124765|Invasion by exotic trees into riparian areas has the potential to impact terrestrial and aquatic systems. To test the effect of different streamside tree species on the aquatic food web in a stream in Montana, we compared decomposition rates of leaf litter and invertebrate assemblages associated with the leaf litter of the exotic Acer platanoides and the dominant native Populus trichocarpa trees. Macroinvertebrate family richness, evenness, and diversity increased with days of aquatic processing; however, there was no effect of leaf species. Leaves of the A. platanoides were associated with 70% greater density of macroinvertebrates of the family Nemouridae. This family consists primarily of detritivores and had the greatest overall density and frequency of occurrence relative to other macroinvertebrate families. The density of a family of predatory macroinvertebrates (Rhyacophilidae) was also generally (73%) greater in association with A. platanoides than P. trichocarpa leaves. The density of Ephemerellidae and Rhyacophilidae increased over time. In contrast to studies comparing leaves of exotic vs. native trees, we observed no difference in leaf decomposition rates; however, the amount of leaf inputs are likely to differ between native and invaded forests. The results indicate that replacement of native riparian trees with exotics affected the most common family of macroinvertebrates and possibly a common family of predatory macroinvertebrates (Rhyacophilidae), which may affect the detrital food web.
3246875|Despite several recent contributions of population and evolutionary biology to the rapidly developing field of invasion biology, integration is far from perfect. I argue here that invasion and native status are sometimes best discussed at the level of the gene rather than at the level of the species. This, and the need to consider both natural (e.g. postglacial) and human-induced invasions, suggests that a more integrative view of invasion biology is required.
3246891|Relationships between spatial patterns of bird and mammal species richness in north-eastern Mexico were analysed in relation to the location of three biosphere reserves (El Abra-Tanchipa, El Cielo, and Sierra Gorda) and 13 priority areas recently identified for conservation. Ecological niches were modelled and potential distributions delimited for 285 bird and 114 mammal species using a genetic algorithm based on locality information from museum specimens and 15 selected environmental attributes. Potential distributions were transformed into hypothesized current distributions based on species-habitat associations as reflected in a recent land-use map. Although species richness was lower when distributions were reduced from potential to current, spatial patterns of potential and current richness were similar. Heuristic, complementarity-based prioritization procedures were used to identify combinations of areas and sites with maximal species representation: the biosphere reserves included 79% of birds and 74% of mammal species; eight priority areas provided an additional 11% of birds and 13% of mammals; the remaining 10% of birds and 13% of mammals were concentrated in new sites across the study area.
3696846|The goal of this study was to examine how introduced trout influence the distributions and abundances of a sub-alpine amphibian assemblage whose members display a variety of different life-history and defence strategies. Our study was conducted in the sub-alpine lentic habitats of three wilderness areas that form the core of the Klamath-Siskiyou Bioregion of northern California, a biodiversity 'hotspot' that supports the highest diversity of sub-alpine, lentic-breeding amphibians in the western USA. These wilderness areas contain no native fishes, but all have been populated with non-native trout for recreational fishing. Five of the eight amphibian species that occur in this region were sufficiently common to use in our study; these included one that breeds in both temporary and permanent waters and is palatable to fish (Pacific treefrog, Pseudacris regilla), two that breed primarily in permanent waters and are unpalatable to fish (western toad, Bufo boreas, and rough-skinned newt, Taricha granulosa), and two that breed primarily in permanent waters and are palatable to fish (Cascades frog, Rana cascadae, and long-toed salamander, Ambystoma macrodactylum). Based on life histories and predator defence strategies (i.e. palatable or not), we predicted that the three palatable species would likely be negatively correlated with introduced trout, but with P. regila less impacted because of its use of both temporary and permanent waters. We predicted that B. boreas and T. granulosa would not be significantly correlated with introduced trout due to the lack of any predator/prey interactions between them. We surveyed 728 pond, lake, or wet meadow sites during the summers of 1999-2002, using timed gill-net sets to measure trout occurrence and relative density, and visual encounter surveys to determine amphibian presence and abundance. We used semiparametric logistic regression models to quantify the effect of trout presence/absence and density on the probability of finding amphibian species in a water body while accounting for variation within and among the various lentic habitats sampled. The distributions of P. regilla, A. macrodactylum and R. cascadae were strongly negatively correlated with trout presence across all three wilderness areas. Ambystoma macrodactylum was 44 times more likely to be found in lakes without fish than in lakes with fish. Rana cascadae and P. regilla were 3.7 and 3.0 times more likely, respectively, to be found in fishless than fish-containing waters. In contrast, the two unpalatable species were either uncorrelated (T. granulosa) or positively correlated (B. boreas) with fish presence. We found that the relative density of fish (catch per unit effort) was negatively correlated with the combined abundances of the three palatable amphibians, and also with both the length and the condition of the fish themselves. Our results are consistent with a compelling body of evidence that introduced fishes greatly alter the aquatic community structure of mountain lakes, ponds, and wet meadows.
3877737| We assess the differential impact of logging and ENSO (El Nio Southern Oscillation)-induced disturbance on the relative butterfly abundance and species richness of range-restricted and widespread species within the island of Borneo. Relative abundance and species richness were assessed using rarefaction and species accumulation curves in unburned isolates surrounded by burned forest, the burned forest itself, and continuous forest unaffected by ENSO-induced disturbance in addition to logged and unlogged landscapes in unburned forest. The relative abundance of endemics was significantly higher in unlogged forest than logged forest and significantly higher in unburned forest than burned forest. Rarefied species richness of range categories was similar (Bornean endemics) or higher (other categories) in selectively logged than unlogged forest. In contrast, rarefied species richness of range-restricted species was highest in continuous forest, intermediate in unburned isolates, and lowest in burned forest. Only two individuals of a single Bornean endemic species were found in all the burned forest. Although species richness was higher in all range categories in continuous forest than in unburned isolates and in burned forest, the difference was most pronounced for range-restricted species. Logging and ENSO-induced fires thus have contrasting effects on range-restricted species. While both increase the relative abundance of widely distributed species at the expense of range-restricted species, only ENSO-induced disturbance lowers the rarefied number of restricted range species. Our research highlights the threat that severe ENSO events pose to geographically restricted classes of biodiversity. 
3246881|Biodiversity patterns of vascular plant species were studied along altitudinal gradients in the Faroe Islands. Plants were sampled from five different mountains (150-856 m a.s.l.) at 50 m altitudinal intervals. Included in the study were 107 vascular plant species. In order to compare only altitudes with the same number of plots, three different analyses were carried out. One analysis included five mountains from 250 to 750 m a.s.l., one had three mountains from 150 to 750 m a.s.l., and the last one had two mountains from 750 to 850 m a.s.l. The patterns of biodiversity were evaluated on the basis of species richness as the total number of species at each altitudinal interval, as species turnover between altitudes and in relation to the Shannon-Wiener index. Similar patterns were found for species richness in the three analyses, although richness was higher along the whole transect when five mountains were included. For the Shannon-Wiener index, only small differences were found among the three analyses. A maximum was seen at 250 m a.s.l. and again at 500 m a.s.l. both in richness and in the Shannon-Wiener index. Maximum species turnover was found at mid-altitudes. Total vegetation cover followed the same pattern as richness. In addition to climate, the altitudinal variation of biodiversity may be affected by grazing.
20532111|Aim: We explore the impact of calibrating ecological niche models (ENMs) using (1) native range (NR) data versus (2) entire range (ER) data (native and invasive) on projections of current and future distributions of three Hieracium species. Location: H. aurantiacum, H. murorum and H. pilosella are native to Europe and invasive in Australia, New Zealand and North America. Methods: Differences among the native and invasive realized climatic niches of each species were quantified. Eight ENMs in BIOMOD were calibrated with (1) NR and (2) ER data. Current European, North American and Australian distributions were projected. Future Australian distributions were modelled using four climate change scenarios for 2030. Results: The invasive climatic niche of H. murorum is primarily a subset of that expressed in its native range. Invasive populations of H. aurantiacum and H. pilosella occupy different climatic niches to those realized in their native ranges. Furthermore, geographically separate invasive populations of these two species have distinct climatic niches. ENMs calibrated on the realized niche of native regions projected smaller distributions than models incorporating data from species' entire ranges, and failed to correctly predict many known invasive populations. Under future climate scenarios, projected distributions decreased by similar percentages, regardless of the data used to calibrate ENMs; however, the overall sizes of projected distributions varied substantially. Main conclusions: This study provides quantitative evidence that invasive populations of Hieracium species can occur in areas with different climatic conditions than experienced in their native ranges. For these, and similar species, calibration of ENMs based on NR data only will misrepresent their potential invasive distribution. These errors will propagate when estimating climate change impacts. Thus, incorporating data from species' entire distributions may result in a more thorough assessment of current and future ranges, and provides a closer approximation of the elusive fundamental niche.
3246803|Over the last two decades, numerous studies have shown that alien predators contributed to amphibian population declines. Both experimental studies and correlative field surveys implicated alien species of fish, bullfrogs and crayfish as major contributors to amphibian population decline, and in some instances local extinction. Additional studies have demonstrated that alien predators also caused long-term changes in aquatic communities. Recent studies have examined the feasibility of removing alien predators, and provide some evidence that amphibian populations can recover. Applying information gained from past studies to the recovery of amphibian populations will be the challenge of future studies. International, national and local policies that regulate alien predators should be based largely on the body of scientific evidence already in the literature. Scientists need to be more involved with policy-makers to most effectively change laws that regulate alien predators.
3246692|An ability to predict species' sensitivities to habitat loss and fragmentation has important conservation implications, and numerous hypotheses have been proposed to explain interspecific differences observed in human-dominated landscapes. We used occupancy data collected on 32 species of vertebrates (16 mammals and 16 amphibians) in an agricultural landscape of Indiana, USA, to compare hypotheses that focus on different causal mechanisms underlying interspecific variation in responses to habitat alteration: (1) body size; (2) morphology and development; (3) behaviour; (4) niche breadth; (5) proximity to range boundary; and multiple-process models combining main effects and interactions of hypotheses (1)-(2) and (4)-(5). The majority of habitat alteration occurred over a century ago and coincided with extinction of several species; thus, our study dealt only with variation in responses of extant species that often are considered 'resistant' to human modifications of native habitat. Corrected Akaike scores and Akaike weights provided strongest support for models incorporating niche breadth and proximity to range boundary. Measures of dietary and habitat breadth obtained from the literature were negatively correlated with sensitivity to habitat alteration. Additionally, greater sensitivity was observed for species occurring at the periphery of their geographical ranges, especially at northern or western margins. Body size, morphological, developmental and behavioural traits were inferior predictors of tolerance to fragmentation for the species and landscape we examined. Our findings reinforce the importance of niche breadth as a predictor of species' responses to habitat alteration. They also highlight the importance of viewing the effects of habitat loss and fragmentation in a landscape within a biogeographical context that considers a species' level of adaptation to local environmental conditions.
2673397|Two developments in the understanding of the relationship between sedimentary pollen assemblages, vegetation and plant diversity are discussed. The Prentice model of vegetation-pollen relationships has improved our understanding of how and at what scale sedimentary pollen records vegetation. The modelling framework allows improved palaeoecological study designs that may, potentially, give important new insights into processes of plant migrations in response to climate change. Also, reconstructions of plant communities and landscape openness may be improved. Competing hypotheses for the relationship between vegetation and palynological diversity are discussed and it is concluded that more attention should be focused on evenness aspects of palynological diversity and on hypothesis testing
20532114|Aim: The likelihood of a species successfully passing through all stages of the human-mediated invasion process and becoming established at new locations is often determined by phenotypic characteristics. Among species, phenotypic similarity is negatively correlated with phylogenetic distance, but examples of independent evolution of traits in unrelated taxa do exist. Using marine bryozoans as model organisms we predict that, given the selectivity of the invasion process, the phylogenetic relatedness among established non-indigenous species in a region is either higher or lower than that among the native assemblage, but not the same. Location: Sixteen port and marina environments around New Zealand (the principal sites of establishment of most non-indigenous bryozoans), and coastal habitats of the entire New Zealand coastline. Methods: We use average taxonomic distinctness (avTD) as a measure of phylogenetic relatedness and taxonomic 'breadth' of species assemblages. We compare values of avTD between native and non-indigenous bryozoan assemblages at two spatial scales and examine whether assemblages in port environments represent phylogenetically restricted and morphologically distinct subsets of the regional coastal bryofauna. Results: At a nationwide and a local scale, the phylogenetic relatedness among non-indigenous bryozoans was no different from that among members of the native assemblage. However, native bryozoans inhabiting port and marina environments had a significantly reduced taxonomic breadth and higher phylogenetic relatedness than the pool of 'available' native bryozoans from surrounding coastal habitats. Non-indigenous species were on average six times more prevalent than native species in ports. There were no differences in morphological characteristics between native and non-indigenous bryozoans from ports and natural environments. Main conclusion: We found no evidence that a successful passage through the stages of the invasion process results in a taxonomically distinct non-indigenous assemblage. However, patterns of relatedness among native and among non-indigenous species may be influenced by the nature of the study environment.
3246795|Plants possessing generalized dispersal syndromes are likely to be more invasive than those relying on specialist dispersal agents. To address this issue on a local and regional scale, avian seed dispersal of the invasive alien Chinese tallow tree (Sapium sebiferum (L.) Roxb.) was assessed in forests and spoil areas of South Carolina and along forest edges in Louisiana during the 1997-99 fruiting seasons. Tallow trees in these floristically distinct habitats had a few common and many casual visitors, and considerable species overlap among habitats was found. However, bird species differed in the importance of dispersing and dropping seeds among habitats. Important dispersal agents common to forests and spoil areas of South Carolina included Northern Flicker, American Robin and Redwinged Blackbird, whereas Red-bellied Woodpecker and European Starling were important in the former and latter habitat, respectively. In Louisiana, Red-bellied Woodpecker, American Robin, Northern Cardinal and Eastern Bluebird dispersed many seeds. Nearly all species foraging on seeds were winter residents. Estimated numbers of seeds dispersed and dropped were higher in spoil areas of South Carolina than in Louisiana because of higher numbers of individuals per visit, higher seed consumption and seed dropping rates, and longer foraging durations. Within South Carolina, more seeds were dispersed and dropped in spoil areas than in forests because of higher numbers of birds per visit. These findings show that among habitats, tallow tree attracts diverse but variable coteries of dispersal agents that are qualitatively similar in seed usage patterns. We suggest that its generalized dispersal syndrome contributes to effective seed dispersal by many bird species throughout its range. Effects of differential avian use among locales may include changes in local bird communities, and differing tallow tree demographics and invasion patterns.
3246807|The amphibian decline problem is complex, and there is no easy solution. I highlight four major areas of future research that should increase our ability to detect declines, elucidate their underlying mechanisms, and advance our capacity to manage and conserve amphibian populations. First, a statistically sensitive monitoring approach is necessary to determine the distribution and abundance of amphibian populations, to assess whether they are declining, and to quantify the extent of declines. Most amphibian populations characteristically fluctuate, detection probabilities may be low for many species and populations tend to decline in numbers between years more often than they increase. These traits make establishing monitoring programmes difficult and distinguishing declines from natural fluctuations challenging. It is thus necessary to determine the best monitoring techniques based on their statistical power and to use appropriate statistical methods for detecting population trends. Secondly, although amphibian population studies occur most commonly at single or few breeding sites, research should occur often at the landscape level, and conservation efforts should focus on suitable habitat (whether or not it is occupied) and dispersal capabilities of species. Metapopulation dynamics are probably important for many species, but we must be cautious how we define metapopulations. That is, the term 'metapopulation' is currently used to define a wide range of demographic situations in amphibian populations, each with different management implications. Thirdly, recent advances in molecular genetic techniques make it possible to infer demographic events such as effects of recent fragmentation, bottlenecks or hybridization. Molecular techniques can be used in conjunction with census surveys to bolster knowledge about demographic processes such as declines. Alternatively, in the absence of long-term census data, molecular data can be used to infer population trends. New genomic approaches may make estimating adaptive genetic variation more feasible. Fourthly, multi-factorial studies are needed to disentangle the complexity of the several putative causes that probably interact to cause amphibian declines. Recent studies demonstrate the value of a multi-factorial approach, and more work is needed to elucidate the Synergistic effects of multiple environmental factors affecting amphibian populations simultaneously worldwide.
2673359|We studied the patterns of species richness and range-size rarity (as a measure of endemism) of two plant groups (Pteridophyta, Bromeliaceae) and birds along two gradients of elevation, humidity and human land use in a forested Andean valley. Both transects covered the transition from an arid valley bottom through a cloud forest zone to relictual high-elevation Polylepis forest, but transects differed in overall precipitation. Plants were surveyed in 88 plots of 400 m<sup>2</sup> each, while birds were detected primarily through visual observations and tape recordings over areas of 0.3-1.5 km<sup>2</sup>. Global range sizes of all species were mapped on 1<sup></sup>-grids and range-size rarity was calculated as the mean inverse range size of all species recorded in elevational steps of 200 m. Patterns of species richness and range-size rarity were mainly unrelated between and within study groups. Monotonic increases and decreases and hump-shaped patterns were observed for species richness as well as range-size rarity. Several of these patterns can be interpreted in the light of the ecological requirements of each taxonomic group, e.g. dependence of fern species richness on humidity or of bird richness on habitat complexity. Species richness of ferns and birds peaked at higher elevations along the less rainy transect, possibly as a result of higher levels of solar radiation and ecosystem productivity. Patterns of species richness and endemism of the study groups are causally unrelated and cannot be used to predict those of other groups at the spatial scale of this study. Human impact was highest in areas of mostly low to intermediate species richness, but was often high in zones of high endemism.
4539953|Sandy beaches line most of the world's oceans and are highly valued by society: more people use sandy beaches than any other type of shore. While the economic and social values of beaches are generally regarded as paramount, sandy shores also have special ecological features and contain a distinctive biodiversity that is generally not recognized. These unique ecosystems are facing escalating anthropogenic pressures, chiefly from rapacious coastal development, direct human uses - mainly associated with recreation - and rising sea levels. Beaches are increasingly becoming trapped in a 'coastal squeeze' between burgeoning human populations from the land and the effects of global climate change from the sea. Society's interventions (e.g. shoreline armouring, beach nourishment) to combat changes in beach environments, such as erosion and shoreline retreat, can result in severe ecological impacts and loss of biodiversity at local scales, but are predicted also to have cumulative large-scale consequences worldwide. Because of the scale of this problem, the continued existence of beaches as functional ecosystems is likely to depend on direct conservation efforts. Conservation, in turn, will have to increasingly draw on a consolidated body of ecological theory for these ecosystems. Although this body of theory has yet to be fully developed, we identify here a number of critical research directions that are required to progress coastal management and conservation of sandy beach ecosystems.
41058172|Aim The Mediterranean Basin is recognized for its high levels of species richness, rarity and endemicity. Our main aim was to evaluate the relative effects of environmental and spatial variables and their scale-specific importance on beta diversity patterns along a gradient of mediterraneity, using spiders as a model group. Location This study was carried out in 18 coastal dune sites along the Portuguese Atlantic coast. This area encompasses 445 km and comprises two distinct biogeographic regions, Eurosiberian (northern coast) and Mediterranean (centre and south). Methods A forward selection procedure was carried out to select environmental and spatial variables responsible for determining beta diversity patterns. Variation partitioning and principal coordinates of neighbour matrices (PCNM) were used to estimate the contribution of pure environmental and pure spatial effects and their shared influence on beta diversity patterns and to estimate the relative importance of environmental structured variation and pure spatial variation at multiple spatial scales. Results Climate, ground vegetation dune cover and area were selected by a forward selection procedure. The same procedure identified three PCNM variables, all corresponding to large and medium spatial scales. Variation partitioning revealed that 46.1% of the variation of beta diversity patterns was explained by a combination of environmental and PCNM variables. Most of this variation (42.5%) corresponded to spatial variation (environmental spatially structured and pure spatial). Climate and vegetation structure influences were predominant at the PCNM1 and PCNM3 scales, while area was more important at the intermediate PCNM2 scale. Main conclusions Our study revealed that beta diversity of spiders was primarily controlled by a broad-scale gradient of mediterraneity. The relative importance of environmental variables on the spider assemblage composition varied with spatial scale. This study highlights the need of considering the scale-specific influence of niche and neutral processes on beta diversity patterns.
3246819|Geometrid moths were investigated at 26 sites on 9 elevational levels along an elevational transect at Mt. Kilimanjaro (Tanzania), stretching from the fine-grained mosaic of small agroforest plots with combined cultivation of trees, shrubs and crops at 1650 m through mountain rainforest to heathland at 3300 m. We sampled moths manually at light between 19:00 and 22:00 in the rainy seasons of March to May and October to January in the years 2000, 2001 and 2002. Along the transect, the composition of moth communities changed from a domination by Sterrhinae and Ennominae to a dominance of Larentiinae with increasing elevation. Overall, alpha diversity was very low compared to other tropical mountain regions. Fisher's alpha showed a maximum of 30 in the agroforest mosaic at 1650 m and decreased to values around 12 in the mountain rainforest. Communities of geometrid moths within the forest belt were significantly dissimilar from communities outside the forest. The diversity patterns on Mt. Kilimanjaro can be related to the young age, island-like position and history of the mountain. These factors have led to the formation of a homogeneous upper mountain rainforest habitat which in turn houses homogeneous moth communities with a low diversity compared to habitats at lower elevations. Here, a heterogeneous habitat mosaic allowing the intrusion of savannah species into this former forest habitat may account for an increased diversity. In the heath zone above the forest, climatic conditions are very harsh, permitting only few specialists to thrive in this ericaceous woodland. Edge effects were discernible at the forest-heathland boundary where some moth species from heathland invaded the closed forest. At the boundary between agroforest and a forest mosaic of exotic Acacia and Eucalyptus forest plantations and natural mountain forest, diversity values remained low as the dominant species Chiasmia fuscataria accounted for far higher proportions than other dominant species in any of the other habitats.
3246865| We analyse optimal and heuristic place prioritization algorithms for biodiversity conservation area network design which can use probabilistic data on the distribution of surrogates for biodiversity. We show how an Expected Surrogate Set Covering Problem (ESSCP) and a Maximal Expected Surrogate Covering Problem (MESCP) can be linearized for computationally efficient solution. For the ESSCP, we study the performance of two optimization software packages (XPRESS and CPLEX) and five heuristic algorithms based on traditional measures of complementarity and rarity as well as the Shannon and Simpson indices of -diversity which are being used in this context for the first time. On small artificial data sets the optimal place prioritization algorithms often produced more economical solutions than the heuristic algorithms, though not always ones guaranteed to be optimal. However, with large data sets, the optimal algorithms often required long computation times and produced no better results than heuristic ones. Thus there is generally little reason to prefer optimal to heuristic algorithms with probabilistic data sets. 
20172038|The spread of non-indigenous species into new marine habitats represents an increasing threat to global diversity. Genetic techniques provide basic understanding of the invasion processes. The ascidian Microcosmus squamiger is considered to be native to Australia, having been spread worldwide via transoceanic vessels. It has successfully invaded artificial and natural habitats where it has become a pest. We studied phylogeography and genetic structure of 12 M. squamiger populations, including samples from its native range (Australia) and introduced populations from the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic oceans, as well as the Mediterranean Sea. We amplified 574 bp of the mitochondrial COI gene in 258 individuals and found a total of 52 haplotypes. A haplotype tree revealed two main groups of haplotypes. The relative frequency of each group of haplotypes, multidimensional scaling, and analysis of molecular variance showed important differences between the western Australia localities and the remaining ones (eastern Australia and introduced populations). Furthermore, we found that the colonization of the different areas by M. squamiger has not occurred independently, as many introduced populations shared some low frequency alleles. A nested clade analysis showed a global pattern of restricted gene flow with isolation by distance, although we found episodes of long-distance dispersal in some clades. A contiguous range expansion was detected between Australian populations. We conclude that M. squamiger is native to Australia and has most likely expanded its range of distribution sequentially through worldwide shipping, especially from the harbours of the more populated eastern Australia. In introduced populations, we found a high genetic diversity which suggests enhanced invasive potential. Consequently, there is a need to control this species, as it outcompetes local biota and is an economic threat.
41242810|Aim Species introduced to an area outside of their native range are often thought to have higher impact in this new area. We examined whether this is really the case in mammals and birds and to what extent. In particular, we explored how impacts of alien species vary in relationship to invader identity and type of impact. Location Global. Methods We conducted a thorough review of the literature to compare the impact of alien European mammals and birds in their native and invaded ranges. Based on a series of environmental and economic impact scores, we ordered species along a continuum from weak invaders, which have lower impact in the invaded range, to strong invaders, which have higher impact in the invaded range. Results We found that nearly 80% of the mammals are strong invaders, but only half of the birds. Members of these two classes also affect their communities in different ways; birds more often have an impact via hybridization, whereas mammals have stronger impacts via herbivory, transmission of diseases to wildlife and their effects on agriculture, livestock and forestry. Main conclusions Generally, mammals and birds have different impacts when invading new regions. Although there are some bird species that are strong invaders, these remain the exception among birds, whereas most mammals increase their impact in the invaded range. This study provides a deeper insight into patterns of impact in the invaded range.
2673282|This paper demonstrates the use of phenology models mapped over the landscape as a tool in support of risk assessments for nonindigenous plant pests. Drawing on the relationship between pest development and temperature, the approach uses gridded sequential interpolated temperatures at a resolution of 1 km, linked with phenology models, to predict the potential for a pest to develop throughout the landscape. The potential for establishment of Colorado beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata) in England and Wales was used as an illustration. The likelihood of the pest completing a single generation during a 30-year period (1961-90) was computed. Summaries of phenology, based firstly upon point temperature series from weather stations and secondly upon temperatures interpolated across the landscape, were compared. The results revealed that the use of point data led to a 70% likelihood of over-estimating the area at risk from year to year. In the case of average long-term risk however, the point-based and landscape-wide distributions of establishment potential were similar. We demonstrate how the use of phenology models running on a daily time scale provides date based results, so allowing outputs to be tied in with periods in the cropping cycle. The application of daily data in computing the phenological results, unlike the main body of published work on pest risk assessment which uses averaged monthly data, reflects more fully the underlying variability and degrees of sensitivity of the pest to changes in weather.
40930612|Question Are the patterns of alien conifer (Pinaceae, Cupressaceae) invasions different between continents, and how is invasion success influenced by commercial forestry practices? Location Temperate and subtropical countries and regions (n = 60) from five continents spanning both hemispheres. Methods We used generalized linear mixed models to test how continent identity, region area and use in commercial forestry affect probabilities of Pinaceae and Cupressaceae species to escape following introduction and cumulative logit regression models to assess how these predictors affect the likelihood that a species becomes naturalized or invasive. Results Sixty Pinaceae of a global total of 232 and 26 Cupressaceae of a total of 142 species have escaped from cultivation across the study regions examined. Average numbers of both alien Pinaceae and Cupressaceae species per region were highest in Oceania, followed by Africa. Moreover, the probability of alien Cupressaceae and Pinaceae becoming naturalized or invasive was particularly high in these two continents. For both families, species used in commercial forestry have a significantly higher probability of escape than those which are only introduced for ornamental or other purposes. In the case of Pinaceae, forestry species also become naturalized or invasive more frequently than non-forestry species, while no such effect was detectable for Cupressaceae. Conclusions We found that non-native conifers are more likely to escape from cultivation, naturalize and turn into invasive weeds on the continents of the Southern Hemisphere. In addition to this biogeographic signal, introduction effort strongly determines the behaviour of introduced Pinaceae, and less so, Cupressaceae. A clear conflict exists between the economic benefits of conifer forestry and the risks to the environment from invasions. Future expansion of commercial forestry should address spatial planning to ecosystems vulnerable to invasion and adopt comprehensive risk assessment procedures.
41058150|Aim Charles Darwin posited that introduced species with close relatives were less likely to succeed because of fiercer competition resulting from their similarity to residents. There is much debate about the generality of this rule, and recent studies on plant and fish introductions have been inconclusive. Information on phylogenetic relatedness is potentially valuable for explaining invasion outcomes and could form part of screening protocols for minimizing future invasions. We provide the first test of this hypothesis for terrestrial vertebrates using two new molecular phylogenies for native and introduced reptiles for two regions with the best data on introduction histories. Location California and Florida, USA. Methods We performed an ordination of ecological traits to confirm that ecologically similar species are indeed closely related phylogenetically. We then inferred molecular phylogenies for introduced and native reptiles using sequence data for two nuclear and three mitochondrial genes. Using these phylogenies, we computed two distance metrics: the mean phylogenetic distance (MPD) between each introduced species and all native species in each region (which indicates the potential interactions between introduced species and all native species in the community) and the distance of each introduced species to its nearest native relative -NN (indicating the degree of similarity and associated likelihood of competition between each introduced species and its closest evolutionary analogue). These metrics were compared for introduced species that established and those that failed. Results We demonstrate that phylogenetically related species do share similar ecological functions. Furthermore, successfully introduced species are more distantly related to natives (for NN and MPD) than failed species, although variation is high. Main conclusions The evolutionary history of a region has value for explaining and predicting the outcome of human-driven introductions of reptiles. Phylogenetic metrics are thus useful inputs to multi-factor risk assessments, which are increasingly required for screening introduced species.
40390705|Aim Invasive ants can have substantial and detrimental effects on co-occurring community members, especially other ants. However, the ecological factors that promote both their population growth and their negative influences remain elusive. Opportunistic associations between invasive ants and extrafloral nectary (EFN)-bearing plants are common and may fuel population expansion and subsequent impacts of invasive ants on native communities. We examined three predictions of this hypothesis, compared ant assemblages between invaded and uninvaded sites and assessed the extent of this species in Samoa. Location The Samoan Archipelago (six islands and 35 sites). Methods We surveyed abundances of the invasive ant Anoplolepis gracilipes, other ant species and EFN-bearing plants. Results Anoplolepis gracilipes was significantly more widely distributed in 2006 than in 1962, suggesting that the invasion of A. gracilipes in Samoa has progressed. Furthermore, (non-A. gracilipes) ant assemblages differed significantly between invaded and uninvaded sites. Anoplolepis gracilipes workers were found more frequently at nectaries than other plant parts, suggesting that nectar resources were important to this species. There was a strong, positive relationship between the dominance of EFN-bearing plants in the community and A. gracilipes abundance on plants, a relationship that co-occurring ants did not display. High abundances of A. gracilipes at sites dominated by EFN-bearing plants were associated with low species richness of native plant-visiting ant species. Anoplolepis gracilipes did not display any significant relationships with the diversity of other non-native ants. Main conclusions Together, these data suggest that EFN-bearing plants may promote negative impacts of A. gracilipes on co-occurring ants across broad spatial scales. This study underscores the potential importance of positive interactions in the dynamics of species invasions. Furthermore, they suggest that conservation managers may benefit from explicit considerations of potential positive interactions in predicting the identities of problematic invaders or the outcomes of species invasions.
3246701|Understanding and predicting complex biological systems are best accomplished through the synthesis and integration of information across relevant spatial, temporal and thematic scales. We propose that mechanistic transport models, which integrate atmospheric turbulence with information on relevant biological attributes, can effectively incorporate key elements of aerial transport processes at scales ranging from a few centimetres and fractions of seconds, to hundreds of kilometres and decades. This capability of mechanistic models is critically important for modelling the flow of organisms through the atmosphere because diverse aerial transport processes - such as pathogen spread, seed dispersal, spider ballooning and bird migration - are sensitive to the details of small-scale short-term turbulent deviations from the mean airflow. At the same time, all these processes are strongly influenced by the typical larger-scale variation in landscape structure, through its effects on wind flow patterns. We therefore highlight the useful coupling of detailed atmospheric models such as large eddy simulations (LES), which can provide a high-resolution description of turbulent airflow, with regional atmospheric models, which can capture the effects of landscape heterogeneity at various scales. Further progress in computational fluid dynamics (CFD) will enable rigorous exploration of transport processes in heterogeneous landscapes.
20171975|Global trade is permanently ongoing and increases its volume every year. In this study, the occurrence of 87 unintentionally introduced spider species alien to Europe is analysed. The analysis includes (1) the introduction potential of six different origin areas of the world according to trade volume, area size, and geographical distance; (2) the body size of native and alien species; and (3) occurrence in or at buildings (synanthropic) or in natural habitats. We found the eastern Palearctic as the most influencing origin area with 44 introduced spider species to Europe. The eastern Palearctic and the Indomalayan provided a significantly higher number of introductions than expected, whereas the Nearctic, Neotropical, and Afrotropical provided a significantly lower number of introduced species than expected. This can be explained with their lower trade volume, smaller area, larger geographical distance to Europe, and stronger climate differences to Europe. Comparing the body size of introduced and native European spider species of the same family, we found for Theridiidae significantly larger alien spiders and for all other tested families a trend to a larger body size of alien species compared to the native spiders. The family affiliation of alien spiders is the most important factor for synanthropic occurrence in Europe. On the base of a very conservative estimation of spider species introductions to Europe combined with possible effects of climate change, we predict for the near future a permanent increase in the number of alien spider species in Europe.
3246750|Most national or regional initiatives aimed at managing biological invasions lack objective protocols for prioritizing invasive species and areas based on likely future dimensions of spread. South Africa has one of the most ambitious national programmes for managing plant invasions in the world. There is, however, no protocol for assessing the likely future spread patterns needed to inform medium- to long-term planning. This paper presents an assessment of the climatic correlates of distribution of 71 important invasive alien plants, and an analysis of the implications of these findings for future invasions in different vegetation types in South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland over the next few decades. We used a variant of climatic envelope models (CEMs) based on the Mahalanobis distance to derive climatic suitability surfaces for each species. CEMs were developed using the first three principal components derived from an analysis of seven climatic variables. Most species are currently confined to 10% or less of the region, but could potentially invade up to 40%. Depending on the species, between 2% and 79% of the region is climatically suitable for species to invade, and some areas were suitable for up to 45 plant invaders. Over one third of the modelled species have limited potential to substantially expand their distribution. About 20% of the vegetation types have low invasion potential where fewer than five species can invade, and about 10% have high invasion potential, being potentially suitable for more than 25 of the plant invaders. Our results suggest that management of the invasive plant species that are currently most widespread should focus on reducing densities, for example through biological control programmes, rather than controlling range expansions. We also identify areas of the region that may require additional management focus in the future.
40390707|Aim Artificial water points are often used in protected savanna ecosystems to maintain populations of large herbivores. However, these interventions lead to increased ranging and foraging pressure and can negatively impact important habitats and species. This study investigated the influence of artificial water provision on the foraging and movement paths of an African elephant population and modelled the impact of changing water availability on sensitive habitat types. Location Tembe Elephant Park (TEP), KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Methods We mapped and classified 414 km of elephant movement and foraging paths in a 300-km 2 fenced protected area. The data were analysed to determine the relationship between path size, distribution and distance to water. We also used a logistic modelling approach to explore the predicted effects of removing artificial water points on path distribution. Results Elephant paths were unevenly distributed throughout the habitats of TEP and the most established and heavily used paths were found closest to water. We also discovered a number of elephant 'rest areas' along the paths, which were distinct clearings that tended to be close to water and in sand forest habitat. Our model predicted that the removal of artificial water points would reduce the area crossed by elephant paths by 79%, leading to an 89% reduction in the presence of elephant paths in sand forest. Main conclusions Our study provides further evidence that manipulating surface water availability can be a useful tool for managing large herbivore impacts on vegetation and acts as the basis for further research on the trade-offs between conservation objectives.
41242851|Aim Early assessment of the impact of invasive alien species is crucial to set up timely management, but often the impact is evident when it is too late for action. We evaluated relationships between the alien crayfish, Procambarus clarkiiy the distribution of native amphibians, and the abundance of their larvae. We assessed whether considering measures of reproductive success provide a more prompt measure of impact than considering just species distribution. Location One hundred and twenty-five wetlands in Northern Italy, in an area recently invaded by P. clarkii. Methods We surveyed wetlands to assess the presence of breeding activity of amphibians and the distribution of P. clarkii. We measured the abundance of amphibian larvae before metamorphosis through pipe sampling. We built models analysing the relationships between amphibian and crayfish distribution, while taking into account spatial autocorrelation and environmental features. Analyses were performed at both the species level (generalized linear models and spatial eigenvector mapping) and community level (constrained redundancy analysis). Results In terms of breeding site distribution, only two amphibians (Lissotriton vulgaris and Hyla intermedia) were negatively associated with P. clarkiiy while the relationships between other the species and P. clarkii were positive or not significant. However, larval abundance for all amphibian species was negatively associated with the alien crayfish. Analyses performed at community and single species levels yielded consistent results. Main conclusions Procambarus clarkii impacts amphibians through different processes. Newts probably avoid invaded wetlands for breeding. Other species attempt breeding in wetlands with crayfish, but suffer very low success. Considering distribution data alone would not provide a correct picture of the impact of this alien species; measures of reproductive success may allow a more accurate assessment of the impact.
20172037|Predicting suitable habitat and the potential distribution of invasive species is a high priority for resource managers and systems ecologists. Most models are designed to identify habitat characteristics that define the ecological niche of a species with little consideration to individual species' traits. We tested five commonly used modelling methods on two invasive plant species, the habitat generalist Bromus tectorum and habitat specialist Tamarix chinensis, to compare model performances, evaluate predictability, and relate results to distribution traits associated with each species. Most of the tested models performed similarly for each species; however, the generalist species proved to be more difficult to predict than the specialist species. The highest area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve values with independent validation data sets of B. tectorum and T. chinensis was 0.503 and 0.885, respectively. Similarly, a confusion matrix for B. tectorum had the highest overall accuracy of 55%, while the overall accuracy for T. chinensis was 85%. Models for the generalist species had varying performances, poor evaluations, and inconsistent results. This may be a result of a generalist's capability to persist in a wide range of environmental conditions that are not easily defined by the data, independent variables or model design. Models for the specialist species had consistently strong performances, high evaluations, and similar results among different model applications. This is likely a consequence of the specialist's requirement for explicit environmental resources and ecological barriers that are easily defined by predictive models. Although defining new invaders as generalist or specialist species can be challenging, model performances and evaluations may provide valuable information on a species' potential invasiveness.
3246793|A study to assess the influence of abiotic (climatic conditions) and biotic factors (food resources, habitat preference and human activity) on endemism patterns of dung beetles in the Mediterranean region was conducted in the Iberian Peninsula and the Balearic Islands. The Thermicity Index (It), the Mediterraneity Index (Im3) and the Aridity Index (Ia) were used to assess the influence of abiotic factors. Relative rabbit density (DR), the proportion of landscape used historically for grazing by sheep and goats and the nature of the food resource were used to assess the influence of biotic factors. Relative endemism (EN) of dung beetle assemblages was positively and significantly related with all of the factors considered. However, the Aridity and Mediterraneity Indices are the best predictors of EN. The predicted endemism (EN = 0.017 Ia + 0.004 Im3 + 0.422) was highly positively and significantly related with the observed endemism. Dung beetle assemblages with the highest relative endemism were observed in the south-eastern part of the Iberian Peninsula. This distribution corresponded to the highest Aridity and Mediterraneity. In contrast, dung beetle assemblages with lower endemism were located in more humid and temperate areas. Assemblages of dung beetles with the highest endemism comprise many species adapted to aridity and the exploitation of dry dung pellets. Conservation of traditional grazing activity by pellet-dropping sheep and goats might benefit the maintenance of dung beetle biodiversity in Mediterranean ecosystems.
40800808|Aim We examined whether the community compositions of birds, lizards and small mammals were nested in a fragmented landscape in the Thousand Island Lake, China. We also assessed whether the mechanisms influencing nestedness differed among these taxonomie groups. Location Thousand Island Lake, China. Methods Presence/absence matrices were compiled for birds (42 islands) and lizards (42 islands) using line-transect methods, and for small mammals (14 islands) using live-trapping methods from 2006 to 2009. Nestedness was analysed using BINMATNEST, and statistical significance was assessed using the conservative null model 3. We used Spearman rank correlations and partial Spearman rank correlations to examine associations of nestedness and habitat variables (area, isolation, habitat diversity and plant richness) as well as lifehistory traits (body size, habitat specificity, geographical range size and area requirement) related to species extinction and immigration tendencies. Results The community compositions of birds, lizards and small mammals were all significantly nested, but the causal factors underlying nestedness differed among taxonomie groups. For birds, island area, habitat specificity and area requirement were significantly correlated with nestedness after controlling for other independent variables. For lizards, habitat heterogeneity was the single best correlate of nestedness. For small mammals, island area, habitat heterogeneity and habitat specificity were significantly correlated with nestedness. The nested patterns of birds, lizards and small mammals were not attributable to passive sampling or selective colonization. Main conclusions The processes influencing nested patterns differed among taxonomie groups. Nestedness of bird assemblages was driven by selective extinction, and lizard assemblage was caused by habitat nestedness, while nestedness of small mammals resulted from both selective extinction and habitat nestedness. Therefore, we should take taxonomie differences into account when analysing nestedness to develop conservation guidelines and refrain from using single taxa as surrogates for others.
3696857|Very small islands, on the order of a few hundred square metres in area, have rarely been the focus of ecological investigations. I sampled nine such islands in the central Exumas, Bahamas for arthropod species abundance and diversity using a combination of pitfall traps, pan traps and sticky traps. Three islands had no terrestrial vegetation, three islands contained only Sesuvium portulacastrum L., a salt-tolerant perennial that had been experimentally introduced 10 years ago, and three islands supported one or two naturally occurring plant species. A relatively diverse arthropod assemblage was discovered, including representatives of 10 different orders of Crustacea and Insecta. Land hermit crabs were the most abundant crustaceans, and dipterans were the most abundant and speciose insects. Two of the most common insects were previously undescribed species. Measures of arthropod species abundance and diversity were not significantly different for vegetated vs. non-vegetated islands. All 10 orders were present on bare islands, and nine of them were present on vegetated islands. Measures of arthropod species abundance and diversity were positively associated with island area, and negatively associated with distance from the nearest large island. Hypothesized food webs consist of several trophic levels and have strong allochthonous inputs. Tiny islands such as these hold insights into early successional processes and the base of insular food webs.
20172053|Aim: The 'taxonomic impediment' has led to a growing trend in ecology and conservation biology to use operational surrogates for species within the context of a particular research project. Because such 'parataxonomic' classifications are typically spatially limited in scope, we examined the influence of increasing spatial scale on the congruence of two such approaches with a more traditional taxonomic classification. Location: Sturt National Park, north-western New South Wales, Australia. Methods: Specimens of two ant genera, Camponotus and Rhytidoponera, were classified by three independent methods. The 'parataxonomic' classification assigned specimens to morphospecies without specialist taxonomic expertise; the 'taxonomic' classification assigned specimens to either described species or, where this was not possible, to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) using specialist taxonomic expertise; the 'phenetic' classification assigned specimens to putative species using a K-means partitioning algorithm on basic morphometric data. Specimens of each genus were pooled into 'assemblages', which were defined at multiple spatial scales using a nested sampling design. Congruence in the interspecimen relationships of the different classifications was tested for each assemblage using pair-wise Mantel correlations. Results: Classification congruence tended to decrease with increasing spatial scale. There were, however, clear differences between the genera. Parataxonomic-taxonomic congruence was consistently greater for Camponotus, while phenetic-taxonomic congruence showed the opposite pattern. Conclusions: Observed patterns in classification congruence are attributed to two principal causes: (i) within-species morphological variation, including ecotypic variation in Rhytidoponera and caste polymorphism in Camponotus; and (ii) a limit to the morphological similarity of potentially competing species at small spatial scales. Regardless of cause, the decline in agreement as the spatial scale of observation is increased has important implications for the measurement of biodiversity, particularly when comparing samples over regional, continental, and global scales.
3246768|We analyse populations of the insectivorous plant Drosophyllum lusitanicum (L.) Link (Droseraceae) and their habitats throughout the species' distribution range (Portugal, Spain and Morocco), and examine their relations. We have surveyed 32 populations and we analyse their demographic structures, accompanying plant communities (by twinspan analyses), and relationships between population features and several edaphic and nonedaphic environmental variables (by multiple regression analyses). Plant communities, their floristic richness and degree of endemism change across the geographical range of Drosophyllum. Populations vary strongly in size, density and age structure. Their recruitment seems largely determined by competition with the surrounding vegetation, while only weak relationships were detected between population performance and other environmental factors. The demographic structure of populations exhibits a marked geographical differentiation, with populations becoming older and sparser towards the north-western part of the range. The largest and presumably most stable populations are mostly found in southern Spanish heathlands, which are nowadays scarcely affected by man. Moroccan populations suffer from browsing by cattle and experience an accelerated generation turnover, while most Portuguese populations occur in afforested areas and experience strongly reduced recruitment. The historical distribution range of Drosophyllum within its peculiar habitat has probably been relatively stable, but recent regional differences in human land use have resulted in present-day differences in population performance, as well as in types and degrees of threat across the three countries involved. Conservation strategies should take into account this range-wide variation and combine approaches on different spatial scales.
41242812|Aim Hidden diversity within an invasive 'species' can mask both invasion pathways and confound management goals. We assessed taxonomic status and population structure of the monkey goby Neogobius fluviatilis across Eurasia, comparing genetic variation across its native and invasive ranges. Location Native populations were analysed within the Black and Caspian Sea basins, including major river drainages (Dnieper, Dniester, Danube, Don and Volga rivers), along with introduced locations within the upper Danube and Vistula river systems. Methods DNA sequences and 10 nuclear microsatellite loci were analysed to test genetic diversity and divergence patterns of native and introduced populations; phylogenetic analysis of mtDNA cytochrome b and nuclear RAG-1 sequences assessed taxonomic status of Black and Caspian Sea lineages. Multivariate analysis of morphology was used to corroborate phylogenetic patterns. Population genetic structure within each basin was evaluated with mtDNA and microsatellite data using F ST analogues and Bayesian assignment tests. Results Phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial and nuclear sequences discerned a pronounced genetic break between monkey gobies in the Black and Caspian Seas, indicating a long-term species-level separation dating to c. 3 million years. This pronounced separation further was confirmed from morphological and population genetic divergence. Bayesian inference showed congruent patterns of population structure within the Black Sea basin. Introduced populations in the Danube and Vistula River basins traced to north-west Black Sea origins, a genetic expansion pattern matching that of other introduced Ponto-Caspian gobiids. Main conclusions Both genetic and morphological data strongly supported two species of monkey gobies that were formerly identified as subspecies: N. fluviatilis in the Black Sea basin, Don and Volga Rivers, and the Kumo-Manych Depression, and Neogobius pallasi in the Caspian Sea and Volga River delta. Genetic origins of introduced N. fluviatilis populations indicated a common invasion pathway shared with other introduced Ponto-Caspian fishes and invertebrates.
3696853|Bonelli's eagle, Hieraaetus fasciatus, has recently suffered a severe population decline and is currently endangered. Spain supports about 70% of the European population. We used stepwise logistic regression on a set of environmental, spatial and human variables to model Bonelli's eagle distribution in the 5167 UTM 10 x 10 km quadrats of peninsular Spain. We obtained a model based on 16 variables, which allowed us to identify favourable and unfavourable areas for this species in Spain, as well as intermediate favourability areas. We assessed the stepwise progression of the model by comparing the model's predictions in each step with those of the final model, and selected a parsimonious explanatory model based on three variables - slope, July temperature and precipitation - comprising 76% of the predictive capacity of the final model. The reported presences in favourable and unfavourable areas suggest a source-sink dynamics in Bonelli's eagle populations. The fragmented spatial structure of the favourable areas suggests the existence of a superimposed metapopulation dynamics. Previous LIFE (The Financial Instrument of the European Union for the Environment and Nature) projects for the conservation of this species have focused mainly on the northern limit of its range, where the sharpest population decline has been recorded. In these areas, favourability is low and Bonelli's eagle populations are probably maintained by the immigration of juveniles produced in more favourable zones. However, southern populations, although stable, show signs of reduction in productivity, which could menace the population sizes in the whole study area. We suggest that conservation efforts should focus also on known favourable areas, which might favour population persistence in unfavourable areas through dispersal.
41242855|Aim Understanding the response of species to ecotones and habitat edges is essential to designing conservation management, especially in mosaic agricultural landscapes. This study examines how species diversity and composition change with distance from semi-natural habitats, over ecotones into agricultural fields, and how within-site patterns of community transition change across a climatic gradient and differ between crop types. Location A total of 19 sites in Israel where semi-natural habitats border agricultural fields (wheat fields or olive groves) distributed along a sharp climatic gradient ranging between 100 and 800 mm mean annual rainfall. Methods We performed butterfly surveys in 2006. We analysed species richness (-diversity), diversity, community nestedness and species turnover (-diversity) within sites and between sites (-diversity). We also assessed where species of conservation concern occurred. Results In wheat sites, richness and diversity declined abruptly from ecotones to fields and remained homogenously poor throughout the fields, regardless of climate. In olive sites, despite the sharp structural boundary, richness and diversity remained high from the semi-natural habitat to the grove margins and then declined gradually into groves. Species of conservation concern occurred across all habitats at olive sites, but none were found inside wheat fields or at their ecotones. The contrast in community structure between semi-natural habitats and fields was affected by both climate and field type. Irrigation in arid regions did not augment species diversity. Main conclusions Our results indicate that consideration of crop type, within a climatic context, should receive high priority in biodiversity conservation in agricultural areas. In 'hostile' crops, such as wheat, we suggest favouring a combination of high-intensity management and wide margins over less intensive management without margins, which may merely aid generalist butterfly species. The scarcity of butterflies in arid irrigated fields suggests a need to carefully assess the effects of irrigation and agrochemicals on species' communities.
40390716|Aim To investigate altitudinal range shifts of bryophytes in Switzerland by comparing recent altitudinal distributions with historical distributions derived from herbarium specimens. Location Switzerland, covering 41,285 km in Central Europe. Methods We used a dataset of 8520 herbarium specimens of 61 bryophyte species and compared altitudinal data between the two periods 1880-1920 and 1980-2005. The records we used were not specifically sampled for climatological analyses, but originate from non-systematic fieldwork by various collectors. Historical and recent records were distributed all over Switzerland with occurrences in all major biogeographical areas. To account for different sampling efforts in the two time periods, different subsampling procedures were applied. Results Overall, we found a significant mean increase in altitude of 89  29 m which was mainly driven by the cryophilous species (+222  50 m). The mean increase in altitude of cryophilous species corresponds to a decadal upward shift of 24 m. The upper range limit of cryophilous species also increased by 189  55 m, but there was no effect on the lower range limit. For intermediate and thermophilous species neither mean, nor upper or lower range limits changed. However, the proportion of records of thermophilous to cryophilous species increased considerably at lower altitudes, but levelled off above approximately 1800 m. Main conclusions We conclude that cryophilous bryophytes are expanding their range to higher elevations in Switzerland and that at lower elevations, a slow extinction process is going on, probably as a result of climate warming trends. The observed decadal upward shifts of cryophilous species closely match those reported from vascular plants in Europe and those expected, given recent estimates of climate warming trends. We emphasize that herbaria provide valuable data that can be used to detect ongoing changes in the distribution of species.
3246831|We analyse the hypothesis that predictable gradients occur in plant-pollinator interactions along altitudinal gradients due to thermal constraints on insect body size and floral traits being selected for by pollinators. Pollinators' size should follow Bergmann's rule in mountains (larger body size at higher altitudes) and selection should, in turn, lead to larger flower size at higher altitudes. The study focuses on the flower and pollinator size variation in 11 Cytisus scoparius populations located between 680 and 1300 m a.s.l., and on the relationship between flower size and pollination success of plants in each population. Significant differences among populations were found in flower size, pollinator size and fruiting success (ANOVA, P < 0.001 in all cases). Regression models show that (i) pollinator size increases significantly with altitude, (ii) a parallel quadratic increase in flower size and (iii) a quadratic decrease in pollination success with altitude. Moreover, there is a tendency of plants with smaller flowers in each population to have a higher percentage of flowers initiating development into fruits (ANCOVA, P < 0.05). All these observations support the presence of the predicted gradient in the studied species and they suggest the possibility of it to be somewhat common among plants that occupy large altitudinal ranges due to the simple basis on which it could be rooted.
40604218|Aim Conifers are invasive species in many parts of the world, especially in the Southern Hemisphere. There are many introduced conifers in Europe, but their status as alien species is poorly documented. We conducted a comprehensive literature review to ascertain the extent to which alien conifers can be considered invasive. Location Europe. Methods We reviewed the historical record of alien conifer invasion in Europe (i.e. species with anative range outside the continental boundaries of Europe) by screening the DAISIE database and the ISI Web of Science. Results According to DAISIE, there are 54 alien conifer species in Europe.Pseudotsuga menziesii is the species recorded as naturalized in the most countries (12) and the UK is the country with the most naturalized species (18). Thirty-seven of these conifers have been studied, to some extent, in a total of 131 papers (212 records). Nevertheless, only a few papershave investigated aspects related to biological invasions. In fact, the species are not referred to asalien by the authors in more than half of the papers (66%). Twenty-five per cent of the papers have investigated plant traits, 46% are about biotic and abiotic factors influencing tree performance and 29% deal with ecological and economic impacts. Most papers are related to entomology, dealing with natural enemies affecting the alien conifers. Main conclusions Scientists have not yet perceived alien conifers in Europe as problematic species. Moreover, the low introduction effort, long lag-time since plantation and phylogenetic closeness between alien and native conifers are possible reasons for their low expansion in Europe to date. From a management point of view, careful observations of sites with alien conifers is necessary to watch for new invasions. From a scientific perspective, thorough analyses of the extent that introduction, rates of naturalization and biogeographical differences influence invasive spread between the two hemispheres will prove timely.
3246771|Based on a review of recent literature, this paper puts forward hypotheses for global trends of inselbergs (isolated mountains) with regard to: (a) their bioclimatic position in relation to the surroundings; (b) their potential for providing habitat niches; and (c) human impacts that may influence ecological processes. This review takes a landscape-level perspective and highlights the challenges ahead in view of changing environmental conditions. Recognizing that inselbergs per se are composed of different microhabitats relative to their surroundings, inselbergs are hypothesized to be bioclimatic 'islands' of xeric conditions in a humid matrix in tropical and temperate regions, and 'islands' of mesic conditions in arid regions. The bioclimatic status of intermediate positions along this global axis (e.g. semiarid and subtropical savanna regions) is less clear. Here, other environmental variables may be of greater importance (micro-habitat composition, size of inselberg, distance to other mountain habitats and biogeographical influences). Whether or not biotic communities match these hypothesized physical and bioclimatic trends warrants investigation and could contribute to explaining global species diversity patterns. Invasion of alien species in tropical and Mediterranean-climate regions, and altered fire regimes and resource use pose threats to inselberg communities. Their role as sources of native species to recolonize disturbed surroundings is important in degraded semiarid and arid regions. A generalized model is proposed hypothesizing possible processes between inselberg habitats and disturbed areas in their surroundings in different climatic regions. This model may help to direct further research towards substantiating these perceived trends.
3696860|The ecology of seed dispersal by vertebrates has been investigated extensively over recent decades, yet only limited research has been conducted on how suites of invasive plants and frugivorous birds interact. In this review, we examine how plant fruit traits (morphology, colour and display, nutritional quality, accessibility and phenology), avian traits (fruit handling techniques, gut passage time and effect, bird movements and social behaviour and dietary composition) and landscape structure (fruit neighbourhood, habitat loss and fragmentation and perch tree effects) affect frugivory and seed dispersal in invasive plants. This functional approach could be used to develop generic models of seed dispersal distributions for suites of invasive plant species and improve management efficiencies. Four broad research approaches are described that could direct management of bird-dispersed invasive plants at the landscape scale, by manipulating dispersal. First, research is needed to quantify the effect of biological control agents on dispersal, particularly how changes in fruit production and/or quality affect fruit choice by frugivores, dispersal distributions of seed and post-dispersal processes. Second, we explore how seed dispersal could be directed, such as by manipulating perch structures and/or vegetation density to attract frugivorous birds after they have been foraging on invasive plant fruits. Third, the major sources of seed spread could be identified and removed (i.e. targeting core or satellite infestations, particular habitats and creating barrier zones). Fourth, alternative food resources could be provided for frugivores, to replace fruits of invasive plants, and their use quantified.
41242797|Aim Island faunas, particularly those with high levels of endemism, usually are considered especially susceptible to disruption from habitat disturbance and invasive alien species. We tested this general hypothesis by examining the distribution of small mammals along gradients of anthropogenic habitat disturbance in northern Luzon Island, an area with a very high level of mammalian endemism. Location Central Cordillera, northern Luzon Island, Philippines. Methods Using standard trapping techniques, we documented the occurrence and abundance of 16 endemic and two non-native species along four disturbance gradients where habitat ranged from mature forest to deforested cropland. Using regression analysis and AIC c for model selection, we assessed the influence of four predictor variables (geographic range, elevational range, body size and diet breadth) on the disturbance tolerance of species. Results Non-native species dominated areas with the most severe disturbance and were rare or absent in mature forest. Native species richness declined with increasing disturbance level, but responses of individual species varied. Elevational range (a measure of habitat breadth) was the best predictor of response of native species to habitat disturbance. Geographic range, body size and diet breadth were weakly correlated. Main conclusions The endemic small mammal fauna of northern Luzon includes species adapted to varying levels of natural disturbance and appears to be resistant to disruption by resident alien species. In these respects, it resembles a diverse continental fauna rather than a depauperate insular fauna. We conclude that the long and complex history of Luzon as an ancient member of the Philippine island arc system has involved highly dynamic ecological conditions resulting in a biota adapted to changing conditions. We predict that similar responses will be seen in other taxonomic groups and in other ancient island arc systems.
20532120|Aim: To assess the population genetic consequences of the colonization of two species with contrasting mating systems, Solidago canadensis and Lactuca serriola, along altitudinal gradients in both their native and introduced ranges. Location: Allegheny Mountains, West Virginia and Wallowa Mountains, Oregon, USA; Valais, southern Switzerland. Methods: Leaf material was collected from populations along altitudinal gradients and genotyped at seven microsatellite loci for each species. Differences in variability between native and introduced areas and in relation to altitude were analysed using linear models. Differences in the genetic, geographical and altitudinal structure of populations between areas were analysed by AMOVA, cluster analysis and Mantel tests. Results: Genetic variation within and across populations of S. canadensis was significantly reduced, while populations of L. serriola were significantly more variable, in the introduced area. Genetic diversity decreased significantly with altitude for S. canadensis but not L. serriola. Genetic structure of S. canadensis was similar in both areas, and populations were isolated by geographical but not altitudinal distance. By contrast, population structure of L. serriola was much weaker in the introduced area, and populations were not isolated by distance in either area. Main conclusions: Solidago canadensis has experienced a strong genetic bottleneck on introduction to the Valais, but this has not prevented it from colonizing a wide altitudinal range. Variation in neutral markers is therefore not necessarily a good measure for judging the ecological behaviour of a species. By contrast, the greater variability of L. serriola in the introduced area, where it also occurs over a greater altitudinal range, can be explained by increased outcrossing among admixed populations. This suggests that the ecological amplitude of alien species might be enhanced after population admixture in the new range, especially for species with highly structured native populations. However, even genetically depauperate introduced populations can be expected to colonize the same environmental range that they occupy in the native area.
3877723|The role of mutualisms in contributing to species invasions is rarely considered, inhibiting effective risk analysis and management options. Potential ecological consequences of invasion of non-native pollinators include increased pollination and seed set of invasive plants, with subsequent impacts on population growth rates and rates of spread. We outline a quantitative approach for evaluating the impact of a proposed introduction of an invasive pollinator on existing weed population dynamics and demonstrate the use of this approach on a relatively data-rich case study: the impacts on Cytisus scoparius (Scotch broom) from proposed introduction of Bombus terrestris. Three models have been used to assess population growth (matrix model), spread speed (integrodifference equation), and equilibrium occupancy (lattice model) for C. scoparius. We use available demographic data for an Australian population to parameterize two of these models. Increased seed set due to more efficient pollination resulted in a higher population growth rate in the density-independent matrix model, whereas simulations of enhanced pollination scenarios had a negligible effect on equilibrium weed occupancy in the lattice model. This is attributed to strong microsite limitation of recruitment in invasive C. scoparius populations observed in Australia and incorporated in the lattice model. A lack of information regarding secondary ant dispersal of C. scoparius prevents us from parameterizing the integrodifference equation model for Australia, but studies of invasive populations in California suggest that spread speed will also increase with higher seed set. For microsite-limited C scoparius populations, increased seed set has minimal effects on equilibrium site occupancy. However, for density-independent rapidly invading populations, increased seed set is likely to lead to higher growth rates and spread speeds. The impacts of introduced pollinators on native flora and fauna and the potential for promoting range expansion in pollinator-limited 'sleeper weeds' also remain substantial risks.
3246772|This study investigates the effects of human disturbance and environmental factors on the distribution of alien plant species on the Georgia Sea Islands (GSI), USA. We sampled the absolute cover of native and alien plant species on two tourist islands (St. Simons Island and Jekyll Island) and on two protected National Wildlife Refuge Islands (Blackbeard Island and Wassaw Island). On each island, vegetation composition and environmental variables (soil properties and salt spray) were measured in two habitats that differed substantially in their degree of environmental stress, the more exposed primary dune and the more sheltered and inland maritime forest. Sites were further stratified within each habitat into areas that had different levels of human disturbance. Many alien species were present on all islands and the absolute cover of alien species was not significantly different among islands even though they varied substantially in their degree of accessibility and overall land use. Alien plant cover was appreciably greater in severely disturbed sites than in less disturbed sites on all islands and within both habitats. However, the difference between disturbance categories was much less pronounced in the primary dunes where human disturbance agents do not mitigate the harsh environmental conditions of this habitat (salt spray and saline soils). Alien plant abundance on the GSI is evidently more dependent upon the availability of disturbed ground than the degree of accessibility or overall island development. It appears that human disturbance increases alien cover in general, but in environments where the stress levels are not mitigated, human disturbance does little to foster alien invasions.
20172035|One major challenge in parasitology and epidemiology is determining whether the richness of parasitic and infectious diseases simply tracks host diversity or is largely determined by exogenous factors, such as climate-forced variables. We addressed this issue by analysing a 30-year survey of fungal diseases in French forests. We first combined generalized linear models and stepwise analyses to select the habitat descriptors that may account for variations in parasitic fungal species richness. Our results suggest that host species diversity is not a major determinant of parasite richness. Temperature seasonality, host abundance, and the composition of host species assemblages may play a greater role. Then we used structural equation modelling to investigate the links between these habitat descriptors and parasitic fungal species richness. Our results showed that climatic and host species descriptors had not only direct effects on species richness, but also indirect effects (via host species and sampling effort, respectively). Our results also showed that the direct effects of climate and host species were roughly equal. We therefore conclude that it is important to take into account exogenous factors when investigating the potential causes of spatial variation in the richness of parasitic diseases, in particular for plant diseases.
41242814|Aim It is increasingly recognized the importance of accounting for imperfect detection in species distribution modelling and conservation planning. However, the integration of detectability into a spatially explicit frame has received little attention. We aim (1) to show how to develop distribution maps of both detection probability and survey effort required to reliably determine a species presence/absence and (2) to increase awareness of the spatial variation of detection error inherent in studies of species occurrence. Location North-western Spain. Methods We registered the presence/absence of the endangered Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus) in 213 surveys performed in 40 of 104 territories once known to be occupied. We model simultaneously both detection probability and occurrence, using site occupancy modelling. With the resulting regression equations, we developed distribution maps of both detection probability and required sampling effort throughout the area. Results Of the studied territories, 72.5% were detected as occupied, but after accounting for imperfect detection, the proportion of sites truly occupied was 79%. Detectability decreased in territories with higher topographical irregularity and increased with both the time of day of the survey and the progress of the season. Spatial distribution of detectability showed a mainly north-south gradient following the distribution of slope in the area. The likelihood of occupancy increased with rockier, less forested surface and less topographical irregularity within the territory. A minimum of five surveys, on average, are needed to assess, with 95% probability, the occupancy status of a site, ranging from < 3 to > 24 visits/territory depending on survey-and site-specific features. Main conclusions Accounting for detectability and its sources of variation allows us to elaborate distribution maps of detectability-based survey effort. These maps are useful tools to reliably assess (e.g. with 95% probability) occupancy status throughout a landscape and provide guidance for species conservation planning.
20172025|Several boreal insect species respond to smoke and heat generated by forest fires and use recent burns to reproduce in high numbers. Some of these species are rare or uncommon in undisturbed forests, and the contribution of recently burned habitats to their population dynamics has been deemed crucial by some to their long-term persistence. Consequently, the severe decline seen in some species in Fennoscandia has been frequently linked with fire suppression. In this paper, we explore some aspects of the spatial dynamics of pyrophilous insect populations in relation to the expected relative contribution of burned and unburned habitats to their global population dynamics. Forest fires are, throughout the boreal forest biome, generally highly aggregated in some years while rare in most other years. The low connectivity between fire events and the typical life cycle seen in these species make it improbable that recent burns act as significant population sources. This leads us to suggest that populations of pyrophilous species may be more limited by the adequacy of the unburned matrix than by the occurrence of fire events. Moreover, by combining an age-class distribution model and a dead wood availability model, we show that the quality of the unburned matrix increases in landscapes with longer fire cycles, in which pyrophilous insects should persist at higher population levels. We conclude that the degradation of the unburned habitat better explains the decline of pyrophilous insects than fire suppression alone.
20532113|Detecting the presence of rare species has interested ecologists and conservation biologists for many years. A particularly daunting application of this problem pertains to the detection of non-indigenous species (NIS) as they colonize new ecosystems. Ethical issues prevent experimental additions of NIS to most natural systems to explore the relationship between sampling intensity and the detection probability of a colonizing NIS. Here we examine this question using a recently introduced water flea, Cercopagis pengoi, in Lake Ontario. The species has biphasic population development, with sexually-produced 'spring morphs' developing prior to parthenogenetically-produced 'typical' morphs. Thus, this biphasic morphology allows distinction between new colonists (spring morphs) from subsequent generations. We repeatedly sampled Hamilton Harbour, Lake Ontario for the presence of both spring and typical morphs. Probability of detection was positively related to both the number of samples taken and animal density in the lake; however, even highly intensive sampling (100 samples) failed to detect the species in early spring when densities were very low. Spatial variation was greatest when densities of Cercopagis were intermediate to low. Sub-sampling, which increased space between adjacent samples, significantly decreased the number of samples required to reach greater, calculated detection probabilities on these dates. Typical sampling protocols for zooplankton have a low probability (&lt; 0.2) of detecting the species unless population density is high. Results of this study suggest that early detection of colonizing, aquatic NIS may be optimized through use of a risk-based sampling design, combined with high sampling intensity in areas deemed most vulnerable to invasion, rather than less intensive sampling at a wider array of sites.
20171971|The ecological and economic advantages of preventing introduction of species likely to become invasive have increased interest in implementing effective screening tools. We compared the accuracy of the Australian Weed Risk Assessment (WRA) system with that across the six geographies in which it has been tested (New Zealand, Hawaii, Hawaii and Pacific Islands, Czech Republic, Bonin Islands and Florida). Inclusion in four of the tests of a secondary screening tool, developed to reduce the number of species requiring further evaluation, decreased the number of species with that outcome by over 60% on average. Averaging across all tests demonstrated that the WRA system accurately identified major invaders 90%, and non-invaders 70%, of the time. Examined differently, a species of unknown invasive potential is on average likely to be correctly accepted or rejected over 80% of the time for all of these geographies when minor invaders are categorized as invasive. Whereas increasing consistency in definitions and implementation would facilitate understanding of the general application of the WRA system, we believe that this tool functions similarly across islands and continents in tropical and temperate climates and has been sufficiently tested to be adopted as an initial screen for plant species proposed for introduction to a new geography.
3696830|Rapid anthropogenic climate change is already affecting species distributions and ecosystem functioning worldwide. We applied niche-based models to analyse the impact of climate change on tree species and functional diversity in Europe. Present-day climate was used to predict the distributions of 122 tree species from different functional types (FT). We then explored projections of future distributions under one climate scenario for 2080, considering two alternative dispersal assumptions: no dispersal and unlimited dispersal. The species-rich broadleaved deciduous group appeared to play a key role in the future of different European regions. Temperate areas were projected to lose both species richness and functional diversity due to the loss of broadleaved deciduous trees. These were projected to migrate to boreal forests, thereby increasing their species richness and functional diversity. Atlantic areas provided an intermediate case, with a predicted reduction in the numbers of species and occasional predicted gains in functional diversity. This resulted from a loss in species within the broadleaved deciduous FT, but overall maintenance of the group. Our results illustrate the fact that both species-specific predictions and functional patterns should be examined separately in order to assess the impacts of climate change on biodiversity and gain insights into future ecosystem functioning.
20172039|The impact of an exotic species in natural systems may be dependent not only on invader attributes but also on characteristics of the invaded community. We examined impacts of the invader bitou bush, Chrysanthemoides monilifera ssp. rotundata, in fore and hind dune communities of coastal New South Wales, Australia. We compared invader impacts on vegetation structure, richness of both native and exotic growth forms and community variability in fore and hind dunes. We found that impacts of bitou invasion were context specific: in fore dune shrublands, functionally distinct graminoid, herb and climber rather than shrub growth forms had significantly reduced species richness following bitou invasion. However, in forested hind dunes, the functionally similar native shrub growth form had significantly reduced species richness following bitou invasion. Density of vegetation structure increased at the shrub level in both fore and hind dune invaded communities compared with non-invaded communities. Fore dune ground-level vegetation density declined at invaded sites compared with non-invaded sites, reflecting significant reductions in herb and graminoid species richness. Hind dune canopy-level vegetation density was reduced at invaded compared with non-invaded sites. Bitou bush invasion also affected fore dune community variability with significant increases in variability of species abundances observed in invaded compared with non-invaded sites. In contrast, variability among all hind dune sites was similar. The results suggest that effects of bitou bush invasion are mediated by the vegetation community. When bitou bush becomes abundant, community structure and functioning may be compromised.
3696861|This study reports the endemism and sexual system in the wet evergreen tree flora of the Western Ghats. A total of 656 species from 66 families and 231 genera were listed. This included a gymnosperm family (Podocarpaceae) and a monocot family (Arecaceae). No family was endemic to the Western Ghats, but 352 species (53%) from 43 families and five genera were endemic. Nearly 35% of the families had no endemics. The largest families with endemics were Dipterocarpaceae (92%), Anacardiaceae (84%), Lauraceae (72%), Fabaceae, Rubiaceae and Myrtaceae (68%). The top five contributing families in the tree flora of the Western Ghats were Euphorbiaceae, Lauraceae, Rubiaceae, Myrtaceae and Annonaceae. The 656 species were largely hermaphrodites (57%) followed by dioecious (20%), polygamous (16%) and monoecious species (5%). The rate of dioecy reported in this study (20%) is higher than reports for Puerto Rico (18%) but lower than the Malaysian rainforest (26%). Structurally, like the Neotropical forests, most evergreen forest types of the Western Ghats could be classified into four ensembles. Yet, the Western Ghats had fewer species than other tropical and Neotropical forests. The proportion of endemics in the ensembles of the Western Ghats ranged from 34% (ensemble IV) to 14% (ensemble I).
4539936|Banksia hookeriana Meissn. (Proteaceae) is a fire-killed shrub endemic to the northern sandplains of south-western Australia that could be described as endangered based on its small geographical range ($< 5000 km^2$) and area of occupancy (
40800778|Aim Hybridization is a common and potent mechanism of plant evolution that has the potential to be evolutionary significant in its own right, and hybrids are common between invasive and native congeneric species. Our aims were to document the existence and nature of new Spartina hybrids arising between introduced Spartina densiflora and native S. martima in tidal marshes of the Iberian Peninsula, to examine the actual and potential range of hybrids in the intertidal zone, and to analyse the seed set of hybrids. Location South-West Iberian Peninsula. Methods Hybrids were characterized using chloroplast and nuclear DNA, and ploidy assessments. The ecological tolerance of the hybrids was studied using vegetation surveys and transplant experiments. Results We found that both parental species have been seed parents to hybrids and that all hybrids had an additive pattern of species-specific nuclear markers consistent with F  hybrids. Hybrid chromosome numbers varied between 2n = ca. 65 and 2n = ca. 94-97, while S. martima had 2n = ca. 60 and S. densiflora had 2n = ca. 70. Hybrids grew in three discrete locations along the intertidal zone but were capable of growing throughout the ranges of both parental species in transplanted gardens, and in most cases, grew better than the parental species. While the potential exists for the origination of another invasive Spartina hybrid species, thus far hybrid plants are not fertile, limiting their ability to invade and spread. Main conclusions We recommend the eradication of all of the currently quite limited hybrid cordgrass and to fight the S. densiflora invasion in the Iberian Peninsula to prevent the origination of a new invasive allopolyploid Spartina species.
20172020|The North American woody species, Prunus serotina Ehrh., is an aggressive invader of forest understories in Europe. To better understand the plant invasion process, we assessed understorey plants and Prunus serotina seedlings that have colonized a 35-year-old replicated common-garden experiment of 14 tree species in south-western Poland. The density and size of established (&gt; 1 year old) P. serotina seedlings varied among overstorey species and were related to variation in light availability and attributes of the understorey layer. In a multiple regression analysis, the density of established P. serotina seedlings was positively correlated with light availability and understorey species richness and negatively correlated with understorey species cover. These results suggest that woody invader success is adversely affected by overstorey shading and understorey competition for resources. Simultaneously, however, invader success may generally be positively associated with understorey species richness because both native and invasive plant colonization respond similarly to environmental conditions, including those influenced by overstorey tree species. Identification of characteristics of forests that increase their susceptibility to invasion may allow managers to target efforts to detect invasives and to restore forests to states that may be less invasible.
3877716|Assessing the effects of invading species on native community structure is often confounded by environmental factors and weakened by lack of replicated, long-term pre- and post-invasion monitoring. Here, we uncouple the community effects of a freshwater amphipod invader from environmental differences. In Irish rivers, the introduced Gammarus pulex replaces the native Gammarus duebeni celticus. However, the River Lissan in Northern Ireland is dissected by a weir that has slowed the upstream invasion by G. pulex. This allowed us in 2000 to sample three contiguous 150-m reaches that were (1) G. pulex dominated; (2) mixed Gammarus spp.; and (3) G. duebeni celticus only. In 2003, we resampled these reaches and one additional of mixed Gammarus species and one with only G. duebeni celticus further upstream. In temperature, conductivity, and pH, there were statistically significant but no biologically relevant differences among the five reaches of 2003, and between the three reaches surveyed in both years. Although there was evidence of recovery in macroinvertebrate diversity and richness in invaded reaches between years, continued upstream invasion was associated with sustained reductions in these community metrics as compared to un-invaded sites. Community ordination indicated (1) different associations of community composition attributed to the distribution, abundance, and biomass of the invader; and (2) increasing similarity of invaded communities over time. The impact mechanisms of G. pulex on macroinvertebrate community composition may include predation and competition. The consequences of the observed community changes for ecosystem functioning require further investigation.
3696833|One of the primary goals of any systematic, taxonomic or biodiversity study is the characterization of species distributions. While museum collection data are important for ascertaining distributional ranges, they are often biased or incomplete. The Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP) is an ecological niche modelling method based on a genetic algorithm that has been argued to provide an accurate assessment of the spatial distribution of organisms that have dispersal capabilities. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the accuracy of a GARP model to predict the spatial distribution of a non-invasive, non-vagile invertebrate whose full distributional range was unknown. A GARP predictive model based on seven environmental parameters and 42 locations known from historical museum records for species of the trapdoor spider genus Promyrmekiaphila was produced and subsequently used as a guide for ground truthing the model. The GARP model was neither a significant nor an accurate predictor of spider localities and was outperformed by more simplistic BIOCLIM and GLM models. The isolated nature of Promyrmekiaphila populations mandates that environmental layers and their respective resolutions are carefully chosen for model production. Our results strongly indicate that, for modelling the spatial distribution of low vagility organisms, one should employ a modelling method whose results are more conducive to interpretation than models produced by a 'black box' algorithm such as GARP.
20532091|Aim: Using data from field introduction experiments with Gammarus spp. conducted in the rivers of a small island, commencing in 1949, with resampling in the 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s and finally in 2005, we aimed to examine the long-term interaction of the native freshwater amphipod Gammarus duebeni celticus with the introduced G. pulex. Using physico-chemical data from a 2005 island-wide survey, we also aimed to find what environmental factors could influence the distribution of the two species. Location: The Isle of Man, British Isles. Methods: We used species distribution data from 10 river sites from a field introduction study in 1949-69, resampling of these sites in 1974/5, 1988, 1995 and 2005. We sampled a further 82 sites in 2005, where physico-chemical characteristics of each site were obtained. ANOVA was used to ascertain significant differences in environmental variables between native and introduced amphipod assemblages. Multiple discriminant analysis was used to relate Gammarus distribution to environmental gradients in rivers. Results: Field introductions of G. pulex into previously G. d. celticus dominated sites failed, despite the large propagule pressure in terms of numbers of individuals released and repeated introductions. The island-wide survey revealed that G. d. celticus was found in areas of higher water quality than G. pulex. Sites where the two species co-occurred also tended to be of lower water quality than native only sites. Continuing metal pollution from past mining activity may be a major factor excluding all amphipods from many rivers. The North American amphipod Crangonyx pseudogracilis, which was first discovered on the Isle of Man in one river site in 1995, was found in a further five sites. Main conclusions: This ecological experiment, through long-term monitoring, thus continues to elucidate factors influencing the distributions of introduced and native species. Under some physicochemical regimes, G. d. celticus is able to withstand its usual displacement by G. pulex, whereas increased river pollution could promote replacement of the native by the introduced species.
4539991|Reliable plans for desert bird conservation will depend on accurate prediction of habitat change effects on their distribution and abundance patterns. Predictive models can help highlight relationships between human-related and other environmental variables and the presence of desert bird species. Presence/absence of 30 desert bird species of Baja California peninsula was modelled on the basis of explanatory variables taken from the field, maps, and digital imagery. Generalized linear models were fit to each bird species using both variables representing human activity and other environmental factors as predictors that might influence distribution. Probability of species presence was used as a habitat suitability index to evaluate the effect of human activity when the model contained a significant human activity variable. No differences were found in bird species richness between natural sites and those transformed by agriculture or urbanization. Of 59 bird species recorded in surveys, 34% were positively or negatively associated with human-transformed habitats. Fourteen species seem to benefit from transformation of natural vegetation by agriculture or urbanization, while six were negatively affected. Sensitivity analyses of final models indicated all were robust. Results suggest that the occurrence of a large percentage of bird species inhabiting scrub habitats is sensitive to human habitat transformation. This finding has important conservation implications at regional scale as fragmentation and conversion of desert ecosystems into agricultural and urban areas affect the distribution of species that are highly selective for scrub habitat. Land use and anthropogenic activities seem to change ecological patterns at large spatial scales, but other factors could drive species richness distribution too (i.e. individual species response, species-energy relationships). The spatial modelling approach at regional scale used in this study can be useful for designing natural resource management plans in the Sonoran desert scrub.
40604224|Aim In subalpine and alpine environments, range shifts of species to higher altitudes are predicted to occur in response to reductions in the snow cover from climate change. However, the distribution of key resources may constrain the range of animal populations and prevent any upward migration. This study examined the local resource constraints on the upper range limit of a large, native herbivore in Australia, the common wombat Vombatus ursinus. Location The subalpine zone of the Snowy Mountains, Australia. Methods Logistic regression analyses of snow and habitat predictors were conducted on the presence/absence of wombat signs recorded along an altitudinal gradient during winter and summer, using parametric and nonparametric methods. Results Wombats responded strongly to the altitudinal gradient, but snow cover alone did not fully explain their upper range limit. Wombat occurrence in the subalpine zone was influenced by local habitat features in combination with maximum snow depth. More rugged, high-relief terrain was important to wombats in winter, allowing individuals access to a wider range of altitudes, snow depths and shelter sites. During summer, high soil bulk density was an important predictor of occurrence, and in both seasons, occurrence declined in response to a higher cover of burnt grass. Main conclusions These models demonstrate that local habitat factors play a role even where there are strong regulating environmental factors. For wombats, this may limit future range expansion into the alpine zone despite the potential for an increase in abundance at their present range limit. These findings show the need for local ecological studies to be conducted in parallel with broad scale climate modelling if we are to understand shifts in species distributions as the climate rapidly changes.
3696873|The aim of this paper is to explain the altitudinal changes that have occurred during the 20th century to the white stork distribution in the Podhale region of the uplands of the Tatra mountains, southern Poland. We analysed both historical data from the white stork censuses and detailed yearly records from 1974 to 2003 on population size, distribution and breeding success. A white stork nest was first recorded at Podhale in 1931 and numbers increased to seven nests in 1933, all located below 650 m altitude. During the 30-years, 1974-2003, both the maximum and upper-quartile altitudes of nests increased significantly. In 1974 the highest nest was at an altitude of 770 m, and the maximum reached 890 m in 1999. In the same period, the breeding population increased significantly. The minimum and lower-quartile altitudes of nests decreased significantly following initial occupation of suitable lower altitude sites before uphill expansion. We noted the positive association between nest occupancy over the study period and breeding performance. As a result, long-occupied nests contributed most of the young produced in the population and chicks from these nests probably colonized new areas. We believe this is the first well-documented evidence of, and mechanism for, a particular bird species to ascend to higher elevations and that the altitudinal shifts reported for butterflies, plants and whole biomes can be detected in birds as well.
20171944|Urban areas are among the land use types with the highes richness in plant species. A main feature of urban floras is the high proportion of non-native species with often divergent distribution patterns along urban-rural gradients. Urban impacts on plant species richness are usually associated with increasing human activity along rural-to-urban gradients. As an important stimulus of urban plant diversity, human-mediated seed dispersal may drive the process of increasing the similarity between urban and rural floras by moving species across urban-rural gradients. We used long motorway tunnels as sampling sites for propagules that are released by vehicles to test for the impact of traffic on seed dispersal along an urban-rural gradient. Opposite lanes of the tunnels are separated by solid walls, allowing us to differentiate seed deposition associated with traffic into vs. out of the city. Both the magnitude of seed deposition and the species richness in seed samples from two motorway tunnels were higher in lanes leading out of the city, indicating an 'export' of urban biodiversity by traffic. As proportions of seeds of non-native species were also higher in the outbound lanes, traffic may foster invasion processes starting from cities to the surrounding landscapes. Indicator species analysis revealed that only a few species were confined to samples from lanes leading into the city, while mostly species of urban habitats were significantly associated with samples from the outbound lanes. The findings demonstrate that dispersal by traffic reflects different seed sources that are associated with different traffic directions, and traffic may thus exchange propagules along the urban-rural gradient.
20171972|We investigated whether plasticity in growth responses to nutrients could predict invasive potential in aquatic plants by measuring the effects of nutrients on growth of eight non-invasive native and six invasive exotic aquatic plant species. Nutrients were applied at two levels, approximating those found in urbanized and relatively undisturbed catchments, respectively. To identify systematic differences between invasive and non-invasive species, we compared the growth responses (total biomass, root:shoot allocation, and photosynthetic surface area) of native species with those of related invasive species after 13 weeks growth. The results were used to seek evidence of invasive potential among four recently naturalized species. There was evidence that invasive species tend to accumulate more biomass than native species (P = 0.0788). Root:shoot allocation did not differ between native and invasive plant species, nor was allocation affected by nutrient addition. However, the photosynthetic surface area of invasive species tended to increase with nutrients, whereas it did not among native species (P = 0.0658). Of the four recently naturalized species, Hydrocleys nymphoides showed the same nutrient-related plasticity in photosynthetic area displayed by known invasive species. Cyperus papyrus showed a strong reduction in photosynthetic area with increased nutrients. H. nymphoides and C. papyrus also accumulated more biomass than their native relatives. H. nymphoides possesses both of the traits we found to be associated with invasiveness, and should thus be regarded as likely to be invasive.
3246877|Comparing species that become invasive with others from the same regional species pool that do not invade raises several issues about the accuracy of analyses attempting to define the determinants of invasiveness. The delimitation of the source area and deciding which species group(s) to include are especially relevant in analyses focusing on species originating in Europe. Historical patterns of immigration of alien species into Europe must be considered since European floras comprise a complex mix of native species, historical introductions (archaeophytes) and relative newcomers (neophytes). We make three main points: (1) Archaeophytes (species introduced to Europe before the discovery of America) differ from natives in a number of traits and in historical association with people; it is misleading to lump archaeophytes with native taxa. (2) Taxa from climatically and geographically different regions, representing distinct floristic geoelements, need to be treated separately, and not as a homogenous pool of potential invaders. Restricting the source species pool to native taxa with comparable phytogeographical characteristics reduces the variation associated with chance of dispersal by humans from the source area. (3) For prediction, a clear distinction should be made between accuracy (the proportion of those found to be alien that were also predicted to be there) and reliability (or predictive value, the proportion of those predicted to become aliens that do so). Information accumulated over centuries by botanists in Central Europe provides an excellent opportunity to deal with these issues and avoid spurious results. To illustrate these issues, we revisit a recently published study of Central-European plant species as invaders in two Argentinean provinces (Prinzing et al., 2002) to explore and demonstrate the implications of the above points. We hope that future studies will build on these points to achieve more reliable predictions.
4539975| Oak woodlands and savannas are key defining landscapes in the California Floristic Province, making up almost a quarter of the region's forests and woodlands. Two endemic Californian oak species, valley oak (Quercus lobata Ne) and blue oak (Quercus douglasii Hook. & Arn.), are widely considered at risk of decline from persistent recruitment failures in the last century. However, decades of research have produced no definitive conclusion about the existence, extent, or causes of this 'regeneration problem'. Underlying causes of perceived recruitment failure are unclear and could include drivers at distribution-wide to local scales including climate and atmospheric changes, habitat fragmentation, altered herbivore populations, changing fire regimes, exotic plant and animal invasions, livestock grazing, and soil conditions altered by past land uses. We performed meta-analyses of existing stand-scale data from the published and grey literatures on seedling and sapling recruitment in blue and valley oaks throughout each of their distributions. We sought to evaluate whether distribution-wide regeneration 'problems' exist for either species and to assess what factors correlate with distribution-wide recruitment patterns. Nearly 80% of sites surveyed for blue oaks but fewer than 50% of sites surveyed for valley oaks contained some evidence of seedling or sapling recruitment. A majority of sites surveyed for both species appear to have insufficient recruitment to replace adult populations, though further demographic work would be required to quantify minimum replacement recruitment rates. Reserve sites were seven times more likely than non-reserve sites to contain valley oak populations with evidence of recruitment. Blue oak recruitment patterns were weakly related to climate and geographical factors and strongly variable at subregional scales. We suggest several lines of additional research that could fill gaps in the existing literature and clarify the patterns emerging from this analysis. 
20171947|The aim of this study was to test a method to locate all the foci, centres, and areas of endemism in a biodiversity hotspot in order to understand the influence of ecological and historical factors on the distribution pattern and to identify priority areas for future conservation projects. The study area was the Maritime and Ligurian Alps hotspot. Analyses were performed on the presence/absence matrix of 36 vascular plant taxa endemic to the study area. For each operational geographical unit, the number of endemic taxa present was counted. Additionally, the weighted endemism value was calculated. Areas of endemism were distinguished using cluster analysis and parsimony analysis of endemicity. The influence of ecological characteristics and historical factors was evaluated using Multi-Response Permutation Procedure and the Nonparametric Multiplicative Regression. The Indicator Species Analysis (INDVAL) method was used to identify the species characterizing the areas of endemism. Our results show the importance and location of four main areas of endemism within the Maritime and Ligurian Alps and explain the distribution pattern of endemic plants. These areas are easily interpreted by historical and ecological factors, and INDVAL indicates which taxa took part in the history of each endemism area.
40390710|Aim Non-indigenous species pose a significant threat to the environment and to global economies. Predictive and preventative measures are widely considered more effective in curtailing invasions than are eradication or control measures. Of key importance in the prediction of regional invasion risk are the environmental conditions that enable successful establishment. Location We surveyed native and non-indigenous sessile invertebrate diversity in each of two commercial (600-1500 vessels per year) and two recreational estuaries (seven to nine marinas) in New South Wales, Australia. Methods A nested hierarchical design was employed to investigate variation in sessile invertebrate diversity at the scales of site (1-3 km apart) and estuary (40-180 km apart). Settlement plates (15 x 15 cm) were used to sample invertebrates and background heavy metal loads were assessed using bioaccumulation in experimentally deployed oysters. Other physico-chemical variables were monitored monthly. Manipulative experiments were used to test the direct effects of exposure to copper and tributyltin (TBT) antifouling paints on sessile invertebrates. Results Native and non-indigenous species richness differed at various spatial scales, but showed no consistent difference between commercial and recreational estuaries. Instead, individual species distributions were strongly related to metal contamination, temperature, turbidity and pH. In experimental studies, several species (mostly invaders) were more abundant on plates exposed to copper and/or TBT antifouling paints. We found higher levels of copper (and in some instances TBT) in recreational marinas than in commercial harbours. Main conclusions Our results demonstrate the importance of metal pollution and physico-chemical variables in the establishment of invaders in new regions. We have identified several native Australian species that have been exported overseas and suggested mechanisms contributing to their transport and establishment. Combining physico-chemical information about donor and recipient regions with species tolerances could go some way to predicting where future invasions may occur.
20172013|Patterns of spatial autocorrelation of biota and distributional similarity (concordance) between assemblages of different organism groups have important implications in both theoretical ecology and biodiversity conservation. Here we report environmental gradients and spatial distribution patterns of taxonomic composition among stream fish, benthic macroinvertebrate, and diatom assemblages along a fragmented stream in south-western France. We quantified spatial patterns of lotic assemblage structure along this stream, and we tested for concordance in distribution patterns among the three taxonomic groups. Our results showed that both environmental characteristics and stream assemblages were spatially autocorrelated. For stream fish and diatom assemblages, these patterns reflected assemblage changes along the longitudinal stream gradient, whereas environmental variables and benthic macroinvertebrates exhibited a more patchy spatial pattern. Cross-taxa concordance was significant between stream fish and diatoms, and between stream fish and benthic macroinvertebrates. The assemblage concordance between stream fish and diatoms could be attributed to similar responses along the longitudinal gradient, whereas those between stream fish and benthic macroinvertebrates may result from biotic interactions. Based on potential dispersal capacities of taxa, our results validated the hypotheses that weakly dispersing taxa exhibit greater concordance than highly dispersing ones and that dispersal capacities affect how taxonomic groups respond to their local environment. Both diatoms and highly dispersing stream fish were affected by stream fragmentation (i.e. the number of dams between sites), while the effect of fragmentation was not significant for invertebrates that fly well in their adult stage, thus emphasizing the importance of the way of dispersal. These results suggest that addressing the effects of dispersal capacity on stream assemblage patterns is crucial to identifying mechanisms behind patterns and to better understanding the determinants of stream biodiversity.
20171948|Biodiversity patterns may be influenced by the species geographical range sizes, but this is rarely shown. We used a highly replicated and large-scale study in coastal Ecuador to determine for the first time the importance of latitudinal range size of plant species in their response to land-use activities. We examined herbaceous plant communities of five land-use types with decreasing anthropogenic disturbance (from the most intervened rice and pasture to the less intervened managed agroforest, abandoned agroforest, and forest) in a low and a high impact human-dominated landscape. All species were classified in four latitudinal range size quartiles, from the 25% species with the narrowest to the 25% with the widest range size. We found notable differences between patterns of total species richness and those of individual range size quartiles. Whereas total species richness was higher in more intervened land-use types, percentages of narrow-ranged species were significantly higher in less intervened land-use types. In contrast, percentages of wide-ranging species were higher in more intervened land-use types. Hence, responses of plant species to human activities were influenced by traits that determine their range sizes. An analysis of floristic similarity between land-use types revealed that narrow-ranged species were mainly preserved in forest fragments, but the other land-use types supported many unique narrow-ranged species and therefore made an important contribution to their preservation at the landscape level. Conservation efforts should combine protection of natural habitats with strategies to maintain a diversity of low-intensity land-use types, looking for win-win solutions or trade-offs between biodiversity conservation and human welfare in human-dominated landscapes.
3246813|Although it has long been held that plant diversity must influence animal diversity, the nature of this relationship remains poorly understood at large spatial scales. We compare the species richness patterns of vascular plants and mammals in north-eastern Spain using a 100-km
40390776|Aim We explored general habitat-related explanations (niche breadth and niche position) to the contrasting status of two amphibian species that have largely overlapping ranges and habitats - the rare and declining crested newt (Triturus cristatus), and the more common smooth newt (Triturus vulgaris). These closely related and ecologically similar species provide an excellent opportunity to study those methodologically challenging hypotheses, and this is the first such study on amphibians. Location Denmark. Methods We derived multivariate habitat models from 27 characteristics of 210 ponds and their surroundings, and their occupation by newts. In addition to the model performance, niche breadths were compared using the mean beta diversity of amphibian communities in the presence of each newt species. Results For each newt species, the habitat models comprised three variables and correctly classified 74% of observations. Diverse invertebrate fauna (prey base) and shorter distances to other ponds inhabited by conspecifics were positive for both species, while the surrounding habitat (notably dry grasslands with forests) was important for the crested newt and the sediment type of the pond for the smooth newt only. Beta diversity of the amphibian communities of occupied ponds did not differ between the two newt species. Hence, in an area of frequent coexistence, habitat requirements of the species differed in key variables, not in the extent of specialization. Main conclusions Our study supported the niche position rather than the nichebreadth hypothesis of rarity. We suggest that the rarity and/or continuing decline of the -crested newt is related to the degradation of (semi) natural terrestrial habitats around suitable water bodies in Europe. Consequently, special restoration of such habitats has a high potential for the recovery of this rare species, while general pond management appeared more beneficial for the common smooth newt.
3246700|This special issue of Diversity and Distributions presents six papers that contribute to the assembly of a general research agenda for studying long-distance dispersal (LDD) across a variety of taxonomic groups (e.g. birds, fish, aquatic invertebrates and plants), ecosystems (e.g. terrestrial and marine ecosystems, wetlands and grasslands) and thematic fields (e.g. biological transport, marine biology, biogeochemistry and biodiversity conservation). This editorial emphasizes the need to develop a network integrating different research approaches ('yellow brick roads') to address the great challenge ('finding the end of the rainbow') of quantifying, understanding and predicting LDD and its implications. I review the key avenues for future research suggested in the special issue contributions, and stress the critical importance of properly considering the spatial and temporal scales relevant to the process and system of interests. I propose combining absolute and proportional definitions of LDD as a default practice in any investigation of LDD processes. When LDD is defined primarily by an absolute critical distance that characterizes key feature(s) of the system of interest, a quantitative assessment of the proportion of dispersal events expected to move beyond this critical threshold distance should also be provided. When LDD is defined primarily by a certain small fraction of dispersal events that travel longer than all others, an estimate of the absolute distance associated with this high percentile at the tail of the dispersal curve should also be added.
3877730|Rapid urbanization throughout the world is expected to cause extensive loss of biodiversity in the upcoming decades. Disturbances associated with urbanization frequently operate over multiple spatial scales such that local species extirpations have been attributed both to localized habitat degradation and to regional changes in land use. Urbanization also may shape stream communities by restricting species dispersal within and among stream reaches. In this patch-dynamics view, anthropogenic disturbances and isolation jointly reduce stream biodiversity in urbanizing landscapes. We evaluated predictions of stream invertebrate community composition and abundance based on variation in environmental conditions at five distinct spatial scales: stream habitats, reaches, riparian corridors and watersheds and their spatial location within the larger three-river basin. Despite strong associations between biodiversity loss and human density in this study, local stream habitat and stream reach conditions were poor predictors of community patterns. Instead, local community diversity and abundance were more accurately predicted by riparian vegetation and watershed landscape structure. Spatial coordinates associated with instream distances provided better predictions of stream communities than any of the environmental data sets. Together, results suggest that urbanization in the study region was associated with reduced stream invertebrate diversity through the alteration of landscape vegetation structure and patch connectivity. These findings suggest that maintaining and restoring watershed vegetation corridors in urban landscapes will aid efforts to conserve freshwater biodiversity.
4539911|We tested the influence of grazing intensity and effect of landscape complexity on grassland specialist and generalist beetles of three beetle families, i.e. Carabidae, Chrysomelidae, and Curculionidae, on extensively and intensively grazed cattle pastures in three regions of the Hungarian Great Plain. In every region we investigated seven pairs of grazed grasslands. On each field, samples were taken along two 95-m-long transects; one transect at the edge and the other one 50 m away from the edge in the grassland interior (altogether 84 transects). Carabids (Carabidae) were sampled using funnel traps for three 2-week sampling periods during spring and early summer. Leaf-beetles (Chrysomelidae) and weevils (Curculionidae) were surveyed by sweep netting in May and June 2003. Analysing the grazing intensity and landscape complexity effects on generalist and specialist beetles with linear mixed models, grazing effect was detected only on specialist leaf-beetle species richness with more species in the extensively grazed sites. Landscape complexity had contrasting effects on specialist and generalist species. Habitat generalists were more and negatively affected by increasing grassland coverage (reduced heterogeneity) than specialists. At species level analyses on four species out of 21, landscape effects were shown, which suggested that landscape composition might have strong effects on the species composition of the beetle assemblages. Our results suggest that conservation of biodiversity in agricultural systems (such as in managed Central European grasslands) requires a landscape perspective besides investigating management effects.
41242790|Aim Trait-based risk assessment for invasive species is becoming an important tool for identifying non-indigenous species that are likely to cause harm. Despite this, concerns remain that the invasion process is too complex for accurate predictions to be made. Our goal was to test risk assessment performance across a range of taxonomic and geographical scales, at different points in the invasion process, with a range of statistical and machine learning algorithms. Location Regional to global data sets. Methods We selected six data sets differing in size, geography and taxonomic scope. For each data set, we created seven risk assessment tools using a range of statistical and machine learning algorithms. Performance of tools was compared to determine the effects of data set size and scale, the algorithm used, and to determine overall performance of the trait-based risk assessment approach. Results Risk assessment tools with good performance were generated for all data sets. Random forests (RF) and logistic regression (LR) consistently produced tools with high performance. Other algorithms had varied performance. Despite their greater power and flexibility, machine learning algorithms did not systematically outperform statistical algorithms. Geographic scope of the data set, and size of the data set, did not systematically affect risk assessment performance. Main conclusions Across six representative data sets, we were able to create risk assessment tools with high performance. Additional data sets could be generated for other taxonomic groups and regions, and these could support efforts to prevent the arrival of new invaders. Random forests and LR approaches performed well for all data sets and could be used as a standard approach to risk assessment development.
41242808|Aim To incorporate dispersal through stream networks into models predicting the future distribution of a native, freshwater fish given climate change scenarios. Location Sweden. Methods We used logistic regression to fit climate and habitat data to observed pike (Esox lucius Linnaeus) distributions in 13,476 lakes. We used GIS to map dispersal pathways through streams. Lakes either (1) contained pike or were downstream from pike lakes, (2) were upstream from pike lakes, but downstream from natural dispersal barriers, or (3) were isolated from streams or were upstream from natural dispersal barriers. We then used climate projections to model future distributions of pike and compared our results with and without including dispersal. Results Given climate and habitat, pike were predicted present in all of 99,249 Swedish lakes by 2100. After accounting for dispersal barriers, we only predicted pike presence in 31,538 lakes. Dispersal barriers most strongly limited pike invasion in mountainous regions, but low connectivity also characterized some relatively flat regions. Main conclusions The dendritic network structure of streams and interconnected lakes makes a two-dimensional representation of the landscape unsuitable for predicting range shifts of many freshwater organisms. If dispersal through stream networks is not accounted for, predictions of future fish distributions in a warmer climate might grossly overestimate range expansions of warm and cool-water fishes and underestimate range contractions of cold-water fishes. Dispersal through stream networks can be modelled in any region for which a digital elevation model and species occurrence data are available.
3696887|The relationship between plant diversity and animal diversity on a broadscale and its mechanisms are uncertain. In this study, we explored this relationship and its possible mechanisms using data from 186 nature reserves across China on species richness of vascular plants and terrestrial vertebrates, and climatic and topographical variables. We found significant positive correlations between species richness in almost all taxa of vascular plants and terrestrial vertebrates. Multiple regression analyses indicated that plant richness was a significant predictor of richness patterns for terrestrial vertebrates (except birds), suggesting that a causal association may exist between plant diversity and vertebrate diversity in China. The mechanisms for the relationships between species richness of plants and animals are probably dependent on vertebrate groups. For mammals (endothermic vertebrates), this relationship probably represents the integrated effects of plants on animals through trophic links (i.e. providing foods) and non-trophic interactions (i.e. supplying habitats), whereas for amphibians and reptiles (ectothermic vertebrates), this may be a result of the non-trophic links, such as the effects of plants on the resources that amphibians and reptiles require.
40390725|Aim Japanese red maple (Acer pycnanthum K. Koch) is an endangered species which grows in discrete wetland ecosystems within a limited geographical range. It is an important relic of geologic time, an endemic of unique wetland ecosystems and an indicator of hotspots of plant species diversity. However, information on its genetic characteristics across its range is lacking. Our aim was to determine the genetic structure and diversity of the species and make recommendations for conservation. Location Wetlands in central Honshu Island, Japan. Methods We collected leaf samples from 400 individuals of A. pycnanthum in 30 populations, extracted total DNA from each and sequenced three non-coding regions of chloroplast DNA. Results We identified nine haplotypes. High haplotype diversity (0.81) and the occurrence of rare haplotypes in eight distant populations suggest that wetlands provided multiple, adequate-size refuges during the Last Glacial Maximum. We found only one to four haplotypes within populations. The high degree of differentiation (
20171970|It is commonly assumed that invasive plants grow more vigorously in their introduced than in their native range, which is then attributed to release from natural enemies or to microevolutionary changes, or both. However, few studies have tested this assumption by comparing the performance of invasive species in their native vs. introduced ranges. Here, we studied abundance, growth, reproduction, and herbivory in 10 native Chinese and 10 invasive German populations of the invasive shrub Buddleja davidii (Scrophulariaceae; butterfly bush). We found strong evidence for increased plant vigour in the introduced range: plants in invasive populations were significantly taller and had thicker stems, larger inflorescences, and heavier seeds than plants in native populations. These differences in plant performance could not be explained by a more benign climate in the introduced range. Since leaf herbivory was substantially reduced in invasive populations, our data rather suggest that escape from natural enemies, associated with increased plant growth and reproduction, contributes to the invasion success of B. davidii in Central Europe.
4539982|Native tree populations have been fragmented by anthropogenic disturbance worldwide, leaving them at risk from extinction. The possibility of sizable recovery of fragmented populations is a function of their dispersal, the abiotic conditions, and the biotic interactions. The relative importance of these three drivers for the recruitment rate of a fragmented population of the late-successional Fagus sylvatica L. was analysed at the landscape scale in Causse du Larzac, southern margins of the Massif Central, in the South of France. We used regression models on observational data to analyse the response of Fagus recruitment rate to the distance to the nearest mature population, to climatic and geological variables, and to variables describing biotic interactions (pine vs. grassland, light, shrub cover). Distance to the nearest F. sylvatica adult population was the most important explanatory variable. Recruitment rate was also influenced by facilitative biotic interactions with shrubs, and by the climatic conditions of the plot. Recruitment occurred at a greater distance from the nearest mature population of Fagus in pine forests than in grassland. Dispersal was the major limitation to recruitment of F. sylvatica in this landscape. The recruitment rate was then modulated by the climate and positive biotic interactions. The activity of the European jay could be of great importance for such fragmented populations, because it can lead to long-distance dispersal events and may result in a preferential dispersal towards pine forests.
2673425|Most national-scale conservation assessments are carried out at a resolution that is different from the actual size of protected areas in the study region. Coincidence between nature reserves and both hotspots (areas of high species richness) and complementary areas (sets of sites within which all species are represented) have been reported. However, the resolution (size of grid cells) of the species' distribution data upon which many of these studies are based is often close to an order of magnitude larger than the size of the reserves. Presumably, only a proportion of the species recorded in the coarse grid cells will actually be present on reserves. We use fine (2  2-km square grid cells) and coarse (10  10-km square grid cells) resolution data of national distributions for breeding birds throughout Great Britain, and presence data for avian species on Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) nature reserves, to investigate the proportion of species in the local area (100 km<sup>2</sup>) that are actually present on reserves. RSPB reserves contain between 50% and 70% of species from the local area. These proportions are significantly higher than for randomly selected, non-reserve areas, indicating that RSPB reserves contain higher concentrations of bird species than the wider countryside. Furthermore, on RSPB reserves these proportions of threatened and non-threatened species are equal, whereas in non-reserve areas the proportions of non-threatened species are significantly higher than threatened species. Thus, reserves hold a higher proportion of threatened species than occurs in the wider countryside.
20172033|A wide range of modelling algorithms is used by ecologists, conservation practitioners, and others to predict species ranges from point locality data. Unfortunately, the amount of data available is limited for many taxa and regions, making it essential to quantify the sensitivity of these algorithms to sample size. This is the first study to address this need by rigorously evaluating a broad suite of algorithms with independent presence-absence data from multiple species and regions. We evaluated predictions from 12 algorithms for 46 species (from six different regions of the world) at three sample sizes (100, 30, and 10 records). We used data from natural history collections to run the models, and evaluated the quality of model predictions with area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). With decreasing sample size, model accuracy decreased and variability increased across species and between models. Novel modelling methods that incorporate both interactions between predictor variables and complex response shapes (i.e. GBM, MARS-INT, BRUTO) performed better than most methods at large sample sizes but not at the smallest sample sizes. Other algorithms were much less sensitive to sample size, including an algorithm based on maximum entropy (MAXENT) that had among the best predictive power across all sample sizes. Relative to other algorithms, a distance metric algorithm (DOMAIN) and a genetic algorithm (OM-GARP) had intermediate performance at the largest sample size and among the best performance at the lowest sample size. No algorithm predicted consistently well with small sample size (n &lt; 30) and this should encourage highly conservative use of predictions based on small sample size and restrict their use to exploratory modelling.
2999808|This study, by using Caucasian Heracleum mantegazzianum as a model alien species, analyses the factors determining its invasion in the Czech Republic. Both the climatic factors and human influence were taken into account. The data were evaluated by analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with Poisson errors, using general linear modelling in GLIM. January isotherm and density of human population were the factors significantly affecting the species Heracleum is less represented in regions with warmer winter and low population density. The importance of low winter temperatures could explain the species distribution pattern over Europe, i.e rare or absent in its warm southeastern parts while thriving in the northwest. In the Czech Republic, Heracleum is principally limited only by factors related to its establishment, i.e dispersal possibilities and factors affecting the germination. If these are met, the species is extremely successful as an invader.
20532116|Aim: The blue-fronted amazon (Amazona aestiva) is a widely distributed Neotropical parrot with two recognized sub-species, which are mainly characterized by the colour of the shoulder. We explored mitochondrial DNA variability to determine how demographic processes and historical climatic fluctuations may have contributed to phylogeographical pattern and morphological variation of A. aestiva, and how this information could be useful to understand the evolutionary relationship of this species and the Amazona ochrocephala complex and to determine management units for conservation purposes. Location: Brazil and north-eastern Argentina. Methods: We analysed a fragment of COI gene of 78 A. aestiva and 27 A. ochrocephala. We computed a median-joining network, and the population structure of A. aestiva populations was assessed using a hierarchical analysis of nucleotide diversity. The mismatch distribution, Fu's
3696835|Key to the management of invasive species is an understanding of the scope of an invasion, the rate of proliferation and the rate at which invaded habitats become degraded. This study examines the spatial dynamics of high-density supercolonies of the invasive yellow crazy ant, Anoplolepis gracilipes, on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean, and the associated impacts at their boundaries. Since the early 1990s, A. gracilipes supercolonies have occupied over 30% of the 10,000 ha of rainforest on Christmas Island. Thirty-four discrete high-density supercolonies formed between 1989 and 2003, ranging in size across nearly three orders of magnitude from 0.9 to 787 ha. Supercolonies boundaries are diffuse, and ants were observed in low densities in some cases up to 200 m from the main high-density supercolony. The 13 boundaries examined were all dynamic over a 10-20 observation month period: nine boundaries expanded, and the maximum rate of spread was
3246746|Many factors influence the spread dynamics and distribution of invasive alien organisms. Despite progress in unravelling the determinants of invasiveness and invasibility, robust, spatially-explicit predictive models for explaining real-world invasion dynamics remain illusive. Reconstructing invasion episodes is a useful way of determining the roles of different factors in mediating spread and proliferation. In many cases, however, human-aided dispersal and other anthropogenic factors blur the roles of natural controlling factors. We describe the reconstruction of an isolated invasion event from a known source: the 50-year invasion history of Opuntia stricta in the Kruger National Park. Our aim was to explore the relative roles of environment and propagule supply in shaping the invasion pattern. Environmental variables (landscape heterogeneity and distance from water sources) were moderately useful for explaining the presence/absence of O. stricta in 1-ha cells across the 660 km
20172042|Aim: The rate of grassland invasion by trees depends on the ability of the species to invade, i.e. their invasiveness, and on the susceptibility of the environments to invasion, i.e. their invasibility. Knowledge of the invasiveness of native and introduced tree species and of the environmental factors that contribute to invasibility is necessary to understand landscape evolution and assess required management measures. Our main aim was to explore this by estimating the separate effects of propagule pressure and environmental factors on the spatio-temporal patterns of sapling recruitment, a key stage in the tree life cycle. Location: Causse Mejean calcareous plateau (southern France). Methods: The effects of seed supply and environmental variables (grazing, geological substrate, and duration or intensity of drought) on the spatio-temporal patterns of sapling recruitment were assessed for the native Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) and the introduced black pine (Pinus nigra Arn. ssp. nigra). Estimates were derived by inverse modelling with data of locations and ages of 4- to 20-year-old saplings and seed-bearing trees in 32 sites. Yearly indices of drought were derived from a soil-water content model. Results: For both species, seed supply was as important as the whole set of environmental factors in explaining sapling recruitment rates. Grazing and the duration of drought from July to August decreased sapling recruitment rates, which were also lower on hard limestone than on dolomite. Dispersal distances and effective fecundities were higher for the introduced P. nigra, which was less susceptible to drought but more affected by grazing than the native P. sylvestris. In grazed grasslands, shrubs facilitated sapling establishment of both species. Main conclusions: This study shows how seed supply and environmental factors shape spatio-temporal patterns of sapling recruitment for trees invading grasslands. Implications for landscape evolution and management, of the difference in invasiveness of the two pine species and of the hierarchy of environmental factors in determining invasibility, are discussed.
2673371|Species richness, abundance, size-class distribution, climbing mode and spatial patterns of lianas were investigated in a 30-ha permanent plot of tropical evergreen forest at Varagalaiar in the Anamalais, Western Ghats, India. Each hectare was subdivided into 10 m  10 m quadrats, in which all lianas  1 cm d.b.h. were measured, tagged and identified. The total liana density was 11, 200 individuals (373 ha-1) and species richness was 75 species, representing 66 genera and 37 families. The richness estimators employed for species and family accumulation curves after 100 times randomization of sample order, have stabilized the curves at 16th and 15th hectares, respectively. A greater proportion of lianas was twiners (55% of species and 44.4% of density) and root climbers (5% of species and 14% of density), and a few were tendril climbers, reflecting the late successional stage of the forest. In the size-class distribution, 82% of abundance and 97% of species richness fell within 1-3 cm diameter threshold. The dominance of succulent diaspore type signifies the faunal dependence of lianas on vertebrate frugivores for dispersal. The diversity, population density and family composition of lianas of our site is compared with those of other tropical forests. The need for biomonitoring of this synusia in the permanent plot for forest functioning is emphasized.
3696855|Sharp ecological transitions in space (ecotones, edges, boundaries) often are where ecologically important events occur, such as elevated or reduced biodiversity or altered ecological functions (e.g. changes in productivity, pollination rates or parasitism loads, nesting success). While human observers often identify these transitions by using intuitive or gestalt assignments (e.g. the boundary between a remnant woodland patch and the surrounding farm paddock seems obvious), it is clearly desirable to make statistical assessments based on measurements. These assessments often are straightforward to make if the data are univariate, but identifying boundaries or transitions using compositional or multivariate data sets is more difficult. There is a need for an intermediate step in which pairwise similarities between points or temporal samples are computed. Here, I describe an approach that treats points along a transect as alternative hypotheses (models) about the location of the boundary. Carlin and Chib (1995) introduced a Bayesian technique for comparing non-hierarchical models, which I adapted to compute the probabilities of each boundary location (i.e. a model) relative to the ensemble of models constituting the set of possible points of the boundary along the transect. Several artificial data sets and two field data sets (on vegetation and soils and on cave-dwelling invertebrates and microclimates) are used to illustrate the approach. The method can be extended to cases in with several boundaries along a gradient, such as where there is an ecotone of non-zero thickness.
3696906|Climate change will ultimately affect the supply and quality of freshwater lakes and rivers throughout the world. This study examines the potential impacts of climate change on freshwater fish distributions in Canada. Climate normals data (means from 1961 to 1990) from Environment Canada were used to map current climate found throughout the tertiary watersheds of Canada. Logistic regressions based on these climate data were used to develop predictive presence-absence equations for (a) common commercially and recreationally important species and (b) an Arctic freshwater species and a freshwater fish species of conservation significance listed by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife (COSEWIC). The Canadian Centre for Climate Modelling and Analysis Global Coupled Model 2(IS92a) provided forecasts of Canada's climate in 2020 and 2050. The data from this scenario and the logistic regressions provided a ready framework for predicting the potential distributions of the fishes. Physical and ecological barriers would have to be overcome for the distribution of these species to actually change in response to climate change. Generally, coldwater species may be extirpated from much of their present range while cool and warm-water species may expand northward. Species that are limited to the most southern regions of the country may expand northwards. A conceptual framework for assessing potential climate change impacts on fishes and the variety of management strategies required to deal with these impacts are discussed. Our forecasts demonstrate the need for climate change assessments in species at risk as well as for common species.
20171989|Riparian habitats are particularly susceptible to invasion by non-native plants. At present, attempts to build consensus as to what the primary drivers of plant invasion in riparian ecosystems might be is hindered by the absence of common standards for data collected on plant species (e.g. occurrence, or relative abundance). Mimulus guttatus L., a non-native riparian plant species, was used as a model to determine how environmental drivers influence two aspects of invasibility: species occurrence and abundance (assessed in relation to three variables number of patches, patch area and number of stems per patch). Mimulus occurrence and abundance, together with 20 environmental variables, were surveyed in almost 700 contiguous 50-m-long riverbank segments within a catchment in north-east Scotland. More than half of the segments had been colonized by Mimulus. Occurrence and number of patches responded to similar environmental gradients, particularly bare sediment, boulders, high soil moisture, short-statured ruderal communities, and open canopies, and tended to be highest downstream where the river was widest. In contrast to occurrence and patch number, patch area and stem number per patch were higher in the upper reaches of the catchment and were positively associated with low tree canopy and vegetation dominated by light-demanding species and smaller-statured species. Patch area and stem number per patch were also positively related to grazing. This study has highlighted the importance of assessing more than one measure of invasion success (occurrence or patch number and either patch area or stem number per patch), as they are each determined by a different suite of environmental variables. Abiotic factors, such as sediment availability and presence of boulders, appeared to be the major determinants of occurrence and patch number, whereas biotic factors, such as interspecific competition and grazing, were more important ecological determinants underlying area and stem number per patch.
2673416|Hypotheses of biogeographic homology constitute the basis of historical biogeography. Primary biogeographic homology refers to a conjecture on a common biogeographic history, and secondary biogeographic homology refers to the cladistic test of the formerly recognized homology. Panbiogeography deals with the former, through the recognition of generalized tracks and areas of endemism, whereas cladistic biogeography deals with the latter, through the generation of general area cladograms. A historical biogeographic analysis may include both approaches, in a two-stage analysis
40800779|Aim Urbanization and deforestation are important drivers of biodiversity change. However, long-term changes in faunal communities within urbanizing regions are poorly understood. We investigated how well observed community changes in both space and time agree with expectations based on current paradigms in urban ecology. Location Greater Brisbane region, Australia. Methods We compared bird assemblages in two time-periods 15 years apart, at multiple sites in remnant forest and residential suburbs across an urbanizing landscape. Differences in assemblage composition, species abundances and functional groupings were assessed within and between habitats. Results Compared with forest, suburbs in both time-periods had over twice the total bird abundance, a different species composition, greater between-site community similarity, a greater proportion of non-native species and greater dominance by large-bodied species. These differences corresponded with changes in sites whose habitat was converted from forest to suburb. Between time-periods, abundances of 58% of suburban species changed significantly compared with those of 11% in forest. Increaser species outnumbered decreasers in suburbs, with the reverse in forest. Abundance of small-bodied birds decreased 70% in suburbs and 20% in forest. Broad-spectrum competitors and nest predators were common among suburban increasers. Among invasive species, the number of increasers was counterbalanced by decreasers. Both site-scale species richness and betweensite community similarity increased to a small extent in both habitats. Main conclusions Species composition and ecological function of suburban bird communities were very dynamic. Suburban assemblages were neither a subset of forest species nor an increasingly non-native compilation. Communities in large forest patches were comparatively stable. The notion of habitat-specific species turnover better characterizes the nature of most changes than either species decline or homogenization, even though both of these were evident. There is considerable scope for careful urban planning, focused on both among-and within-habitat variety, to sustain bird diversity in urbanizing landscapes.
2673283|The paper firstly discusses the importance of accounting for interyear variability when assessing the likelihood of establishment of an alien pest. The potential establishment of Colorado beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata) is used as an illustration within the geographical context of England and Wales. An aggregate risk index is introduced as a probabilistic representation of the likelihood that a pest might complete a single generation over a 30-year period (1961-90). Data for individual years were used to compute, objectively, the interyear distribution of risk across the landscape. The standard deviation in area at risk (26 800 km<sup>2</sup>) was high relative to the average proportion of the landscape potentially at risk (95 700 km<sup>2</sup>). In 40% of years, the area at risk was estimated to be higher than 'average'. Secondly, the paper demonstrates multiple indices of risk that reflect different aspects of pest risk assessment. Viewing risk from a variety of perspectives provides a means of gauging the consistency and therefore reliability of the results. This contrasts with current practice, where a single mapped output is commonly presented to decision makers. Modelling using a daily time step allowed the use of indices to investigate the long-term probabilities of biotic and abiotic events of short duration. These indices include estimates of pest activity and flight potential.
3696832|Limiting the damage by non-indigenous species requires rapid determination of current and potential distributions and vectors of dispersal, and development of appropriate management measures. The emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis), a wood-boring beetle native to South-East Asia, was first reported in the Great Lakes region during summer 2002. The beetle poses an enormous threat to native ash (Fraxinus) species of North America, as untreated trees in infested areas of Ontario, Michigan and Ohio suffer high mortality. We demonstrate that the borer has spread in North America through a combination of diffusive range extension, associated with local flights, and by long-distance 'jump' dispersal associated with human movement of infested sapling or contaminated firewood. Probability of infestation was inversely related to distance from borer epicentres but positively related to the size of human population centres. At least 9 of 39 populations that were first reported in Michigan during 2004 cannot be accounted for by local diffusion, raising the possibility that other unidentified mechanisms may be contributing to the dispersal of the beetle. In the absence of quarantine, by 2005 all of Michigan's lower peninsula was contained within the boundaries of potential diffusive range expansion. Infested ash saplings also were introduced from Michigan to Maryland during 2003, and subsequently transplanted to five sites in Maryland and Virginia. Quarantine and eradication measures have had mixed results: in the south-central USA, the species appears on the brink of eradication, whereas its distribution has continued to spread during 2005 in the Great Lakes region despite extensive containment and quarantine measures. Quarantine success in the Great Lakes region is encumbered by multiple dispersal vectors, larger borer population sizes and by the more extensive geographical distribution that was achieved prior to implementation of control measures.
3246683|Local habitat characteristics are often used to describe a species' niche despite the fact that habitat use can vary across the geographical range. We sought to quantify variation in habitat preferences by asking how nesting habit varies within and between populations of Bell's vireo (Vireo bellii) across its geographical range. Analyses of detailed nest placement data from three localities (Kansas, eastern New Mexico and western New Mexico) showed a general trend towards use of dense vegetation. However, there was substantial variation in nest placement and vegetation at nest sites between localities. Furthermore, a review of nest placement data from the literature shows strong differences in nest heights and species of trees even between populations less than 100 km apart. We evaluate these results in light of conservation and suggest that to be most effective, habitat conservation plans should be based on data collected at the locality where the population of interest occurs.
40930614|Aim Hydrological disconnection of floodplains from rivers is among the top factors threatening river-floodplain ecosystems. To keep enough floodplain area is of great importance to biodiversity conservation. In the Yangtze River floodplain, most lakes were disconnected from the mainstream by dams in 1950-1970s. By analysing fish diversity data, we aim at determining the effects of river-lake disconnection on fish diversity, at estimating the minimum protected area of river-connected lakes and at proposing a holistic strategy for fish conservation in the mid-lower reaches of the river. Location The Yangtze River floodplain, China. Methods We collected recorded data of fish diversity of 30 Yangtze floodplain lakes. Species-area relationships were analysed and compared between river-connected and river-disconnected lakes. Cumulative species-area models were constructed to estimate the minimum protected area of river-connected lakes. Results River-lake disconnection reduced fish diversity of Yangtze lakes by 38.1%, so that the river-connected lakes play an important role in maintaining the floodplain biodiversity. The minimum protected area of river-connected lakes was estimated to be 14,400 km. Therefore, we should not only protect the existent connected lakes of 5500 km, but also reconnect disconnected lakes of at least 8900 km in the Yangtze basin. Main conclusions Species-area relationships are of importance in reserve design. We suggest that cumulative species-area model might be more suitable for ecosystems with high connectivity among regions such as floodplains. As the Yangtze River floodplain is an integrative ecosystem, we suggest establishing a holistic nature reserve in the mid-lower basin for effective conservation of biodiversity.
20532109|Aim: To relate the recent Iberian lynx decline to changes in the distribution of the European rabbit after the haemorrhagic disease outbreak of 1989. As Iberian rabbits evolved in two geographically separated lineages, being the recent lynx range practically restricted to the southwestern lineage, we also test if differential range dynamics exists for these lineages, with the consequent implications for lynx conservation and reintroduction planning. Location: The Iberian Peninsula. Methods: We modelled environmental favourability for the lynx based on its distribution before 1989, and for the rabbit using distribution data collected primarily after 1989, and validated them using independent abundance data. We compared both models and combined them in a lynx occurrence forecast. We correlated the prevalence of southwestern rabbit lineage with the environmental favourability for the rabbit. Results: The environmental lynx model correlated with past lynx abundance data, but did not reflect its recent strong range contraction. The rabbit model correlated with recent rabbit abundance, but was negatively correlated with the environmental model for the lynx. The combination of both models forecasted lynx occurrence in a few separated nuclei, which encompass all recent lynx records. The prevalence of rabbit's southwestern lineage correlated negatively with favourability for the rabbit. Main conclusions: The region to which the lynx became confined before 1989 is currently less favourable for rabbits, whereas more favourable areas remain outside lynx reach. This differential favourability correlates with rabbit phylogeographical structure, suggesting that the southwestern lineage is facing more unfavourable conditions or is less resilient to recent diseases. The loss of concordance between lynx distribution and the whole rabbit phylogeographical structure has prevented lynx persistence in northeastern rabbit lineage areas, which should be considered in lynx reintroduction planning. Similar conservation problems could affect other ecologically interacting species whose distributions' overlapping has sharply diminished.
3246794|Pollen records from the western Great Lakes region of North America show substantial increases in birch pollen percentages during the late Holocene. The vegetational and population dynamics underlying the birch increase have received little attention, in part because of the inability to discriminate among species of birch based on pollen morphology. We used analyses of pollen and plant macrofossils from four lakes in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to document that the birch pollen increase represents a regional expansion of yellow birch (Betula alleghaniensis) populations, which was initiated c. 4500 years ago. Whether yellow birch invaded the region at this time or simply expanded from small, previously established populations is not clear, although it probably did not grow near our study sites before the expansion. The initial expansion occurred during an independently documented period of high moisture and high water levels in Lake Michigan. A subsequent expansion in yellow birch abundance and distribution occurred c. 3000 years ago, coinciding with a second period of increased moisture and high lake-levels. The yellow birch expansion may have been modulated by millennial-scale climate variability, with most rapid expansion occurring during relatively wet periods.
4124778|Axioms developed from island biogeography theory (i.e. species-area relationships, effects of fragmentation and isolation) are central to the development of conservation strategy. Within this context, the 'extinction debt' hypothesis brings into question an often assumed relationship between species richness and present-day spatial habitat structure (i.e. extent, fragmentation), suggesting instead that the richness and composition of biological communities may lag behind spatial changes in habitat. We examined evidence for an extinction debt among epiphytic lichens, a highly diverse biological group of significant conservation concern. Using sites in Scotland, we compared epiphyte species richness in smaller-scale habitat units (aspen stands) to larger-scale woodland structure (extent and fragmentation) measured at two spatial scales (1 km
3246785|Concern over biological invasions has drawn increased attention to the impacts of introduced predators or competitors, but not to the importance of introduced prey. North American forests are rich in introduced invertebrates, including species that represent relatively novel taxonomic or trophic guilds and show biased distributions among forest types. We analysed the diets of red-backed salamanders, Plethodon cinereus, from three upland and three lowland forests to determine whether introduced prey are important contributors to geographical or temporal variation in salamander food resources. We found several introduced species were volumetrically important salamander prey, and were responsible for resource differences between forest types and much of the seasonal fluctuation in food resources in both forest types. In lowland forests, rain had a stronger effect on salamander predation on non-native earthworms than native taxa, creating more dynamic resource fluctuations in resource levels than was observed in upland forests where earthworms were absent. With one exception, predation on non-native species was positively associated with predation on native species, suggesting non-native prey have added to salamander resources rather than replaced salamander predation on native taxa. We hypothesize that the novel resource gradients created by non-native prey introductions are contributing to patterns of geographical and temporal phenotypic variation among salamander populations.
3696904|Biological invasions can dramatically alter ecosystems. An ability to predict the establishment success for exotic species is important for biosecurity and conservation purposes. I examine the exotic New Zealand ant fauna for characteristics that predict or determine an exotic species' ability to establish. Quarantine records show interceptions of 66 ant species: 17 of which have established, 43 have failed to establish, whereas nests of another six are periodically observed but have failed to establish permanently (called 'ephemeral' establishment). Mean temperature at the highest latitude and interception variables were the only factors significantly different between established, failed or ephemeral groups. Aspects of life history, such as competitive behaviour and morphology, were not different between groups. However, in a stepwise discriminant analysis, small size was a key factor influencing establishment success. Interception rate and climate were also secondarily important. The resulting classification table predicted establishment success with 71% accuracy. Because not all exotic species are represented in quarantine records, a further discriminant model is described without interception data. Though with less accuracy (65%) than the full model, it still correctly predicted the success or failure of four species not used in the previous analysis. Techniques for improving the prediction accuracy are discussed. Predicting which species will establish in a new area appears an achievable goal, which will be a valuable tool for conservation biology.
2999811|Accumulation curves were fitted to faunal lists for moths of the family Sphingididae for three Mexican sites. Information coming from both museum data and ad hoc inventory efforts was used and compared. Two different accumulation models were used to extrapolate predictions of fauna sizes, and a non-parametric method was used to validate the results of the models. One of the models was found to provide practical and informative extrapolations of fauna size, with the non-parametric method also being useful when detailed information on specimen frequencies is available.
3696921|Biotic homogenization is occurring in many biota as widespread introduced species are replacing unique native species. Although efforts to document homogenization have increased, no studies have explicitly compared the homogenizing effects of species introduced from distant areas to the homogenizing effects of species introduced from more proximate areas. The author analysed three data sets, at different scales and in different taxa, that distinguish species introduced from distant sources (e.g. outside the US) from species introduced from less distant sources (e.g. within the United States). These data include: plant introductions among eight major US cities and fish introductions among 12 US states and among 10 watersheds from New York state. The authors found that, for all data sets, species introduced from less distant sources (within the US) have a greater homogenizing effect on community composition than species from more distant sources (outside the US). In agreement with other studies, the author also find that, in terms of absolute numbers, introductions from nearby sources are far more frequent than introduction of species from distant sources. While tentative, these findings point out the importance of considering species introduced from nearby areas (e.g., extralimital native species) when discussing biotic homogenization from human activities.
2673281|The current avifauna of New Zealand comprises species with two distinct origins: those that evolved in New Zealand or colonized naturally from neighbouring landmasses, and those that were deliberately introduced to the islands by European settlers. Elsewhere, it has been shown that for species introduced to New Zealand from Britain there is a positive interspecific correlation between the geographical range sizes attained in both countries. Since positive relationships between abundance, measured either as population size or density, and geographical range size are a near ubiquitous feature of assemblages of closely related animal species, this suggests that species' abundances may also be so correlated between the two countries. Here, data for 12 passerine bird species introduced to New Zealand from Britain are used to compare population densities and density-range size relationships in their native and alien ranges. In addition, the density-range size relationship for 12 passerine bird species that can be considered native to New Zealand is compared to that for the introduced species. The geographical range size and the mean and maximum densities of introduced species in New Zealand were significantly positively correlated with those values for the same species in Britain. However, in no case was the relationship between mean density and range size significant. While not statistically significant, density-range size relationships for introduced species are similar in New Zealand and Britain, but those for introduced and native species in New Zealand are quite different. Implications of these patterns are discussed.
3696907|Escape from enemies in the native range is often assumed to contribute to the successful invasion of exotic species. Following optimal defence theory, which assumes a trade-off between herbivore resistance and plant growth, some have predicted that the success of invasive species could be the result of the evolution of lower resistance to herbivores and increased allocation of resources to growth and reproduction. Lack of evidence for ubiquitous costs of producing plant toxins, and the recognition that invasive species may escape specialist, but not generalist enemies, has led to a new prediction: invasive species may escape ecological trade-offs associated with specialist herbivores, and evolve increased, rather than decreased, production of defensive compounds that are effective at deterring generalist herbivores in the introduced range. We tested the performance of two generalist lepidopteran herbivores, Trichoplusia ni and Orgyia vetusta, when raised on diets of native and invasive populations of the California poppy, Eschscholzia californica. Pupae of T. ni were significantly larger when reared on native populations. Similarly, caterpillars of O. vetusta performed significantly better when raised on native populations, indicating that invasive populations of the California poppy are more resistant to herbivores than native populations. The chance of successful establishment of some non-indigenous plant species may be increased by retaining resistance to generalist herbivores, and in some cases, invasive species may be able to escape ecological trade-offs in their new range and evolve, as we observed, even greater resistance to generalist herbivores than native plants.
20172006|Determining relationships between the ranges of introduced species and geographical and environmental factors is an important step in understanding the mechanisms and processes of the spread of introduced species. In this study, I examined the beta diversity and latitude relationship for all naturalized exotic species of vascular plants in North America at a continental scale. Beta diversity was calculated as the absolute value of the slope of the relationship between the natural logarithm of the Simpson index of similarity (lnS) and spatial distance between pairs of state-level exotic floras within four latitudinal zones examined. Relative contributions of spatial distance and environmental difference to species turnover between exotic floras were examined. I found that beta diversity decreased monotonically from low to high latitudes: beta diversity for the southernmost zone was shallower than that for the northernmost zone by a factor of 2.6. Regression models of lnS in relation to spatial distance and environmental (climatic and topographical) difference for each latitudinal zone demonstrated that the explanatory power of these variables diminishes monotonically with latitude: the explained variance in lnS is 70.4%, 62.1%, 53.9%, and 33.9%, respectively, for the four latitudinal zones from south to north. For the southernmost zone, 58.3% of the variance in lnS is explained by climate variables and topography, and spatial distance explains only 2.3% of the variance. In contrast, for the northernmost zone, more than half the amount (22.5%) of the explained variance in lnS is attributable to spatial distance, and the remaining (18.9%) of the explained variance is attributable to climate variables and topography.
3246713|To determine whether host species influence the composition of fungal communities, the ascomycetes and basidiomycetes present on three tree species (Prioria copaifera (Fabaceae), Quararibea asterolepis (Bombacaceae), and Trichilia tuberculata (Meliaceae)) were sampled on the 50-ha Forest Dynamics Project plot in lowland moist tropical forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. The most abundant fungal morphotypes of both ascomycetes and basidiomycetes were generalists found on all three hosts, but detrended correspondence analysis revealed distinct differences in fungal community composition among host trees. These differences among hosts were constant across census years. Randomization tests revealed that there were significantly fewer host-generalist fungi than expected for ascomycetes but not for basidiomycetes. These results indicate that host composition plays a role in structuring both ascomycete and basidiomycete fungal communities, but that the most successful fungal morphotypes are capable of colonizing multiple host species.
4539955|Native to much of Central and South America, the little fire ant Wasmannia auropunctata has been rapidly spreading throughout the world. In its introduced range, W. auropunctata is frequently linked with drastic reductions of ant diversity; anecdotal reports of damaging attacks on vertebrates are also common. As it poses an ever-increasing threat to biodiversity, W. auropunctata has emerged as a model system for the study of ecological differences between native and invasive ant populations. These studies have been hampered by a lack of information on the genetic relatedness between native and introduced populations. By investigating the genetic structure of W. auropunctata populations, we provide a framework for conducting phylogenetically independent tests of differences between these ants in their native and invasive ranges. Phylogenetic analyses, based on the cox1/cox2 region of mtDNA, revealed at least three separate source populations of W. auropunctata distributed across two large clades. Much of the Caribbean region, presumably part of the native range, is inhabited by a clade of ants sharing very similar or identical mtDNA haplotypes, suggesting the possibility of multiple introductions or high levels of gene flow across that area. Most invasive populations in the Pacific were closely related to these ants. The invasive populations in Gabon and New Caledonia arise from another, relatively distantly related clade. Phylogenetically independent contrasts confirm McGlynn's (1999) observation that invasive W. auropunctata populations are smaller than native populations. Given the complex phylogeographical structure of W. auropunctata populations, future comparative work should correct for phylogenetic effects.
3246696|Previous ordination studies of land snail community composition have been limited to four or fewer habitat types from sites separated by no more than 300 km. To investigate the nature of large-scale patterns, North American land snail assemblages at 421 sites, representing 26 habitat types and covering a 1400 x 800 km area, were ordinated using global, nonmetric multi-dimensional scaling (NMDS). These data were then subjected to model-based cluster analysis and kmeans clustering to identify the main compositional groups and most important environmental covariables. Six primary compositional groups were identified. Three of these largely represent upland forest and rock outcrop sites, while the remaining largely represent either lowland forest, lowland grassland or upland grassland habitats. The geographical location and moisture level of sites also influences community composition. A strong compositional difference exists between sites having duff vs. turf soil surface layers. Only 8% of sites were improperly classified when soil surface architecture was used as the sole predictor variable. Fully 43% of taxa exhibited significant preferences towards one of these surface types, while only 15% of relatively common (10 + occurrence) taxa showed no preferences. Twelve groups of closely related taxa within the same genus had members that favoured different surface types, indicating that differential selection pressures have existed over evolutionary time scales. While turf faunas appeared unaffected by anthropogenic disturbance, duff faunas were strongly impacted, suggesting that their conservation will require protection of soil surface architecture.
20171998|Previous studies have shown that macroecological variables such as body size and geographical range size may influence the probability of a species being described. We evaluated the description pattern of tiger moth species from the Brazilian Cerrado, and tested whether the date of description was influenced by the species biological attributes (body size, colour pattern, geographical range size, altitudinal range, latitudinal range, longitudinal range, degree of specificity to the Cerrado, and number of species of the same genus). The relationship between date of description for several arctiid taxa and predictor variables was investigated using simple and multiple regressions. All predictor variables explained significant variance in the year of description in some arctiid taxonomic groups. However, the relative importance of each predictor varied among taxa. Our analyses suggested that the tiger moths yet to be discovered in the Cerrado region will probably be small, with a restricted distribution, and endemic to the biome. We also showed, for the first time, that colour pattern is a significant variable in determining the description date of an animal group, with aposematic species being described first. We noted a significant decrease in numbers of tiger moth taxonomists in recent decades. The training of new tiger moth taxonomists is urgent because there is a significant relationship between the number of taxonomists and the number of described species.
41242818|Aim Invasive alien species usually exhibit very high adaptation and rapid evolution in a new environment, but they often have low levels of genetic diversity (invasive species paradox). Genetic variation and population genetic structure of feral American mink, Neovison vison, in Poland was investigated to explain the invasion paradox and to assess current gene flow. Furthermore, the influence of mink farming on adaptation of the feral population was evaluated by comparing the genetic structure of feral and ranch mink. Location Samples from feral mink were collected in 11 study areas in northern and central Poland and from ranch mink at 10 farms distributed throughout the country. Methods A 373-bp-long mtDNA control region fragment was amplified from 276 feral and 166 ranch mink. Results Overall, 31 haplotypes, belonging to two groups from genetically diverse sources, were detected: 11 only in feral mink, 12 only in ranch mink and eight in both. The genetic differentiation of feral mink from the trapping sites was high, while that among ranch mink from various farms was moderate. There was no significant relationship between genetic and geographic distance. The number of trapping sites where given haplotypes occurred correlated with the number of farms with these haplotypes. The mink from two sites were the most divergent, both from all other feral mink and from ranch mink. Comparison of mtDNA and microsatellite differentiation suggests male-biased dispersal in this species. Main conclusions American mink in Poland exhibit high genetic diversity and originate from different source opulations of their native range. The process of colonization was triggered by numerous escapees from various farms and by immigrants from Belarus. The genetic structure of local feral mink populations was shaped by the founder effect and multiple introductions. The genomic admixture that occurred during mixing of different populations might have increased the fitness of individuals and accelerated the invasiveness of this species.
41242835|Aim The use of host-specific biological control agents is widely considered an effective option for the management of invasive alien plant species. However, the formation of novel associations between released biological control agents and indigenous species poses risks. Here, we investigate whether native food webs associated with two galling biological control agents on Acacia longifolia and A. saligna are similar to those found in their introduced range. Location Gall inhabitants recorded from South Africa and Australia. Methods Non-targeted insects were collected from galls in introduced ranges for comparisons to that of the agents' native ranges. Results We find that two host plant-specific galling biological control agents accumulate food web links with higher trophic levels in their introduced range that are similar in number, taxonomic/phylogenetic pattern and guild composition to those in their native range. Bray-Curtis percentage similarity between native (Australia) and novel (South Africa) food webs was 30-50% and 50-75% at the family and superfamily taxonomic level, respectively, and 45-50% if considering shared phylogenetic diversity. Main conclusions Trichilogaster acaciaelongifoliae and Uromycladium tepperianum accumulated food webs in South Africa that are strikingly similar in complexity and structure to those that occur in their native ranges. This indicates that the structure of food webs in the introduced range could be predicted by studying food webs in the native range of a biological control agent, potentially paving the way for more effective risk assessment of weed biological control.
4539934|Many studies have tested the performance of terrestrial vertebrates as surrogates for overall species diversity, because these are commonly used in priority-setting conservation appraisals. Using a database of 3663 vertebrate species in 38 Brazilian ecoregions, we evaluated the effectiveness of various subsets for representing diversity of the entire vertebrate assemblage. Because ecoregions are established incorporating information on biotic assemblages, they are potentially more amenable to regional comparison than are national or state lists. We used 10 potential indicator groups (all species; all mammals, birds, reptiles, or amphibians; all endemic species; and endemic species within each class) to find priority sets of ecoregions that best represent the entire terrestrial vertebrate fauna. This is the first time such tests are employed to assess the effectiveness of indicator groups at the ecoregion level in Brazil. We show that patterns of species richness are highly correlated among mammals, birds, amphibians, and reptiles. Furthermore, we demonstrate that ecoregion sets selected according to endemic species richness captured more vertebrate species per unit area than sets based on overall vertebrate richness itself, or than those selected at random. Ecoregion sets based on endemic bird, endemic reptile, or endemic amphibian richness also performed well, capturing more species overall than random sets, or than those selected based on species richness of one or all vertebrate classes within ecoregions. Our results highlight the importance of evaluating biodiversity concordance and the use of indicator groups as well as aggregate species richness. We conclude that priority sets based on indicator groups provide a basis for a first assessment of priorities for conservation at an infracontinental scale. Areas with high endemism have long been highlighted for conservation of species. Our findings provide evidence that endemism is not only a worthwhile conservation goal, but also an effective surrogate for the conservation of all terrestrial vertebrates in Brazil.
3696834| Two of the major themes resulting from recent macroecological research are the central roles that body size and niche breadth may play as determinants of species geographical distribution. Unanswered questions, however, linger regarding how similarities in body size or niche breadth affect the allocation of - and -diversity across spatial scales. Using data on moth diversity in the eastern deciduous forest of North America, we tested the predictions that smaller-bodied and diet-restricted species would have lower levels of -diversity within forest stands and greater -diversity at higher sampling scales compared to larger or more generalist species. Moths were sampled using a nested sampling design consisting of three hierarchical levels: 20 forest stands, 5 sites and 3 ecoregions. Body size for 492 species was estimated as mean forewing length, and diet breadth was assessed from the published literature. Moth species were then classified according to body size (small or large) or diet breadth (generalist or restricted), and partitioning was conducted on each group. Diversity partitions for large- and small-bodied species yielded similar patterns. When observed diversity components differed from those derived from our null model, a consistent pattern was observed: -diversity was greater than expected, -diversity among forest stands was less than expected, and -diversity among sites and ecoregions was higher than expected. In contrast, diet-restricted moths contributed significantly less to stand-level -diversity than generalist feeders. Furthermore, specialists contributed to a greater proportion of -diversity across scales compared to generalist moths. Because absolute measures of -diversity among stands were greater for generalists than for restricted feeders, we suggest that regional -diversity of forest moths may be influenced by several possible factors: intraspecific aggregation of diet-restricted species, local fluctuations in population size of eruptive generalists and small geographical distributions of generalist moths than predicted by the geographical extent of putative host plants 
3246866|The use of simple terms to articulate ecological concepts can confuse ideological debates and undermine management efforts. This problem is particularly acute in studies of nonindigenous species, which alternatively have been called 'exotic', 'introduced', 'invasive' and 'naturalised', among others. Attempts to redefine commonly used terminology have proven difficult because authors are often partial to particular definitions. In an attempt to form a consensus on invasion terminology, we synthesize an invasional framework based on current models that break the invasion process into a series of consecutive, obligatory stages. Unlike previous efforts, we propose a neutral terminology based on this framework. This 'stage-based' terminology can be used to supplement terms with ambiguous meanings (e.g. invasive, introduced, naturalized, weedy, etc.), and thereby improve clarity of future studies. This approach is based on the concept of 'propagule pressure' and has the additional benefit of identifying factors affecting the success of species at each stage. Under this framework, invasions can be more objectively understood as biogeographical, rather than taxonomic, phenomena; and author preferences in the use of existing terminology can be addressed. An example of this recommended protocol might be: 'We examined distribution data to contrast the characteristics of invasive species (stages IVa and V) and noninvasive species (stages III and IVb)'.
3246711|Ecklonia radiata (C. Agardh) J. Agardh kelp beds - a characteristic feature of the near-shore environment along the south-west Australian coastline - contribute significantly to the coastal biodiversity in temperate Australia, yet, little is known about the organization of these macroalgal assemblages. By compiling existing and new data sets from habitat surveys, we have characterized and compared the structure of kelp-associated macroalgal assemblages in three regions (Marmion Lagoon, Hamelin Bay and the marine environment neighbouring the Fitzgerald River National Park) across more than 1000 kilometres of the southwest Australian coastline. 152 macroalgal taxa had been recognized within the three regions and this is in the range of species richness reported from other Australian and African kelp beds. The kelp-associated algal assemblages were regionally distinct, 66% of all taxa were only found in one region and only 17 taxa were found in all three regions. Adjacent regions shared an additional 13-15 taxa. The regional shifts in assemblage structure were evident in species composition of both canopy and understorey. The organization of assemblages followed a spatial hierarchy where differences in assemblage structure were larger among regions (hundreds of kilometres apart) than among sites within regions (kilometres apart) and differences among sites within region were larger than differences among quadrats within sites (metres apart). Despite this hierarchy each level of nesting contributed approximately the same to total variation in assemblage structure and these spatial patterns were stronger than temporal differences from seasons to 2-3 years. Our results suggest that local and small-scale processes contribute considerably to heterogeneity in macroalgal assemblages throughout south-western Australia, and, in particular, our results are consistent with E. radiata exerting a strong influence on macroalgal assemblage structure. Further, our study contradicts the existence of a general south-west Australian kelp assemblage, although a few species may form the core of E. radiata associations across regions.
3246782|The conversion of desert grasslands to shrublands is a long-standing concern in the south-western United States, but the effects of this change on native animals defy generalization. Here, I consider evidence that shrub invasion and encroachment, particularly that of honey mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa), has led to increasing ecological dominance and diversity of ants in general, as well as increases in specific native taxa. The effects of shrub invasion on ants were measured at two scales: (1) between Chihuahuan Desert landscapes that vary slightly in temperature and strongly in the dominance of mesquite, and (2) across Variation in mesquite density occurring within a generally mesquite-dominated landscape. Ant richness and numerical dominance was measured at pitfall traps over 2 years and baits were used to assess ecological dominance across different temperatures. The mesquite-dominated Jornada site harboured four times the number of ant foragers found at the relatively 'pristine' Sevilleta site, with several ecologically dominant taxa driving this pattern, especially Dorymyrmex bicolor. Species richness and ecological dominance were also greatest at the Jornada. Within the Jornada landscape, turnover in species composition was related to mesquite density, but local richness and abundance was unrelated to mesquite density. Coupled with the results of previous manipulative experiments and comparative studies, there is support for the notion that ant diversity is not negatively affected by shrub invasion but that several taxa prosper from it. The Jornada is uniquely saturated by dominant ant taxa, perhaps as a consequence of an overall high level of shrub availability that provides a reliable source of carbohydrate-rich plant exudates. This raises important questions about the relationship between environmental degradation, ecosystem productivity, and animal diversity.
4539931|Effectively summarizing complex community relationships is an important feature in studies such as biodiversity, global change, and invasion ecology. The reliability of such community summaries depends on the degree of sampling variability that is present in the data, the structure of the data, and the choice of ordination method, but the relative importance of these factors is not understood. We compared the validity of results from different ordination methods by applying five levels of sampling error to a simulated coenoplane model at two gradient lengths using two types of data (abundance and presence-absence). The multivariate methods we compared were correspondence analysis (CA), detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), principal component analysis (PCA) and principal coordinates analysis (PCoA). Our results showed CA and PCA using presence-absence data were the most successful methods regardless of sampling error and gradient length, closely followed by the other methods using presence-absence data. With abundance data, PCA and CA were the most successful approaches with the short and long gradients, respectively. Approaches based on PCoA and NMDS using abundance data did not perform well regardless of the choice of distance measure used in the analysis. Both of these methods, along with the PCA using abundance data, were strongly affected by the longer gradient, leading to more distorted results.
4539919|Generalized dissimilarity modelling (GDM) is a statistical technique for analysing and predicting spatial patterns of turnover in community composition (beta diversity) across large regions. The approach is an extension of matrix regression, designed specifically to accommodate two types of nonlinearity commonly encountered in large-scaled ecological data sets: (1) the curvilinear relationship between increasing ecological distance, and observed compositional dissimilarity, between sites; and (2) the variation in the rate of compositional turnover at different positions along environmental gradients. GDM can be further adapted to accommodate special types of biological and environmental data including, for example, information on phylogenetic relationships between species and information on barriers to dispersal between geographical locations. The approach can be applied to a wide range of assessment activities including visualization of spatial patterns in community composition, constrained environmental classification, distributional modelling of species or community types, survey gap analysis, conservation assessment, and climate-change impact assessment.
40390749|Aim Differentiation of sites or communities is often measured by partitioning regional or gamma diversity into additive or multiplicative alpha and beta components. The beta component and the ratio of within-group to total diversity (alpha/gamma) are then used to infer the compositional differentiation or similarity of the sites. There is debate about the appropriate measures and partitioning formulas for this purpose. We test the main partitioning methods, using empirical and simulated data, to see if some of these methods lead to false conclusions, and we show how to resolve the problems that we uncover. Location South America, Ecuador, Orellana province, Rio Shiripuno. Methods We construct sets of real and simulated tropical butterfly communities that can be unambiguously ranked according to their degree of differentiation. We then test whether beta and similarity measures from the different partitioning approaches rank these datasets correctly. Results The ratio of within-group diversity to total diversity does not reflect compositional similarity, when the Gini-Simpson index or Shannon entropy are used to measure diversity. Additive beta diversity based on the Gini-Simpson index does not reflect the degree of differentiation between N sites or communities. Main conclusions The ratio of within-group to total diversity (alpha/gamma) should not be used to measure the compositional similarity of groups, if diversity is equated with Shannon entropy or the Gini-Simpson index. Conversion of these measures to effective number of species solves these problems. Additive Gini-Simpson beta diversity does not directly reflect the differentiation of N samples or communities. However, when properly transformed onto the unit interval so as to remove the dependence on alpha and N, additive and multiplicative beta measures yield identical normalized measures of relative similarity and differentiation.
4539969|Human-mediated geomorphic degradation of streams and rivers is a serious environmental problem with negative effects on aquatic biota and social infrastructure. Billions of dollars are spent for stream restoration in the USA alone, but it is still unknown how algal diversity is affected by these efforts. In this investigation, we studied a geomorphically stable and heterogeneous reach and two degraded and homogeneous reaches of Batavia Kill, a highland stream in New York, USA. Spatial surveys of algae and geomorphic conditions were conducted in all three reaches for 2 years. After the first year of study, one of the two unstable reaches was subjected to a large-scale streambed restoration. Species-area relationships (SAR) were examined for the first time in local algal communities of stream periphyton. Alpha- and gamma-diversity, which represent the species richness at a sample and reach level, respectively, and cell density, were also explored. In all reaches, SAR were fitted with semi-log models, which revealed that the rate of increase of species richness with area, i.e. algal beta-diversity, was significantly higher in the geomorphically stable reach than in the two degraded reaches. Gamma-diversity followed the same trend, whereas alpha-diversity and cell density were significantly higher in the unstable reaches. Restoration significantly increased the heterogeneity of conditions, including depth and particle size. From all studied community descriptors, restoration had a benign influence on algal beta- and gamma-diversity; however, beta-diversity remained the highest in the stable reference reach and this difference was significant. Our results provide guidelines for the use of periphytic algae in future bioassessments of stream bank restoration. Community properties such as species richness and organismal density, which are common metrics of ecosystem health, may be inappropriate in stream restoration surveys; instead diversity measures, often overlooked in applied ecology, e.g. beta-diversity, should be given full consideration.
3696859|Xeropicta derbentina is a recently introduced land snail in Provence, France. The present work aims at describing the habitats and the land snail communities that it has invaded. Also, its impact on the species richness and diversity of indigenous communities is assessed. Two areas have been studied in order to cover the range of conditions that X. derbentina is encountering within its current French distribution. Sixty-five samples were analysed from the most Mediterranean site, Auriol, and 140 from a northern site, Craus de St-Michel-l'Observatoire. From these samples, X. derbentina is found to be a thermophilous open-land species mostly inhabiting human-impacted habitats. It occurs in large populations (more than 100 individuals collected in 15 min) in habitat characterizing the first stages of secondary successions, from cultivated crops to dense fallow lands. However, within a heterogeneous landscape and if enough time has allowed its dispersal, X. derbentina can be found in almost any kinds of habitat, such as garrigues and woodlands. Consequently, X. derbentina occurs in diverse land snail communities. At the local scale, its large populations could result in a significant decrease in species richness and diversity. At the regional scale, however, the introduction of X. derbentina seems to have increased land snail species richness.
3246867|Most ecological diversity indices summarize the information about the relative abundances of species without reflecting taxonomic differences between species. Nevertheless, in environmental conservation practice, data on species abundances are mostly irrelevant and generally unknown. In such cases, to summarize the conservation value of a given site, so-called 'taxonomic diversity' measures can be used. Such measures are based on taxonomic relations among species and ignore species relative abundances. In this paper, bridging the gap between traditional biodiversity measures and taxonomic diversity measures, I introduce a parametric diversity index that combines species relative abundances with their taxonomic distinctiveness. Due to the parametric nature of the proposed index, the contribution of rare and abundant species to each diversity measure is explicit.
41242859|Restoration and conservation initiatives, such as the eradication of invasive alien plants, should be guided by scientific evidence. Typically, ecological data alone is used to inform the decision-making of these initiatives. Recent advances in the mapping of conservation opportunity include a diverse range of scientificallyidentified factors that determine the feasibility and likely effectiveness of conservation initiatives, and include, for example, data on the willingness and capacity of land managers to be effectively involved. Social research techniques such as interview surveys, phenomenology, and social network analysis are important approaches for securing useful human and social data. These approaches are yet to be widely adopted in restoration initiatives, but could be usefully applied to improve the effective implementation of these initiatives. Restoration and conservation planners will deliver spatial prioritisations which provide more effective and cost-efficient decision-making if they include not simply ecological data, but also data on economic, human, management, social and vulnerability factors that determine implementation effectiveness.
3246780|Dioecious clades have been observed to have lower species richness than their non-dioecious sister groups indicating that dioecious species experience higher extinction rates and (or) lower speciation rates. To determine whether current threats to biodiversity may exacerbate this pattern, we examined the threat to exclusively dioecious families of angiosperms among the 13,013 species of threatened plants included in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. When examined phylogenetically, dioecious families had proportionally more species listed than their sister groups. We then examined whether ecological traits correlated with dioecy, namely tropical distribution, woody growth form, and fleshy fruits, are associated with having higher proportions of threatened species. Ignoring breeding system, woody growth form was the only trait that was associated with a greater than expected proportion of threatened species per family. Red-Listed dioecious families were more likely to have a woody growth form than non-dioecious families. Woody growth habit is likely contributing to the higher incidence of dioecious species being at risk of extinction but is not solely responsible for the pattern because higher risk within dioecious groups was also apparent in a comparison of exclusively woody sister-group pairs. Our results indicate that dioecious plants may warrant special attention in conservation practices.
3246856|Variation of biodiversity over 72 600 km
20172043| Aim: Native plant communities are susceptible to climate anomalies, which would favour the invasion of non-native species. However, climate anomalies may also provide opportunities for detecting non-native plants at a regional scale using remote sensing. Based on this mechanism, we propose a direct and effective remote sensing approach to map the abundance of South African Eragrostis lehmanniana Nees (Lehmann lovegrass), a highly invasive, non-native plant in the desert grasslands of southwestern North America. Location: The desert grassland of Fort Huachuca Military Reservation (3134N, 11026W) in southern Arizona, USA. Methods: Simple linear regression models were used to examine the relationships between additional (comparing to the normal level) remotely sensed greenness (delta Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) derived from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS)), and field actual (g m) and percentage (%) biomass of E. lehmanniana in an abnormal wet, cool period in October 2000. Results: There was a strong and positive agreement (P &lt; 0.005) between EVI and field observations (R = 0.72 and 0.64 for actual and percentage biomass of E. lehmanniana, respectively). These relationships allowed us to estimate the abundance of E. lehmanniana in the desert grassland. Main conclusions: Phenology of native grass communities is quite similar to systems dominated by E. lehmanniana but responses differ when there are substantial amounts of precipitation in cool seasons. Eragrostis lehmanniana can produce significant amount of new tissues and seeds with sufficient cool season moisture, while native grasses are still in senescence or dormancy. Therefore, amplitude of EVI during wet, cool seasons would indicate the abundance of E. lehmanniana. Long-term climate records denote an amplification of cool season precipitation in the southwestern USA. This regional climatic trend should allow us to monitor E. lehmanniana and possibly other non-native species frequently in this vast arid region. 
41058139|Aim We tested the hypothesis that anthropogenic fires favour the successful establishment of alien annual species to the detriment of natives in the Chilean coastal matorral. Location Valparaso Region, central Chile. Methods We sampled seed rain, seedbank emergence and establishment of species in four paired burned and unburned areas and compared (using GLMM) fire resistance and propagule arrival of alien and native species. To assess the relative importance of seed dispersal and seedbank survival in explaining plant establishment after fire, we compared seed rain and seedbank structure with postfire vegetation using ordination analyses. Results Fire did not change the proportion of alien species in the coastal matorral. However, fire increased the number of annual species (natives and aliens) of which 87% were aliens. Fire reduced the alien seedbank and not the native seedbank, but alien species remained dominant in burned soil samples (66% of the total species richness). Seed rain was higher for alien annuals than for native annuals or perennials, thus contributing to their establishment after fire. Nevertheless, seed rain was less important than seedbank survival in explaining plant establishment in burned areas. Main conclusions Anthropogenic fires favoured alien and native annuals. Thus, fire did not increase the alien/native ratio but increased the richness of alien species. The successful establishment of alien annuals was attributable to their ability to maintain rich seedbanks in burned areas and to the greater propagule arrival compared to native species. The native seedbank also survived fire, indicating that the herbaceous community has become highly resilient after centuries of human disturbances. Our results demonstrate that fire is a relevant factor for the maintenance of alien-dominated grasslands in the matorral and highlight the importance of considering the interactive effect of seed rain and seedbank survival to understand plant invasion patterns in fire-prone ecosystems.
2673407|Representativeness is a desirable property of conservation networks. In this paper an attempt is made to assess the efficiency of current conservation networks in Portugal in representing vertebrates (reptiles and amphibians) and plants (gymnosperms, pteridophytes and bryophytes). It was found that whilst the protected areas do not sample all species in the database they provide a better result than choosing areas at random. For the goal of maximizing representation of taxa per unit area hotspots and complementarity performed better. A pattern of over-representation of vertebrates in relation to lower plants was discovered among selected conservation areas in Portugal suggesting that charismatic organisms with large home ranges may not always be the most appropriate surrogates for biodiversity when representativeness is sought. When trying to fill the gaps in current protected areas with additional areas only complementarity performed better than choosing areas at random. Both rarity and richness hotspots gave worse results. Opportunistic administrative criteria such as supplementing the PAS with other conservation areas (CORINE Biotopes) without taking into account their contribution to a representation goal was nearly half as good as choosing areas at random. The results recall for the need of explicit goals and accountable methods in area selection for conservation and reinforce the role of complementarity for finding additional areas to protected areas when limited resources are available for `in situ' conservation.
41242800|Aim We investigated watershed-scale abiotic environmental factors associated with population establishment of one of the 'world's 100 worst alien invaders' on a temperate Atlantic island. Within the context of the conservation implications, we aimed to quantify (1) the early history and demographics (numbers and origins) of human-mediated brown trout (Salmo trutta) introductions, (2) the current distribution of established populations, and (3) the watershed-scale environmental factors that may resist or facilitate trout establishment. Location Island of Newfoundland, Canada. Methods We combined field sampling with historical and contemporary records from literature to assemble a presence-absence and physical habitat database for 312 watersheds on Newfoundland. Probability of watershed establishment was modelled with general additive ANCOVA models to control for nonlinear effects of propagule pressure (i.e. the distance to and number of invasion foci within a biologically relevant range) and model performance based on AIC. Results Between 1883 and 1906, 16 watersheds were introduced with brown trout from the Howietoun Hatchery, near Stirling, Scotland. Since that time, populations have established in 51 additional watersheds at an estimated rate of spread of 4 km per year. We did not detect any obvious abiotic barriers to resist trout establishment, but showed that for a given amount of propagule pressure that relatively large and productive watersheds were most likely to be established. Main conclusions Brown trout have successfully invaded and established populations in watersheds of Newfoundland and are currently slowly expanding on the island. Populations are more likely to establish in relatively large and productive watersheds, thereby supporting predictions of island biogeography theory. However, we suggest that all watersheds in Newfoundland are potentially susceptible to successful brown trout invasion and that abiotic factors alone are unlikely to act sufficiently as barriers to population establishment.
3696889|Where high species richness and high human population density coincide, potential exists for conflict between the imperatives of species conservation and human development. We examine the coincidence of at-risk bird species richness and human population in the countries of the tropical Andes. We then compare the performance of the expert-driven Important Bird Areas (IBA) scheme against a hypothetical protected-areas network identified with a systematic reserve selection algorithm seeking to maximize at-risk bird species representation. Our aim is to assess the degree to which: IBAs contain a higher richness of at-risk species than would be expected by chance, IBAs contain more people than would be expected by chance, and IBAs are congruent with complementary areas that maximize species representation with an equivalent number of sites. While the correlation of richness and population was low for the region as a whole, representation of all at-risk bird species required many sites to be located in areas of high human population density. IBA sites contained higher human population densities than expected by chance (P < 0.05) and were markedly less efficient in representing at-risk bird species of the region than sites selected using the reserve selection algorithm. Moreover, overlap between IBAs and these latter sites was very limited. Expert-driven selection procedures may better reflect existing sociopolitical forces, including land ownership and management regimes, but are limited in their ability to develop an efficient, integrated network of sites to represent priority species. Reserve selection algorithms may serve this end by optimizing complementarity in species representation among selected sites, whether these sites are adopted independently or as a supplement to the existing reserve network. As tools of site selection, they may be particularly useful in areas such as the tropical Andes where complex patterns of species disjunction and co-occurrence make the development of representative reserve networks particularly difficult. Furthermore, they facilitate making spatially explicit choices about how reserve sites are located in relation to human populations. We advocate their use not in replacement of approaches such as the IBA initiative but as an additional, complementary tool in ensuring that such reserve networks are developed as efficiently as practically possible.
3696872| The Uruguay River starts in Serra do Mar in Brazil, runs through the Paranense forest, and flows southward through grassland and savannas. It has a continuous gallery forest of 750 km from the southern border of the Paranense forest to the river mouth. The gallery forest extends for 100 km more along the Ro de la Plata. 125 (68.7%) of the 182 species of forest birds recorded in the southern Paranense forest penetrate into the gallery forest of the Uruguay River and only 13 (7.1%) reach the end of the gallery forest (Punta Lara). The number of bird species is inversely correlated (
3877713|We examined the influence of'seasonal fine-tuning' of climatic variables on the performance of bioclimatic envelope models of migrating birds. Using climate data and national bird atlas data from a 10 x 10 km uniform grid system in Finland, we tested whether the replacement of one 'baseline' set of variables including summer (June-August) temperature and precipitation variables with climate variables tailored ('fine-tuned') for each species individually improved the bird-climate models. The fine-tuning was conducted on the basis of time of arrival and early breeding of the species. Two generalized additive models (GAMs) were constructed for each of the 63 bird species studied, employing (1) the baseline climate variables and (2) the fine-tuned climate variables. Model performance was measured as explanatory power (deviance change) and predictive power (area under the curve; AUC) statistics derived from cross-validation. Fine-tuned climate variables provided, in many cases, statistically significantly improved model performance compared to using the same baseline set of variables for all the species. Model improvements mainly concerned bird species arriving and starting their breeding in May-June. We conclude that the use of the fine-tuned climate variables tailored for each species individually on the basis of their arrival and critical breeding periods can provide important benefits for bioclimatic modelling.
20532096|Aim: Data on geographical ranges are essential when defining the conservation status of a species, and in evaluating levels of human disturbance. Where locality data are deficient, presence-only ecological niche modelling (ENM) can provide insights into a species' potential distribution, and can aid in conservation planning. Presence-only ENM is especially important for rare, cryptic and nocturnal species, where absence is difficult to define. Here we applied ENM to carry out an anthropogenic risk assessment and set conservation priorities for three threatened species of Asian slow loris (Primates: Nycticebus). Location: Borneo, Java and Sumatra, Southeast Asia. Methods: Distribution models were built using maximum entropy (MaxEnt) ENM. We input 20 environmental variables comprising temperature, precipitation and altitude, along with species locality data. We clipped predicted distributions to forest cover and altitudinal data to generate remnant distributions. These were then applied to protected area (PA) and human land-use data, using specific criteria to define low-, medium- or high-risk areas. These data were analysed to pinpoint priority study sites, suitable reintroduction zones and protected area extensions. Results: A jackknife validation method indicated highly significant models for all three species with small sample sizes (n = 10 to 23 occurrences). The distribution models represented high habitat suitability within each species' geographical range. High-risk areas were most prevalent for the Javan slow loris (Nycticebus javanicus) on Java, with the highest proportion of low-risk areas for the Bornean slow loris (N. menagensis) on Borneo. Eighteen PA extensions and 23 priority survey sites were identified across the study region. Main conclusions: Discriminating areas of high habitat suitability lays the foundations for planning field studies and conservation initiatives. This study highlights potential reintroduction zones that will minimize anthropogenic threats to animals that are released. These data reiterate the conclusion of previous research, showing MaxEnt is a viable technique for modelling species distributions with small sample sizes.
2673310|Up to thirteen demographic, four morphological and four ecophysiological attributes were assessed in each of three studies of postfire recruitment patterns in mediterranean southwestern Australia. Three to seven of the most prominent, congeneric shrub species in each of five communities were monitored following a total of six fires, and numbers of individuals prefire were compared with those over two to four winters postfire. The proportion of individuals in each species only sometimes reflected the proportion at an earlier time. At least one species differed from the rest for twenty-six of a total of twenty-seven demographic steps assessed. Initial seedlings/parent, which was largely a function of seeds available, and, to a lesser extent, level of germination, were the most important attributes in accounting for the recruitment patterns. There was a trend for the faster growing, drought avoiding species to increase at the expense of the others. In the most comprehensive study, life form (four nonsprouting Hakea spp. v. four resprouting Hakea spp.) was the best predictor of the recovery pattern. This was through its association with seed availability and level of germination and, to a lesser extent, drought survival (all higher for nonsprouters). Leaf type, as an indicator of drought tolerance, had inconsistent predictive power between studies. The least summer stressed species, in terms of survival and water relations, tended to have the largest seedlings derived from the largest seeds, but there were notable exceptions. Within each life form category, species behaviour varied widely, making most predictions of postfire community dynamics based on relative prefire numbers little more than conjectural. However, in only one of the three studies were the trends sufficiently clear to show that postfire densities would never mirror those prefire.
2673388|The species richness of biological communities is influenced by both local ecological, regional ecological, and historical factors. The relative importance of these factors may be deduced by comparison between communities in climatically and ecologically equivalent, but geographically and historically separate regions of the world. This claim is based on the hypothesis that community processes driven by similar local ecological factors lead to convergence in species richness whereas those driven by differing regional or historical factors lead to divergence. An intercontinental comparison between the winter rainfall regions of South Africa and the Iberian Peninsula showed that overall species richness of dung beetles was dissimilar at local, subregional and regional scales in Scarabaeidae s. str: but similar at all scales in Aphodiinae. Removal of species widespread in the summer rainfall region of Africa or the temperate region of Europe (regional component) resulted in dissimilarity in species richness of mediterranean endemics at all scales in both dung beetle taxa. However, the lines joining each set of species richness values were parallel which may indicate similarities in processes between different mediterranean climatic regions despite slight differences in latitudinal range. The dominant pattern of dissimilarity or non-convergence may be related primarily to intercontinental differences in regional biogeographical and evolutionary history (faunal dispersal, glaciation effects in relation to geographical barriers to dispersal, speciation history, long-term disturbance history). The limited pattern of similarity or convergence in overall species richness of Aphodiinae may be a chance result or primarily related to intercontinental similarities in local ecological factors.
3246815|Recently, three different models have been proposed to explain the distribution of abundances in natural communities: the self-similarity model; the zero-sum ecological drift model; and the occasional-frequent species model of Magurran and Henderson. Here we study patterns of relative abundance in a large Community of forest Hymenoptera and show that it is indeed possible to divide the Community into a group of frequent species and a group of occasional species. In accordance with the third model, frequent species followed a lognormal distribution. Relative abundances of the occasional species could be described by the self-similarity model, but did not follow a log-series as proposed by the occasional-frequent model. The zero-sum ecological drift model makes no explicit predictions about frequent and occasional species but the abundance distributions of the hymenopteran species did not show the excess of rare species predicted by this model. Separate fits of this model to the frequent and to the occasional species were worse than the respective fits of the lognormal and the self-similarity model.
40800781|Aim Historical information about source populations of invasive species is often limited; therefore, genetic analyses are used. We compared inference about source populations from historical and genetic data for the oyster-associated clam, Gemma gemma that invaded California from the USA Atlantic coast. Location Mid-Atlantic (North Carolina, Maryland), Northeastern (New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts) and the California coasts (Elkhorn Slough, San Francisco Bay, Bolinas Lagoon, Tmales Bay, Bodega Harbor). Methods The documented history of transplantation of Eastern oysters to California was reviewed. Cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) sequences from recent and archived clams were examined in a haplotype network. We used AMOVA to detect geographic genetic structure and a permutation test for significant reductions in diversity. Results Chesapeake Bay oysters were transplanted to New York prior to shipment to San Francisco Bay and from there to peripheral bays. Gemma in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions were genetically differentiated. In California, populations in Bodega Harbor and Tmales Bay were genetically similar to those in the Mid-Atlantic area while clams in San Francisco Bay, Elkhorn Slough and Bolinas Lagoon resembled populations in the Northeastern region. In California, genetic variation was not highest in San Francisco Bay despite greater magnitude of oyster plantings. Haplotypes varied over time in native and introduced populations. Main Conclusions Historical records and inferences from genetics agree that both Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions were sources for Gemma in California. Only complex genetic hypotheses reconcile the strong segregation of haplotypes in California to the historical evidence of mixing in their proximate source (New York). These hypotheses include sorting of mixtures of haplotypes or selection in non-native areas. Haplotype turnover in San Francisco and Massachusetts samples over time suggests that the sorting hypothesis is plausible. We suggest, however, that Gemma was introduced independently and recently to Tmales Bay and Bodega Harbor.
20532112|Aim: This study aimed to evaluate the probability of suitable habitats in the USA for two adventive orchid bee species (Eulaema polychroma (Mocsry) and Euglossa viridissima Friese), one of which has become established in southern Florida despite the absence of its associated orchid hosts. Location: North and Central America, northern South America and the Caribbean. Methods: Using positive occurrence data within the native range of both orchid bee species, Maxent species distribution modelling was employed to evaluate the probability of suitable habitats in the USA. The power of predictability for the model was tested using partitions of the data. Results: Our results show the absence of suitable habitat in southern Arizona for E. polychroma to maintain populations there, as well as establishing the northernmost limit for the species at around 29N in north-western Mexico. Suitable habitat was found for E. viridissima in various locations throughout southern Florida. This species is predicted to spread to occupy roughly the southern half of the Florida Peninsula. Main conclusions: The findings indicate that species distribution modelling is useful for evaluating records of species occurrence outside of their native range. Our results indicate that the isolated record of a male of E. polychroma from southern Arizona should not be considered representative of an established population in the absence of further males and females from the same region. Conversely, E. viridissima has successfully become established in south-eastern Florida after a seemingly accidental introduction first noticed in the summer of 2003. We discuss the naturalization of E. viridissima in Florida, the probability of suitable habitat across the Caribbean (where orchid bees are otherwise natively absent today) and the absence of perfume orchids (Orchidaceae). Lastly, we discuss the implications of these results for understanding the biology and biogeography of Euglossini.
3877736|Ageratina adenophora (Sprengel) R. King & H. Robinson (= Eupatorium adenophorum Sprengel) is one of the worst invasive alien species in China. Since A. adenophora was first noticed in Yunnan Province of China in the 1940s, its rapid spread has caused an ecological problem in south-western China. Understanding its historical invasion pattern and its potential for further spread is needed to plan the management of the species. We reconstructed the historical process of its invasion and analysed its ecological preferences in the invaded region. After a lag phase of 20 years (1940-60), A. adenophora spread rapidly throughout the south and middle subtropical zones in Yunnan, Guizhou, Sichuan, and Guangxi, China, with an average expansion rate of 20 km per year. It spread relatively slowly in north subtropical areas, with an average expansion rate of 6.8 km per year. It has not established in warm temperate areas within the invaded regions. Although range expansion in Yunnan stopped after 1990, the expansion of its range into neighbouring provinces indicates that A. adenophora has not reached the full potential of its distribution and its range is still rapidly expanding within China. We applied ecological niche modelling (GARP - Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction) to predict potential invasion areas in mainland China on the basis of occurrence points within colonized areas where A. adenophora has reached equilibrium. The predictions, confirmed by the range of values of four key environmental parameters, generally match the parameters of the geography and ecology in the invaded region. Southern and south-central China have climatic conditions suggestive of a high potential for invasion by A. adenophora. Climatic conditions in northern and western China appear unsuitable for A. adenophora. Urgent measures should be taken to prevent this species from further spreading into the vast areas of potential habitat in southern and south-central China.
41242817|Aim Owing to their role as insect predators, web-building spiders can be important biological control agents within agricultural systems. In complex tropical agroecosystems such as agroforests, management determines plant architecture, vegetation composition and associated ant density, but little is known on how these attributes, together with landscape context, determine spider web density. We hypothesized that all three spatial scales and the presence of Philidris ants significantly contribute to the explanation of spider web density with web types being differently affected. Location In 42 differently managed cacao agroforestry systems in Sulawesi, Indonesia. Methods We surveyed the distribution of five spider-web types on 420 cacao trees to determine how these relate to habitat variables and a numerically dominant ant species at three different spatial scales, comparing tree, plot and landscape features. We fitted linear mixed-effects model, selected the best model subset using information-theoretic criteria and calculated the model-averaged estimates. We used non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) to determine and visualize guild level responses to the effects of the tree, plot and landscapescale variables. Results The five spider guilds preferred different features of cacao tree architecture. Most frequently recorded webs belonged to the line-and orb-web type. At the tree scale, overall web density was positively related to canopy openness. At the plot scale, a higher number of shade trees was related to a higher web density. At the landscape scale, the altitude determined the distribution patterns of web-building spiders. Presence of Philidris ants was positively associated with density of orb webs, while no pattern was found for other web types. Main conclusions Results suggest spider web density could be increased by pruning of cacao trees while keeping shade trees at high density in cacao plots. The results emphasize the need to consider scale dependency of crop management and web-guild-specific responses that may be related to different functional roles of spiders as a high-density predator group in agroforestry.
3246693|Scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius (L.) Link; Fabaceae) is a problematic invasive plant in many countries, and while attention has been paid to traits that make it a successful invader, there has been less focus on the properties of ecosystems that it invades. We conducted an experiment in a New Zealand montane shrubland with tussock grasses that has been invaded by Scotch broom to determine features that rendered it susceptible to invasion. We planted broom seedlings into the shrubland (control) and into three treatments: (1) resident shrubs removed, (2) tussocks removed and (3) shrubs and tussocks removed. We measured broom seedling mortality and growth over two growing seasons. The site was grazed by sheep in the first season, and scarcely grazed in the second, wetter season. Survivorship across all treatments after 19 months was 42%, and was lowest where shrubs were retained but tussocks removed. Broom seedlings grew taller and had greater leaf areas in treatments that retained shrubs. Neighbouring (within 49 cm) shrubs had no effects on survivorship or growth of broom seedlings. Neighbouring tussocks increased survivorship of broom seedlings but depressed their growth. Grazing by sheep was the most important determinant of survivorship and growth of broom seedlings, and effects were uniform regardless of experimental treatments. Initial high mortality of seedlings (48% in the first 3 months) was due to grazing, and height growth was often negative during periods of grazing. In the second growing season when the site was less grazed and there was greater rainfall, there was a rapid increase in height across all treatments. Continued grazing of the site by sheep is likely to be the chief means of retarding the invasion.
40604233|Aim There has been considerable recent interest in modelling the potential distributions of invasive species. However, research has developed in two opposite directions: the first, focusing on screening, utilizes phenomenological models; the second, focusing on predictions of invasion dynamics, utilizes mechanistic models. Here, we present hybrid modelling as an approach to bridge the gap and to integrate the advantages of both research directions. Location Global. Methods First, we briefly summarize the characteristics and limitations of both approaches (screening vs. understanding). Then, we review the recent developments of hybrid models, discuss their current problems and offer suggestions to improve them. Results Generally, hybrid models are able to combine the advantages of currently used phenomenological and mechanistic approaches. Main challenges in building hybrid models are the choices of the appropriate degree of detail and efficiency and the decision on how to connect the different sub-models. Given these challenges, we discuss the links between the phenomenological and the mechanistic model parameters, the underlying concepts of fundamental and realized niches and the problem of feedback loops between population dynamics and environmental factors. Main conclusions Once the above challenges have been addressed and the necessary framework has been developed, hybrid models will provide outstanding tools for overcoming past limitations and will provide the means to make reliable and robust predictions of the potential distribution of invasive species, their population dynamics and the potential outcomes of the overall invasion process.
4539941|It is widely documented that human activities have elevated the extirpation of natural populations as well as the successful introduction to new areas of non-native species. These dual processes of introduction and extirpation can change the similarity of communities, but the direction and magnitude these changes take are likely to depend on the manner in which introductions and extirpations occur, the spatial scale at which the changes are measured, and the initial similarity of the communities before the human-induced drivers occurred. Here, we explore patterns of extirpation and introduction and their influence on the similarity of global oceanic island bird assemblages from four different Oceans (Atlantic, Caribbean, Indian, Pacific). We show that different historical patterns of introduction and extirpation have produced varying trends in compositional similarity both between islands within archipelagos and between islands across different archipelagos within the same ocean. Patterns of bird assemblage convergence (i.e. taxonomic homogenization) or divergence (i.e. taxonomic differentiation) among islands depended on the scale of examination, the evolutionary associations among species of the region, and the cultural history of human colonization. These factors are all likely to be leading to a series of multiple interacting processes that are shaping the complex compositional changes observed among global island bird faunas over time.
2999829|Five species of spiders from the families Theridiidae (Nesticoides rufipes), Sicariidae (Loxosceles similis and Sicarius tropicus), Oecobidae (Oecobius annulces) and Corinnidae were found on bat guano piles in the Morrinho cave (Bahia state, Brazil). Species richness of spiders was positively correlated with the area of the guano piles and silverfish abundance, and negatively correlated with the distance from the cave entrance. The positive relationship found between spider richness and diversity with area of the piles is presumably because prey abundance is positively correlated with pile size. The relationship between distance from the cave entrance and spider richness may be due to different colonization abilities of each spider family. Spider diversity was positively correlated only with pile area, while pH of the piles (which may be indicative of age) did not show correlation with any other parameters.
40390778|Aim Understanding the factors underlying the successful establishment of invasive ant species is critical for developing quarantine strategies to prevent additional invasions as well as for determining how such species overcome the selective pressures in invaded areas. Although several studies have revealed differences in the social organization and population genetics of invasive ants in their native and introduced ranges, few studies have considered the potential interactions between alternate social forms within newly-invaded areas simply because many invasive ants are characterized as polygyne or unicolonial. Location Taoyuan and Chiayi County, Taiwan. Methods Both social forms (polygyne and monogyne) of the red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta, occur in two separately invaded areas in Taiwan (Taoyuan and Chiayi). We employed intensive sampling methods and diagnostic polymerase chain reaction assays to determine the distribution of these two social forms in both infested areas in Taiwan. Results The distribution of social forms differs dramatically between the two infested areas, consistent with different invasion histories regarding the original make-up of individuals comprising the initial founder group. The Taoyuan population likely was colonized initially by ants of both social forms, with the subsequent spread characterized by continuous outward movement of the two forms, particularly the monogyne form. In contrast, the initial founders of the Chiayi population likely were of the polygyne social form only, suggesting the monogyne social form in this population appeared only recently and likely arose directly from polygyne queens converting to the alternate social form. Main conclusions Our results provide detailed insights into the invasion history of S. invicta in Taiwan and suggest that the distinct reproductive biology of the two social forms may have shaped the current distribution of S. invicta in these infested areas and that the dynamics of two forms may affect the long-term persistence and potential for spread of this pest ant species.
20532080|Aim: Do the statistical distributions of range sizes of native and alien species differ? If so, is this because of residence time effects? And can such effects indicate an average time to a maximum? Location: Ireland, Britain, Germany and the Czech Republic. Methods: The data are presence or absence of higher plants in mapping units of 100 km (Ireland and Britain) or c. 130 km (Germany and the Czech Republic) in areas varying from 79 to 357 thousand km. Logit transforms of range sizes so defined were tested for normality, and examined by ANOVA, and by loess, ordinary least square (OLS) and reduced major axis regressions. Results: Current range sizes, in logits, are near normally distributed. Those of native plants are larger than those of naturalized neophytes (plants introduced since 1500 AD) and much larger than those of casual neophytes. Archaeophytes (introduced earlier) have range sizes slightly larger than natives, except in Ireland. Residence time, the time since an invasive species arrived in the wild at a certain place, affects range sizes. The relationships of the range of naturalized neophytes to residence time are effectively straight in all four places, showing no significant curvature or asymptote back to 1500, though there are few records between 1500 and 1800. The relationships have an r of only about 10%. Both OLS regressions and reduced major axes can be used to estimate the time it takes for the range of a naturalized neophyte to reach a maximum. Main conclusions: Established neophytes have smaller range size distributions than natives probably because many have not yet reached their maximum. We estimate it takes at least 150 years, possibly twice that, on average, for the maximum to be reached in areas of the order of 10 km. Policy needs to allow for the variation in rates of spread and particularly the long time needed to fill ranges. Most naturalized neophytes are still expanding their ranges in Europe.
40800800|Aim To examine the role of multiple landscape factors on the species richness patterns of native and introduced freshwater fish. Location Mediterranean streams, south-western Iberian Peninsula, Europe (c. 87,000 km). Methods We used a dataset of fish occurrences from 436 stream sites. We quantified the incremental explanatory power of multiple landscape factors in native, introduced, and overall local species richness using regression analysis. First, we related variation in local species richness across river basins to regional species richness (here, the basin species pool), area and factors of climate and topography. Second, we related within-river basin local species richness to site's climate and topography, and spatial structure derived from Principal Coordinates of Neighbour Matrices approach, after testing for species richness spatial autocorrelation; predicted local richness was mapped. Results Patterns of local species richness across river basins were strongly associated with regional species richness for overall, native and introduced species; annual rainfall showed a significant incremental contribution to variation in introduced species richness only. Within river basins, environmental factors were associated with local richness for the three species groups, though their contributions to the total explained variation were inferior to those of spatial factors; rainfall seasonality and stream slope were the most consistent environmental correlates for all species groups, while the influence of spatial factors was most prevalent for native species. Main conclusions Landscape factors operating among and within river basins seem to play a relevant role in shaping local species richness of both native and introduced species, and may be contingent on basin-specific contexts. Nevertheless, local factors, such as habitat characteristics and biotic interactions and human-induced disturbances may also be at play. Multiscale approaches incorporating a multitude of factors are strongly encouraged to facilitate a deeper understanding of the biodiversity patterns of Mediterranean streams, and to promote more effective conservation and management strategies.
40390757|Aim To project the distribution of three major forest types in the northeastern USA in response to expected climate change. Location The New England region of the United States. Methods We modelled the potential distribution of boreal conifer, northern deciduous hardwood and mixed oak-hickory forests using the process-based BIOME4 vegetation model parameterized for regional forests under historic and projected future climate conditions. Projections of future climate were derived from three general circulation models forced by three global warming scenarios that span the range of likely anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. Results Annual temperature in New England is projected to increase by 2.2-3.3 C by 2041-70 and by 3.0-5.2 C by 2071-99 with corresponding increases in precipitation of 4.7-9.5% and 6.4-11.4%, respectively. We project that regional warming will result in the loss of 71-100% of boreal conifer forest in New England by the late 21st century. The range of mixed oak-hickory forests will shift northward by 1.0-2.1 latitudinal degrees (c. 100-200 km) and will increase in area by 149-431% by the end of the 21st century. Northern deciduous hardwoods are expected to decrease in area by 26% and move upslope by 76 m on average. The upslope movement of the northern deciduous hardwoods and the increase in oak-hickory forests coincide with an approximate 556 m upslope retreat of the boreal conifer forest by 2071-99. In our simulations, rising atmospheric CO concentrations reduce the losses of boreal conifer forest in New England from expected losses based on climatic change alone. Main conclusion Projected climate warming in the 21st century is likely to cause the extensive loss of boreal conifer forests, reduce the extent of northern hardwood deciduous forests, and result in large increases of mixed oak-hickory forest in New England.
2673408|1997 marked the sesquicentenary of the publication by Carl Bergmann of the observation that, in general, large-bodied animal species tend to live further north than their small-bodied relatives. This has been dubbed Bergmann's rule in his honour. However, more than 150 years on, we appear to be little closer to a general understanding of the rule, or even to any consensus as to whether it exists. This is due in large part to confusion about the taxonomic level at which the rule is considered to operate, and to the conflation of pattern and mechanism. In this paper, we attempt to resolve this confusion by highlighting its sources, and by providing a definition of Bergmann's rule that is practical and useful, yet that retains the essential features of its original formulation. We conclude by briefly reviewing the mechanisms proposed to explain Bergmann's rule as we define it.
4124752|In this study we determine favourable areas for the monk parakeet, Myiopsitta monachus, in peninsular Spain to account for its current distribution and predict its future course according to its potential range. We applied a favourability function based on generalized linear models using the presence/absence of breeding colonies of the species and the values of a set of variables on the 5167 UTM 10 x 10 km squares comprising the study area. We calculated the factor of distribution change in presences predicted by the model, and grouped the variables into explanatory factors performing a variation partitioning to assess the explanatory power of each factor. Our model included six predictors to explain the presence and absence of the species. These predictors were grouped into three factors: human activity, climate, and topography. Purely human influences accounted for 63.8% of the variation of the final model, while topographical variables explained 15.2% and climate only 5.7%. We obtained a high distribution change factor in which the presences of the species were predicted to increase between two- and sevenfold. Taking into account highly favourable squares, we conclude that the species is still absent in more than 72% of potential settlement areas, and thus we expect a continuous increase in the distribution of the species. Human activity is the main force moulding the distribution of the species, and lies behind its fast expansion, which is not only active, but is also passive via releases and escapes. We identified the areas of likely future expansion of the exotic monk parakeet in Spain. The pest status of the species in its native range, together to its distribution trend, should be taken into account by wildlife agencies to consider options for management.
4539993|The decline of roller dung beetles (Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae) in Italy, at national and regional level, was described using a database of both literature and unpublished data, since the late of 19th century. The probability of finding roller species was assessed for each decade of the 20th century in order to detect changes in their distribution and status. An analysis of decline was performed using a complementary approach of different extinction indexes, according to IUCN criteria. During the 20th century, both the absolute number of records and the UTM cells where roller beetles were found increased clearly as a consequence of the escalation of entomological surveys. Nevertheless, comparing R species (rollers) with all the scarab dung beetles from the first to the last quarter of the 20th century, the relative frequency of roller records decreased by 31%, while the relative number of occupied UTM cells dropped by 23%. Six roller species showed a significant decline in Italy from the first to the second part of the 20th century, and nine in the last 30years. Other two species disappeared from the majority of the northern regions. Finally, the values of all the extinction indexes were strongly correlated and detected a high risk of extinction in Italy for six species. A gradual change in land use during the last three decades, consisting of a reduced extension of grasslands in favour of either intensive agriculture or reforestation after abandonment of livestock raising, was likely the main factor inducing decline and local extinction of roller species.
2673327|The potential community species richness was predicted for 85 patches of seminatural grassland in an agricultural landscape in Denmark. The basis of the prediction was a very large dataset on the vegetation, soil pH and topography in Danish grasslands and related communities. Species were inserted into potential species pools according to their preferences regarding soil acidity and water availability (expressed as potential solar irradiation), and to the ranges in these two factors observed in each grassland patch. The difference between the predicted and the observed patch-level species richness, community richness deficit, varied considerably among patches. Community richness deficit exhibited a negative relationship with patch area, and for small patches a positive relationship with patch isolation.
3246725|Herbivorous beetles were sampled in central Slovakia and in the Tatra Mountains of northern Slovakia from seven different Salix species which are partly characterized by smooth leaves containing phenolic glycosides and partly by hairy leaves containing tannins. The collection included about 8000 individuals representing 129 species. Of the 129 species, 77 species are able to use the willows as hosts; the remaining 52 'tourist' species comprise less than 3% of the collected individuals. The data on species richness and abundance did not generally support the 'feeding specialization' hypothesis. The proportion of specialized (= monophagous and oligophagous) beetles feeding on willows of both morphological and biochemical groups was in the same range. Host plants of the two groups could support high diversity and high evenness values, even when leaf characteristics and plant chemicals largely influenced species assemblage. The region in which the willow trees grow had a considerable impact on host plant use. Generalist beetle species predominated in central Slovakia. By contrast, in the Tatra Mountains, specialist feeders which are able to use phenolic glycosides to their advantage were predominant. The number of species and the total density of individuals collected from willows containing phenolic glycosides (S. fragilis and S. purpurea) did not usually vary between the two regions. In contrast, fewer species and individuals were found in the Tatra Mountains when they settled on willow species containing tannins (S. caprea and S. cinerea). Also, the phylogenetic status of host plants affected species assemblages. In central Slovakia willow species of the subgenus Vetrix (S. purpurea, S. caprea and S. cinerea) generally showed a higher beetle diversity (H
41242788|Aim Jaguars and pumas, being similar in size and behaviour, are the largest felids of the Neotropics. However, pumas appear to be more resistant to human impacts. Our objective was to compare the response of both species with human impacts at a regional scale in a highly modified region where both species had continuous distribution in the past. Location The Upper Parana Atlantic Forest (UPAF). Methods Pumas and jaguars presence-only data were used in an Ecological Niche Factor Analysis (ENFA). From the total number of records, we resampled 95 records of each species 10 times to characterize and compare their habitat requirements, built habitat-suitability maps and examined interspecific differences in niche parameters related to present landscape characteristics. Results Both species showed high dependence on native forest and habitat protection, and low tolerance to anthropogenic environments. However, jaguars showed higher differences between their optimal habitat and the available landscape (mean  SD; marginality M = 2.290  0.072) and lower tolerance to deviations from their optimal habitat (tolerance T = 0.596  0.013) than pumas (M = 1.358  0.067, P < 0.001; T = 0.742  0.022, P < 0.001). Although their niches highly overlapped (Pianka's = 0.746  0.069), pumas' higher tolerance resulted in a larger area covered by suitable patches of habitat with higher connectivity. All jaguar-suitable areas were also suitable for pumas; however, 44  8% of puma-suitable areas were unsuitable or marginal for jaguars. Main conclusions Pumas showed more tolerance than jaguars to human impacts at a regional scale in the UPAF, a pattern also observed at local and continental scales. Although the proximate factors responsible for the differential response of pumas to human-altered environments seem to be similar at all spatial scales (e.g. broader trophic niche than jaguars), the resultant spatial configuration of suitable habitat at a regional scale might be another important factor determining puma persistence and higher jaguar demands on conservation efforts.
41058136|Aim Phylogenetically related species share attributes that lead to common responses to environmental conditions, but which could also produce the exclusion of species by its relatives. These processes could generate the patterns of phylogenetic attraction or repulsion in local communities, where related species would tend to coexist more or less than expected by chance. This paper aims to (1) analyse the phylogenetic structure of a benthic gastropod assemblage in the south-western Atlantic Ocean (SAO); (2) explore the linkages between phylogenetic structure and spatial distribution patterns; (3) compare outcomes driven by the analysis of presence-only data and predictive species distribution models; and (4) explore which aspects of the gained knowledge can be useful to the design of sound conservation and/or management actions. Location Uruguayan shelf and slope in the SAO. Methods Spatial patterns in taxonomical relatedness were assessed using (1) raw presence/absence data (i.e. realized niche approach) and (2) reconstruction of the potential composition of the assemblage from niche modelling (i.e. fundamental niche approach). Null models were used to test hypotheses on assemblage structure. Results Significant departures from the null hypothesis that all species were drawn from the same assemblage were observed irrespectively of the approach, indicating the existence of non-random structures. However, a high proportion of local communities can be thought as random subsets of the regional species pool. This lack of a strong signal of a taxonomic effect could be related to the absence of a linkage between taxonomic distances and ecological similarities. Main conclusions Our results suggest a random assembly of local communities from the regional species pool and/or niche filtering independent of phylogeny as main determinants of local community composition. We also suggest that local assemblages displaying significantly higher (or lower) than expected taxonomic relatedness should be taken into consideration for designing spatially explicit conservation measures.
3246734|This issue of Diversity and Distributions carries papers on a wide range of topics dealing with invasions of introduced plant species. The collection of articles did not arise from a conference or workshop, but grew from a founder population of contributed manuscripts. Some additional papers were solicited to ensure coverage of other established or emerging fields of research in plant invasion ecology. The compilation represents a reasonable cross section of issues that currently occupy plant invasion ecologists. The editorial places the contributions in context and summarizes some key findings. It also suggests some profitable avenues for future research in plant invasion ecology.
41058134|Aim Genetically differentiated insular populations are candidates for independent units for conservation. However, occasional immigration to reduced island populations may occur and potentially have important consequences in their future viability and evolutionary potential. In this study, we investigate the conservation implications of population structure and connectivity of insular and continental populations of a migratory raptor as determined using genetic tools and satellite tracking. Location Western European populations in the Iberian Peninsula and two insular populations in the Mediterranean Sea (Balearic Islands) and Atlantic Ocean (Canary Islands). Methods We genotyped 22 microsatellite loci in 96 Egyptian vultures (Neophron percnopterus) from the Iberian Peninsula, 36 from Menorca (Balearic archipelago) and 242 (85% of the current population) from Fuerteventura (Canary Islands). We analysed genetic variation to estimate structure, gene flow, genetic diversity, effective size and recent demographic history of the populations. Additionally, 19 vultures were marked with satellite transmitters to track their migration routes. Results Insular populations were genetically differentiated from those of the mainland. We detected immigration in the insular populations and within the continental counterpart. We found similar levels of genetic variability between the continent and the islands, and a bottleneck analysis indicated recent sharp population declines in both archipelagos but not on the continent. Main conclusions Our study provides evidence that, in spite of significant differentiation, insular populations of highly mobile species may remain connected with the mainland. Conservation programmes should take into account population connectivity and integrate differentiated units of management within complex units of conservation that can best maintain processes and potential for evolutionary change.
2673357|Conservation planning in the Cape Floristic Region, a recognized world plant diversity hotspot, required systematic information on the estimated distributions and spatial requirements of the medium- to large-sized mammals within each of 102 Broad Habitat Units delineated according to key biophysical parameters. As a consequence of a general lack of data, we derived a pragmatic approach for obtaining estimates of these two parameters. Distribution estimates were based on a combination of a literature survey (with emphasis on early texts) and the ecological requirements of the species. Spatial requirement estimates were derived from a simple spreadsheet model that is based on forage availability estimates and the metabolic requirements of the mammals in question. Our analysis incorporated adaptations of the agriculture-based Large Stock Unit or Animal Unit approach. The predictions of the model were tested by comparing them with actual density data. The outcomes provided realistic estimates of the two parameters. However, they should be considered as testable hypotheses and the concept of adaptive management- or management by hypothesis-must apply. Examples of the outcomes are provided in the form of maps and tables.
40604244|Aim The study of biological invasions has long considered species invasiveness and community invasibility as separate questions. Only recently, there is an increasing recognition that integrating these two questions offers new insights into the mechanisms of biological invasions. This recognition has renewed the interest in two long-standing and seemingly contradictory hypotheses proposed by Darwin: phylogenetic relatedness of invaders to native communities is predicted to promote naturalization because of appropriate niche-adaptation but is at the same time predicted to hamper naturalization because of niche overlap with native species. The latter is known as Darwin's naturalization hypothesis. Location Global. Methods and Results We review the studies that have tested these hypotheses and summarize their largely inconsistent outcomes. We argue that most of the inconsistency arises from discrepancies in the applied conceptual frameworks and analytical approaches and not from different model organisms and different ecological contexts. First, observed patterns and results can be seriously flawed by different spatial and phylogenetic scales, which do not equally reveal community assembly mechanisms. Second, different studies have used different metrics, which may test for different specific hypotheses. Thus, we propose a set of metrics derived from the alpha niche concept to measure invaders relatedness to native communities. Finally, approximating species niche differentiation from phylogenetic relatedness is not exempt of assumptions, and invasive species naturalization may result from various ecological mechanisms of biotic resistance that are not necessarily revealed by species phylogeny alone. Main conclusions The quest for resolving the conundrum of Darwin's naturalization hypothesis will only be successful if appropriate scales, metrics and analytical tests are thoroughly considered. We give several recommendations and suggest, whenever possible, to use trait-based measurements of species dissimilarity as the most promising avenue to unravel the mechanisms driving alien species invasions.
20532082|Aim: To highlight and examine apparent paradoxes in assessing the effectiveness of different forms of land-use for biodiversity conservation. Location: Tanzania. Methods: We compare and contrast the findings of two recent and seemingly conflicting studies on the effectiveness of conservation protection strategies in Tanzania. We evaluate these studies in the context of a wider body of evidence relating to the problem of determining protected area performance. Results: We highlight the importance of landscape-scale management approaches for biodiversity conservation; establishing clear management and monitoring objectives in advance; the interrelation between the choice of target species and the appropriate spatial scale over which to measure their fate; and differences between snapshot and longitudinal scales in assessing the effectiveness of conservation strategies. Main conclusions: Protected area assessments should not promote an isolated focus on particular conservation targets or methods of monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of conservation strategies. Instead we argue for a more pluralistic approach to evaluating conservation performance that can help to reveal where potential synergies in tackling different objectives exist, and clarifying the trade-offs when they do not.
40390766|Aim To develop a surveillance support model that enables prediction of areas susceptible to invasion, comparative analysis of surveillance methods and intensity and assessment of eradication feasibility. To apply the model to identify surveillance protocols for generalized invasion scenarios and for evaluating surveillance and control for a context-specific plant invasion. Location Australia. Methods We integrate a spatially explicit simulation model, including plant demography and dispersal vectors, within a Geographical Information System. We use the model to identify effective surveillance protocols using simulations of generalized plant life-forms spreading via different dispersal mechanisms in real landscapes. We then parameterize the surveillance support model for Chilean needle grass [CNG; Nassella neesiana (Trin. & Rupr.) Barkworth], a highly invasive tussock grass, which is an eradication target in south-eastern Queensland, Australia. Results General surveillance protocols that can guide rapid response surveillance were identified; suitable habitat that is susceptible to invasion through particular dispersal syndromes should be targeted for surveillance using an adaptive seekand-destroy method. The search radius of the adaptive method should be based on maximum expected dispersal distances. Protocols were used to define a surveillance strategy for CNG, but simulations indicated that despite effective and targeted surveillance, eradication is implausible at current intensities. Main conclusions Several important surveillance protocols emerged and simulations indicated that effectiveness can be increased if they are followed in rapid response surveillance. If sufficient data are available, the surveillance support model should be parameterized to target areas susceptible to invasion and determine whether surveillance is effective and eradication is feasible. We discovered that for CNG, regardless of a carefully designed surveillance strategy, eradication is implausible at current intensities of surveillance and control and these efforts should be doubled if they are to be successful. This is crucial information in the face of environmentally and economically damaging invasive species and large, expensive and potentially ineffective control programmes.
2673361|Despite several decades of research, the field of invasion ecology has not been very successful in developing reliable generalizations regarding the mechanisms and predictability of invasions. In this essay, we argue that one impediment in the field's development has been that the field of invasion ecology has largely dissociated itself from other subdisciplines of ecology, particularly succession ecology. Taking an historical approach, we suggest that this dissociation began with Charles S. Elton, the generally acknowledged father of invasion biology. We argue further that, despite periodic calls to end what some have regarded as a spurious distinction between native colonizers and introduced invaders, invasion ecology has continued to pursue its own generalizations with limited success. We suggest this dissociation may be exacerbated further by incentives produced by the realities of publishing and securing funding for research and also by the use of electronic search engines to identify related articles. We offer several examples of how invasion ecology has benefited from research on succession and regeneration conducted on native species and conclude that the field of invasion ecology would do well to do more of this type of communication and collaboration among subdisciplines
4539923|Prevention is the best way to slow the escalation of problems associated with biological invasions. Screening of potential introductions is widely applied for assessing the risk of species becoming invasive. Despite advances in the understanding of the determinants of invasiveness, screening still relies heavily on assessments of the potential of species to 'fit in' to the broad environmental conditions of a target region. Most screening systems ask whether species are native to, or are known to be naturalized or invasive in, regions with 'similar' climatic/environmental conditions to the target region. The level of similarity required to make the species a high-risk introduction is generally not specified. This paper describes a protocol for making such assessments more objective, using South Africa as a test case. Using nonparametric niche-based modelling (generalized additive model; GAM) calibrated on the current distribution of each South African biome, we mapped regions of the world that are climatically similar to South African biomes. Lists were produced of countries with the largest areas climatically similar to South Africa overall, and to each biome separately. Validation of the usefulness of the approach was sought by evaluating whether the main invasive plant species in South African biomes occur naturally, or have adventive ranges, in regions mapped as analogous to South African biomes. A very large part of the world is climatically similar to South Africa, with eight countries having larger areas of land classified as climatically similar to South African biomes than the total area of South Africa. Almost all the most prominent invasive species in South African biomes occur naturally or are invasive outside their natural range in areas with similar climates to those that occur in parts of South Africa. This confirms the value of objective climate matching in screening protocols. We examined climatic conditions for a representative sample of major invasive plants from other parts of the world. The analysis identified several species that are already invasive in regions that have matched climates in South Africa but that are not yet introduced or, if already present, have not yet invaded large areas. For example, the following known invasive species should be considered high-risk species in South African grasslands: Alliaria petiolata, Cytisus scoparius, Gleditsia triacanthos, Heracleum mantegazzianum, Hieracium pilosella, Juniperus communis, Pinus contorta, P. monticola, P. ponderosa, P. sylvestris, Prunus laurcerasus, and P. serotina. Objectively matched climatic regions are also useful as a first-cut assessment when evaluating species with no invasive history.
20532101|Aim: Given that urban landscapes often act as a point of entry for many non-native species and urban development continues to increase as the human population rapidly expands, an understanding of the interaction between urbanization and non-native plant species is important both in the control of potentially invasive species and in the conservation of native biodiversity. We investigated the spatial and temporal relationship between urban land cover and the distribution of non-native species in Britain using two floristic data sets collected at two different time periods: 1987-88 and 2003-04. Location: UK. Methods: Using floristic data collected by the Botanical Society of the British Isles in 1987-88 (Monitoring Scheme) and 2003-04 (Local Change) in conjunction with habitat data obtained from the Land Cover Map of the UK, we conducted multiple regression analyses both within and between years on both groups of species (natives, neophytes and archaeophytes) and individual species. Results: Neophytes (alien species introduced after 1500) were very strongly associated with urban land cover in both time periods and do not appear to be spreading out of urban habitats into the wider countryside. Archaeophytes (alien species introduced before 1500), however, showed a strong association with urban habitats in the earlier 1988 data set but no longer showed this association in the 2004 data set. Analysis at the individual species level showed that a large percentage of alien plant species, particularly archaeophytes, were not strongly associated with urban land cover or were negatively associated with such habitats. Main conclusions: Our results suggest that there has been a reduction in the urban association of archaeophytes that is likely to have resulted from the recovery of archaeophytes associated with non-urban (especially arable) habitats, following their decline in mid-20th century, rather than from the movement of aliens into the wider countryside from urban habitats.
3246737|Data on floristic status, biological attributes, chronology and distribution of naturalized species have been shown to be a very powerful tool for discerning the patterns of plant invasions and species invasiveness. We analysed the newly compiled list of casual and naturalized plant species in Taiwan (probably the only complete data set of this kind in East Asia) and found that Taiwan is relatively lightly invaded with only 8% of the flora being casual or naturalized. Moreover, the index of casual and naturalized species per log area is also moderate, in striking contrast with many other island floras where contributions of naturalized species are much higher. Casual and naturalized species have accumulated steadily and almost linearly over the past decades. Fabaceae, Asteraceae, and Poaceae are the families with the most species. However, Amaranthaceae, Convolvulaceae, and Onagraceae have the largest ratios of casual and naturalized species to their global numbers. Ipomoea, Solatium and Crotalaria have the highest numbers of casual and naturalized species. About 60% of all genera with exotic species are new to Taiwan. Perennial herbs represent one third of the casual and naturalized flora, followed by annual herbs. About 60% of exotic species were probably introduced unintentionally onto the island; many species imported intentionally have ornamental, medicinal, or forage values. The field status of 50% of these species is unknown, but ornamentals represent noticeable proportions of naturalized species, while forage species represent a relatively larger proportion of casual species. Species introduced for medicinal purposes seem to be less invasive. Most of the casual and naturalized species of Taiwan originated from the Tropical Americas, followed by Asia and Europe.
3246697|Phytolith analysis of grasses is a useful tool in palaeoenvironmental and archaeobotanical research. Lobate phytolith is one of the most important morphotypes of grass phytoliths. This study describes morphological variations of diagnostic lobate phytoliths and produces a tentative classification scheme based on 250 modern grass species from China and the south-eastern U.S.A. Eighty-five grass species were found to contain lobate phytoliths. They are derived mainly from Panicoideae, but also include the Chloridoideae, Oryzoideae and Arundinoideae subfamilies. Twenty-five lobate morphological types were observed from different subfamilies, genera or tribes of grasses, based on two important parameters: (1) the length of the lobate shank and (2) the shape of the outer margin of the two lobes. The identification of grass tribe or even genus is possible based on the differences in lobate shape parameters or the composition of assemblages. However, not all of the lobate assemblages have a definite relationship with the genera that produce them, because grasses can only produce a limited range of lobate shapes that often overlap from one genus to another. Several C
20171991|Dispersal is a significant determinant of the pattern and process of invasions; however, weed dispersal distances are rarely described and descriptions of dispersal kernels are completely lacking for vertebrate-dispersed weeds. Here, we describe dispersal kernels generated by a native disperser, the endangered southern cassowary (Casuarius casuarius, L.) for an invasive, tropical rainforest plant, pond apple (Annona glabra, L.). Pond apple is primarily water-dispersed and is managed as such. We consider whether cassowary dispersal, as a numerically subordinate dispersal mode, provides an additional dispersal service that may modify the invasion process. In infested areas, pond apple seed was common in cassowary dung. Gut passage had no effect on the probability of single seed germination but deposition in clumps or as whole fruits reduced the probability of germination below that of single seeds. Gut passage times ranged from 65 to 1675 min. Combined with cassowary movement data, this resulted in estimated dispersal distances of 12.5-5212 m, with a median distance of 387 m (quartile range 112-787 m). Native frugivores can be effective dispersers of weeds in rainforest and even terrestrial dispersers can provide long-distance dispersal. Importantly, though pond apple might be expected to be almost entirely dispersed downstream and along the margins of aquatic and marine habitats, cassowaries provide dispersal upstream and between drainages, leading to novel dispersal outcomes. Even through the provision of small quantities of novel dispersal outcomes, subordinate dispersal modes can play a significant role in determining invasion pattern and influence the ultimate success of control programs by providing dispersal to locations unattainable via the primary mode.
40390756|Aim Hull fouling is a leading vector for the introduction of marine, nonindigenous species (NIS) worldwide, yet its importance to freshwater habitats is poorly understood. We aimed to establish the complement of NIS transported via this vector to the Great Lakes and to determine if they pose an invasion risk. Location Laurentian Great Lakes. Methods During 2007 and 2008, we collected scrapings from exterior surfaces as well as underwater video-transects from 20 vessels shortly after their arrival in Great Lakes' ports. Invertebrates present were sorted and identified in the laboratory. Results Total estimated abundance averaged > 170,000 invertebrates per ship belonging to 109 taxa. Most (72%) of these taxa were freshwater species already present in the Great Lakes, whereas 11 and 31% were native to estuarine and marine habitats respectively, and would not be expected to survive in this habitat. Abundance was dominated by barnacles (51%), cladocerans (19%), bivalves (12%) and amphipods (11%). Sea-chest grating and the rudder were hot-spots for biofouling. Invertebrate diversity and total abundance were positively associated with total time spent in port during the last year and time in Pacific South American ports and negatively related to time in high latitudes and sailing speed. Although we found some live, established invaders such as Gammarus tigrinus and Dreissena rostriformis bugensis, only one individual of a freshwater NIS (Alexandrovia onegensis y Oligochaeta) not yet reported in the Great Lakes was detected. The animal's poor condition and seemingly low population abundance indicated the risk of live introduction by this vector was likely quite low. Main conclusion Our results indicate that hull fouling appears to pose a low risk of introductions of new species capable of surviving in the Great Lakes, unlike foreign-sourced freshwater ballast water that historically was discharged by these transoceanic vessels.
41058179|Aim Using a probabilistic modelling framework, we aimed to incorporate landscape spatiotemporal dynamics into reserve design. We employed a spatially explicit stochastic model, which integrates both hydrological and biological processes, to simulate the wetland's biological succession. Location Pantanal wetland (with 140,000 km) between Brazil, Bolivia and Paraguay. Methods We used the reserve design software Marxan to optimize the current and future representation (up to 50 years) of 20% of five plant communities with maximum reliability (i.e. smallest uncertainty). The Kappa statistic was used to compare selection frequencies of individual sites through a set of planning timeframes (5, 17, 25 and 50 years) and the likely pattern of biological succession over these periods. Results Solutions based on static vegetation distributions were significantly dissimilar from solutions based on the expected modelled changes resulting from the flood disturbance and succession dynamics. Increasing the required reliability of biodiversity outcomes resulted in more expensive reserve solutions. We demonstrated the flexibility of probabilistic decision-making methods to illuminate the trade-offs between reliability and efficiency of site selection. Main conclusions Considering the importance of habitat heterogeneity to the principles and practice of systematic conservation planning, it is notable that landscape dynamics have not been a central theme in conservation planning. In the case of the Pantanal hydrosere, acknowledging and planning for temporal dynamics required an ability to model succession and define acceptable levels of outcome reliability, but ultimately improved the long-term Adequacy of resulting reserve networks.
20171978|We studied the effect of propagule pressure on the establishment and subsequent spread of the invasive little fire ant Wasmannia auropunctata in a Gabonese oilfield in lowland rain forest. Oil well drilling, the major anthropogenic disturbance over the past 21 years in the area, was used as an indirect measure of propagule pressure. An analysis of 82 potential introductions at oil production platforms revealed that the probability of successful establishment significantly increased with the number of drilling events. Specifically, the shape of the dose--response establishment curve could be closely approximated by a Poisson process with a 34% chance of infestation per well drilled. Consistent with our knowledge of largely clonal reproduction by W. auropunctata, the shape of the establishment curve suggested that the ants were not substantially affected by Allee effects, probably greatly contributing to this species' success as an invader. By contrast, the extent to which W. auropunctata spread beyond the point of initial introduction, and thus the extent of its damage to diversity of other ant species, was independent of propagule pressure. These results suggest that while establishment success depends on propagule pressure, other ecological or genetic factors may limit the extent of further spread. Knowledge of the shape of the dose--response establishment curve should prove useful in modelling the future spread of W. auropunctata and perhaps the spread of other clonal organisms.
3696923|Andean montane rain forests are among the most species-rich terrestrial habitats. Little is known about their insect communities and how these respond to anthropogenic habitat alteration. We investigated exceptionally speciose ensembles of nocturnal tiger moths (Arctiidae) at 15 anthropogenically disturbed sites, which together depict a gradient of forest recovery and six closed-forest understorey sites in southern Ecuador. At weak light traps we sampled 9211 arctiids, representing 287 species. Arctiid abundance and diversity were highest at advanced succession sites, where secondary scrub or young forest had re-established, followed by early succession sites, and were lowest, but still high, in mature forest understorey. The proportion of rare species showed the reverse pattern. We ordinated moth samples by non-metric multidimensional scaling using the chord-normalized expected species shared index (CNESS) index at various levels of the sample size parameter m. A distinct segregation of arctiid ensembles at succession sites from those in mature forest consistently emerged only at high m-values. Segregation between ensembles of early vs. late succession stages was also clear at high m values only, and was rather weak. Rare species were responsible for much of the faunal difference along the succession gradient, whereas many common arctiid species occurred in all sites. Matrix correlation tests as well as exploration of relationships between ordination axes and environmental variables revealed the degree of habitat openness, and to a lesser extent, elevation, as best predictors of faunal dissimilarity. Faunal differences were not related to geographical distances between sampling sites. Our results suggest that many of the more common tiger moths of Neotropical montane forests have a substantial recolonization potential at the small spatial scale of our study and accordingly occur also in landscape mosaics surrounding nature reserves. These species contribute to the unexpectedly high diversity of arctiid ensembles at disturbed sites, whereas the proportion of rare species declines outside mature forest.
2673320|Much confusion exists in the English-language literature on plant invasions concerning the terms 'naturalized' and 'invasive' and their associated concepts. Several authors have used these terms in proposing schemes for conceptualizing the sequence of events from introduction to invasion, but often imprecisely, erroneously or in contradictory ways. This greatly complicates the formulation of robust generalizations in invasion ecology. Based on an extensive and critical survey of the literature we defined a minimum set of key terms related to a graphic scheme which conceptualizes the naturalization/invasion process. Introduction means that the plant (or its propagule) has been transported by humans across a major geographical barrier. Naturalization starts when abiotic and biotic barriers to survival are surmounted and when various barriers to regular reproduction are overcome. Invasion further requires that introduced plants produce reproductive off-spring in areas distant from sites of introduction (approximate scales: > 100 m over < 50 years for taxa spreading by seeds and other propagules; > 6 m/3 years for taxa spreading by roots, rhizomes, stolons or creeping stems). Taxa that can cope with the abiotic environment and biota in the general area may invade disturbed, seminatural communities. Invasion of successionally mature, undisturbed communities usually requires that the alien taxon overcomes a different category of barriers. We propose that the term `invasive' should be used without any inference to environmental or economic impact. Terms like 'pests' and 'weeds' are suitable labels for the 50-80% of invaders that have harmful effects. About 10% of invasive plants that change the character, condition, form, or nature of ecosystems over substantial areas may be termed 'transformers'
3246842|We use a comparative phylogeographical framework to evaluate the hypothesis of hydrological exchange during the Pleistocene among the now disjunct Lena, Amur, and Enisei basins in Siberia, and to provide evidence on the causal mechanism of their present day faunal dissimilarities. Approximately 600 bases of the mitochondrial control region were sequenced in five distinct lineages among three genera of salmonid fishes, Hucho, Brachymystax and Thymallus. All three basins were fixed for divergent (2-5.4%) lineages of Thymallus whereas a single shared haplotype was present in all three basins for Hucho taimen (Pallas, 1773) and one shared haplotype between the Lena and Amur basins out of a total of five for blunt-snouted and one out of five for sharp-snouted Brachymystax lenok (Pallas, 1773). For both blunt- and sharp-snouted lenok the haplotypes found within each basin did not form clades, so no relationship between genotypes and geographical occurrence was found. Our data support relatively recent hydrological mixing of the major river drainage systems in eastern and far-eastern Siberia, congruent with the hypothesis of large-scale palaeo-hydrological exchange stemming from glacial advance, retreat and melting during Pleistocene climate fluctuations. Furthermore, these results in conjunction with a comparison of overall faunal composition suggest that environmental differences rather than historical contingency may be responsible for the faunal dissimilarities of the Amur, Lena, and Enisei river basins.
20172054|Aim: The large biogenic structures formed by colonial cold-water scleractinian corals provide valuable habitat for marine invertebrates on seamounts and the continental slope of all world oceans. These patchily distributed long-lived structures are easily damaged by several human activities, particularly bottom trawling for fish, and are potentially vulnerable to ocean acidification caused by climate change. Consequently, an important conservation question is whether these structures support a specialized invertebrate fauna restricted to these habitats. Here we investigate the relationship between structures formed by the coral Solenosmilia variabilis and its associated ophiuroid (brittlestar) fauna, one of the dominant components of deep-sea ecosystems. Location: Seafloor habitat around Southern Australia, New Zealand, and the Macquarie Ridge from 35 to 53 S and 117 E-176 W, 500-1500 m depth. Methods: Data were derived from samples collected by numerous scientific expeditions to the study region. Because these samples were collected using a variety of gear and effort, a two-step approach was used. First, the largest consistently collected data set (73 ophiuroid species from 59 samples) was assembled for multivariate analysis. ANOSIM was used to test for differences in ophiuroid community composition between Solenosmilia and non-Solenosmilia habitat on seamounts and the continental slope, and SIMPER was used to identify species that characterized Solenosmilia habitat. Second, these results were validated against all known data to ensure that these characteristic species had not been found in non-Solenosmilia habitat elsewhere. Results: The ophiuroid assemblages from Solenosmilia habitat were distinct from those found on other habitats on the continental slope and offshore seamounts across the study region. Although a suite of ophiuroid species characterized Solenosmilia habitat, most have also been collected from dead coral or other rubble, suggesting a physical rather than biological association between the coral matrix and its associated invertebrate fauna. Main conclusions: Despite the lack of an exclusive ophiuroid--coral relationship, cold-water scleractinian coral remains the principal habitat for a number of ophiuroid species across southern Australia and New Zealand. The slow growth rate of the coral and the low dispersal potential of some associated species suggest that recovery of damaged cold-water coral assemblages will be a long-term process.
3877721|Clearance of tropical forest for agricultural purposes is generally assumed to seriously threaten the survival of forest species. In this study, we quantified the conservation value, for forest bird species, of three degraded habitat types in Peninsular Malaysia, namely rubber tree plantations, oil palm plantations, and open areas. We surveyed these degraded habitats using point counts to estimate their forest bird species richness and abundance. We assessed whether richness, abundance, and activities of different avian dietary groups (i.e. insectivores and frugivores) varied among the habitats. We identified the critical habitat elements that accounted for the distribution of forest avifauna in these degraded habitats. Our results showed that these habitats harboured a moderate fraction of forest avifauna (approximately 46-76 species) and their functions were complementary (i.e. rubber tree plantations for moving; open habitats for perching; shrubs in oil palm plantations for foraging). In terms of species richness and abundance, rubber tree plantations were more important than oil palm plantations and open habitats. The relatively high species richness of this agricultural landscape was partly due to the contiguity of our study areas with extensive forest areas. Forecasts of forest-species presence under various canopy cover scenarios suggest that leaving isolated trees among non-arboreal crops could greatly attract relatively tolerant species that require tree canopy. The conservation value of degraded habitats in agricultural landscapes seems to depend on factors such as the type of crops planted and distance to primary forest remnants.
20171957|Patterns generated from ecological surveys are rarely tested in similar habitats to assess the accuracy of predictions. Testing empirically derived predictions provides a strong tool for establishing the consistency of general patterns in ecology. We test the consistency of beetle community associations with habitat complexity in open canopy forests and make both community and morphospecies-level comparisons with results from a previous study. We use Normalized Difference Vegetation Indices (NDVIs) from remote sensing as a surrogate for habitat complexity. The positive relationships between NDVIs and site-based beetle species richness and abundance were consistent in open canopy forests both south and north of Sydney, Australia. NDVIs were also useful for predicting differences in beetle composition in open canopy forests. Taxon-specific responses to NDVI differences in 'southern forests' were very similar to responses in 'northern forests', most likely reflecting beetle trophic roles. This study shows that NDVIs can be used as rapid biodiversity indicators, when integrated with identified faunal responses to vegetation structure, provided that the lower vegetation strata may be measured by remote sensing.
3877734|This study examined the interplay of spatial and environmental effects shaping the range margin of the red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio) in northern Portugal. The occurrence of shrikes in 10 x 10 km UTM squares was related to three sets of explanatory variables, reflecting environmental effects (climate and habitat), large-scale spatial trends, and neighbourhood influences (considering an autologistic term); spatial variables were used as surrogates for historical and demographic factors. Multiple logistic regression models were built for each set, and then variation partitioning based on partial regressions isolated the unique and shared components of explained variation. The environmental model revealed a dominant influence of climate effects, with the occurrence of shrikes increasing with frost and thermal amplitude, declining with insolation, and responding unimodally to rainfall. There was a weaker influence of habitat conditions, though shrikes were more likely with increasing cover by annual crops and pastures, and decreasing forest cover. Only a relatively small proportion of explained variation was due to a 'pure' environmental component (10.4%), as most variation explained by environmental factors appeared spatially structured (51.9%). The unique contributions of spatial variables to the overall model were also small, though the neighbourhood effects appeared relatively stronger than large-scale trends. Taken together, results suggested that the southwestern range margin of the red-backed shrike was largely determined by spatially structured environmental factors. Nevertheless, there were also 'pure' environmental factors determining some isolate occurrences irrespective of any spatial structure, and 'pure' spatial factors that appeared to favour the occupation of squares surrounding the core distribution areas irrespective of environmental conditions. These results add to the growing evidence that both environmental and spatial factors need to be considered in predictive modelling of species range margins.
3877741|The Klamath-Siskiyou forests of northern California and southern Oregon are recognized as an area of globally outstanding biological distinctiveness. When evaluated at a national or global level, this region is often, necessarily, considered to be uniformly diverse. Due to large variation in biotic and abiotic variables throughout this region, however, it is unlikely that biological diversity is uniformly distributed. Furthermore, land management decisions nearly always occur at spatial scales smaller than this entire region. Therefore, we used field data from a random sampling design to map the distribution of local and regional richness of terrestrial molluscs and salamanders within northern California's portion of the Klamath-Siskiyou region. We also evaluated the protection afforded by reserves established for varying reasons (e.g. for inspiration and recreation for people vs. species conservation) to hotspots of species richness and species representation of these taxa. No existing reserves were created with these taxa in mind, yet it was assumed that reserves established largely around considerations for the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) would afford adequate protection for many lesser-known species. Species of terrestrial molluscs and salamanders share two general features: (1) they have extremely low vagility, and (2) they are often associated with moist, cool microclimates. Existing reserves disproportionately included areas of hotspots of species richness for both taxa, when hotspots included the richest c. 25% of the area, whereas non-reserved lands contained greater than expected areas with lower species richness. However, when a more strict definition of hotspot was used (i.e. the richest c.10% of areas), local hotspots for both taxa were not disproportionately found in reserves. Reserves set aside largely for human aesthetics and recreation and those set aside for biodiversity both contributed to the protection of areas with high (greatest 25%) species richness. Existing biodiversity reserves represented 68% of mollusc species and 73% of salamander species, corresponding to the 99th and 93rd percentiles, respectively, of species representation achieved by simulating a random distribution of the same total area of reservation. Cumulatively, however, reserves set aside for inspiration and biodiversity represented 83% of mollusc species and 91% of salamander species. The existing reserves provide conservation value for terrestrial molluscs and salamanders. This reserve network, however, should not be considered optimal for either taxa.
4539960|The aim of this study was to use data for gastropod and bivalve molluscs to determine whether the fauna of the Southern Ocean is sufficiently well known to establish robust biogeographical and macroecological patterns. We chose molluscs for this work because they have been collected by almost every biological expedition to Antarctica, and are relatively well known taxonomically. Sampling of the continental shelf fauna is reasonably full and extensive, although new species are still being described and there are significant gaps in sampling off Wilkes Land and in the Bellingshausen and Amundsen Seas. Species richness was highest in those areas that have been subject to the most intense research activity and this pattern remained even after correction for sampling intensity. The low species richness of the Southern Ocean molluscan fauna compared with many tropical sites is confirmed, and is related principally to the absence of the large number of rare taxa that characterize some tropical assemblages. There is as yet no convincing evidence for a latitudinal cline in molluscan diversity within the Southern Ocean. Multivariate analyses defined biogeographical provinces very similar to those established previously, though they also identified a number of finer-scale sub-provinces including a small area of high diversity off Enderby Land. Most Southern Ocean gastropods and bivalves are rare, with limited distributions; relatively few taxa have circumpolar distributions.
41058143|Aim We use data from 13 mountain regions and surrounding lowland areas to identify (1) the origins, traits and cultural uses of alien plant species that establish in mountains, (2) the alien species that are most likely to be a threat and (3) how managers might use this information to prevent further invasions. Location Australia, Canada, Chile, India, New Zealand, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, USA. Methods Lists of alien species were compiled for mountains and their surrounding or nearby lowlands. Principal co-ordinates analysis was performed on a matrix of similarities created using presence/absence data for alien species. The significance of differences between means for (1) similarity metrics of lowland and mountain groups and (2) species traits of lowland and mountain alien floras was determined using t-tests. In seven of the 13 mountain regions, lists of alien species undergoing management were compiled. The significance of differences between proportions of traits for species requiring and not requiring management input was determined with chi-square tests. Results We found that the proximal lowland alien flora is the main determinant of a mountain region's alien species composition. The highest similarities between mountain floras were in the Americas/Pacific Region. The majority of alien species commonly found in mountains have agricultural origins and are of little concern to land managers. Woody species and those used for ornamental purposes will often pose the greatest threat. Main conclusions Given the documented potential threat of alien species invading mountains, we advise natural resource managers to take preventive measures against the risk of alien plant invasion in mountains. A strategy for prevention should extend to the surrounding lowland areas and in particular regulate the introduction of species that are already of management concern in other mountains as well as climatically pre-adapted alien mountain plants. These may well become more problematic than the majority of alien plants currently in mountains.
4539954|A number of infectious diseases have emerged as threats to humans and wildlife. Despite the growing importance of georeferenced data for mitigating disease risk, information on parasite threat is patchily distributed at a global scale. In this paper, we explore the utility of gap analysis techniques to investigate the global geographical distribution of parasite sampling in non-human primates. Specifically, we identify geographical areas that are undersampled for parasites in relation to primate geographical distributions, primate taxonomic sampling, primate threat status, and parasite taxonomy. Our results reveal that East Asia (particularly China), South-East Asia, and the South American Amazon are the most deficient in sampling effort with respect to all criteria. We also identify sampling gaps based on several criteria in West and Central Africa. Future research aimed at filling these gaps is needed for both human health and primate conservation purposes.
41242849|Aim This study compares the direct, macroecological approach (MEM) for modelling species richness (SR) with the more recent approach of stacking predictions from individual species distributions (S-SDM). We implemented both approaches on the same dataset and discuss their respective theoretical assumptions, strengths and drawbacks. We also tested how both approaches performed in reproducing observed patterns of SR along an elevational gradient. Location Two study areas in the Alps of Switzerland. Methods We implemented MEM by relating the species counts to environmental predictors with statistical models, assuming a Poisson distribution. S-SDM was implemented by modelling each species distribution individually and then stacking the obtained prediction maps in three different ways - summing binary predictions, summing random draws of binomial trials and summing predicted probabilities - to obtain a final species count. Results The direct MEM approach yields nearly unbiased predictions centred around the observed mean values, but with a lower correlation between predictions and observations, than that achieved by the S-SDM approaches. This method also cannot provide any information on species identity and, thus, community composition. It does, however, accurately reproduce the humpshaped pattern of SR observed along the elevational gradient. The S-SDM approach summing binary maps can predict individual species and thus communities, but tends to overpredict SR. The two other S-SDM approaches - the summed binomial trials based on predicted probabilities and summed predicted probabilities -do not overpredict richness, but they predict many competing end points of assembly or they lose the individual species predictions, respectively. Furthermore, all S-SDM approaches fail to appropriately reproduce the observed hump-shaped patterns of SR along the elevational gradient. Main conclusions Macroecological approach and S-SDM have complementary strengths. We suggest that both could be used in combination to obtain better SR predictions by following the suggestion of constraining S-SDM by MEM predictions.
3246890|Estimates of total parasite species richness, for given host groups in given geographical areas, are always much higher than the numbers of known parasite species on which they are based. The discrepancy is a reflection of our limited current knowledge of parasite diversity. This is illustrated by a comparison of the parasite faunas of New Zealand fish species with those of Canadian fish; the latter have been well studied by fish parasitologists, and provide a standard for comparisons. More parasite species are known per host species for Canadian fish than for New Zealand fish, for both marine and freshwater fishes. This difference remains after correcting for differences in study effort, i.e. in the number of published studies per fish species. There are also more parasite species per fish species in Canada than in New Zealand when parasite species richness is expressed as number of species per unit of host body length. For freshwater fish, the difference can be explained by the restricted phylogenetic origins and geographical isolation of New Zealand fish species. For marine fish, however, there is no a priori reason to expect a difference in parasite species richness between fish in New Zealand and Canadian waters, and the observed difference probably results from a lack of appropriate parasitological surveys in New Zealand. If the true species richness of the parasite faunas of New Zealand marine fish species approaches that of their Canadian counterparts, then most of the diversity and ecosystem function of fish parasites in New Zealand remains unknown.
41242832|Aim Reproductive traits are important mediators of establishment and spread of introduced species, both directly and through interactions with other life-history traits and extrinsic factors. We identify features of the reproductive biology of Australian acacias associated with invasiveness. Location Global. Methods We reviewed the pollination biology, seed biology and alternative modes of reproduction of Australian acacias using primary literature, online searches and unpublished data. We used comparative analyses incorporating an Acacia phylogeny to test for associations between invasiveness and eight reproductive traits in a group of introduced and invasive (23) and non-invasive (129) species. We also explore the distribution of groups of trait 'syndromes' between invasive and non-invasive species. Results Reproductive trait data were only available for 126 of 152 introduced species in our data set, representing 23/23 invasive and 103/129 non-invasive species. These data suggest that invasives reach reproductive maturity earlier (10/13 within 2 years vs. 7/26 for non-invasives) and are more commonly able to resprout (11/21 vs. 13/54), although only time to reproductive maturity was significant when phylogenetic relationships were controlled for. Our qualitative survey of the literature suggests that invasive species in general tend to have generalist pollination systems, prolific seed production, efficient seed dispersal and the accumulation of large and persistent seed banks that often have fire-, heat- or disturbance-triggered germination cues. Conclusions Invasive species respond quicker to disturbance than non-invasive taxa. Traits found to be significant in our study require more in-depth analysis involving data for a broader array of species given how little is known of the reproductive biology of so many taxa in this species-rich genus. Sets of reproductive traits characteristic of invasive species and a general ability to reproduce effectively in new locations are widespread in Australian acacias. Unless there is substantial evidence to the contrary, care should be taken with all introductions.
40604237|Aim In an era of global habitat loss and species extinction, conservation biology is increasingly becoming a science of triage. A key approach has been the designation of global biodiversity hotspots  areas of high species richness and endemism  prioritizing regions that are disproportionately valuable. However, traditional hotspot approaches leave absent information on species evolutionary histories. We argue that prioritizing the preservation of evolutionary diversity is one way to maximize genotypic and functional diversity, providing ecosystems with the greatest number of options for dealing with an uncertain future. Location Global. Methods We review methods for encapsulating phylogenetic diversity and distinctiveness and provide an illustration of how phylogenetic metrics can be extended to include data on geographical rarity and inform conservation prioritization at biogeographic scales. Results Abundance-weighted metrics of evolutionary diversity can be used to simultaneously prioritize populations, species, habitats and biogeographical regions. Main conclusion Policy makers need to know where scarce conservation funds should be focused to maximize gains and minimize the loss of biological diversity. By incorporating these evolutionary diversity metrics into prioritization schemes, managers can better quantify the valuation of different regions based on evolutionary information.
2999800|We analysed the geographic distribution of 645 species of marine benthic algae along the Atlantic coast of Europe and Pacific coast of temperate South America to test for the existence of an association between geographic range size and latitude (Rapoport's Rule) and for three key components of the explanations offered for it. We found that species in high diversity areas are characterized by small geographic ranges and by low specific growth rates as compared to species with large geographic ranges, thus supporting the Rapoport-rescue hypothesis. However, the pattern is not related to species' tolerances, to abiotic conditions or to climatic variability. Further, the inverse latitudinal diversity pattern shown by the marine algal flora of temperate Pacific South America, and the opposite patterns shown by tropical and subantarctic species within this flora, stressed that small geographic ranges are linked to high diversity areas in general, and not only in relation to the pole to tropic species diversity gradient.
41242848|Aim We used alien plant species introduced to a botanic garden to investigate the relative importance of species traits (leaf traits, dispersal syndrome) and introduction characteristics (propagule pressure, residence time and distance to forest) in explaining establishment success in surrounding tropical forest. We also used invasion scores from a weed risk assessment protocol as an independent measure of invasion risk and assessed differences in variables between high-and low-risk species. Location East Usambara mountains, Tanzania. Methods Forest transect surveys identified species establishing in disturbed and intact forest. Leaf traits (specific leaf area and foliar nutrient concentrations) were measured from leaves sampled in high-light environments. Results A leaf traits spectrum was apparent, but species succeeding or failing to establish in either disturbed or intact forest were not located in different parts of the spectrum. Species with high invasion risk did not differ in their location on the leaf trait spectrum compared with low-risk species but were more likely to be bird/primate-dispersed. For 15 species establishing in forest quadrats, median canopy cover of quadrats where seedlings were present was correlated with a species value along the leaf trait spectrum. Species establishing in disturbed forest were planted in twice as many plantations and were marginally more likely to be bird-or primate-dispersed than species failing to become established in disturbed forest. Establishment in intact forest was more likely for species planted closer to forest edges. Main conclusions Leaf and dispersal traits appear less important in the colonization of tropical forest than introduction characteristics. It appears, given sufficient propagule pressure or proximity to forest, alien species are much more likely to establish independently of leaf traits or dispersal syndrome in continental tropical forests.
4539980|The chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis has been implicated as the causative agent of mass mortalities, population declines, and the extinctions of stream-breeding amphibian species worldwide. While the factors that limit the distribution and abundance of B. dendrobatidis across large geographical regions are fairly well understood, little is known about the distribution of the fungus within localized areas such as individual catchments. The accurate identification of amphibian populations likely to be exposed to the fungus is urgently required for effective disease management. We conducted disease surveys of frogs representing five ecological guilds in south-east Queensland, Australia, and hypothesized that if B. dendrobatidis were responsible for the disappearance of stream-breeding amphibian populations, infection prevalence and intensity would be greatest in frogs breeding in permanent, flowing water. Overall, 30.3% of the 519 frogs we sampled were infected with B. dendrobatidis. However, infections were not evenly distributed across the ecological guilds, being almost completely restricted to frogs breeding at permanent waterbodies. Of these, stream breeders were significantly more likely to be infected than were pond breeders, though the intensity of frogs' infections did not differ significantly between the two guilds. Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis was detected on only one of the 117 frogs that were found at ephemeral ponds, ephemeral streams, or terrestrial sites. These findings provide strong support for the hypothesis that B. dendrobatidis was responsible for many of the unexplained disappearances of stream-breeding amphibian populations in recent decades, and will enable wildlife managers to more accurately focus conservation efforts on those species at highest risk of disease-related decline.
3246704|The study of long-distance dispersal (LDD) in animals may be advanced by recent applications of stable isotope analyses designed to track migratory organisms and to link populations throughout their annual cycle. This approach depends on there being enough isotopic difference in tissues among potential source populations such that individuals can be unequivocally assigned to their source. The isotopic mapping of such populations will be feasible only for species occurring in relatively few disjunct populations. However, the identification of isotopic outliers within known populations will be an extremely useful first step in the forensic application of stable isotopes to identify dispersal in general, and LDD in particular. The use of deuterium isotope analysis (D) of tissues that can be assigned to its source (e.g. feather moult or its hair growth location) has provided a recent breakthrough in our ability to associate individuals with geographical origins at continental scales. The combination of this stable isotope with others and the ultimate combination of a variety of techniques, including the measurement of trace elements and molecular genetics markers, will undoubtedly improve resolution. The isotopic cataloguing of known history (i.e. philopatric) individuals within populations will be an important step in applying isotope techniques to evaluating LDD in any species. For aquatic insects, the isotopic marking of large numbers of individuals is possible through isotopic enrichment of local food webs using labelled compounds.
41242826|Aim This study reports on the contribution of the Australian Tree Seed Centre (ATSC) to the international dissemination of Australian acacias. It also describes the current uses and the scale of economic benefits derived from planting Australian acacias, and speculates about possible future trends in usage. This information is crucial for the evaluation of overall human-mediated transfers of Australian acacias as a global experiment in biogeography. Location Australia and Global. Methods ATSC databases were used to determine which taxa were sent to which regions of the world and in what numbers. Location, scale and value of uses of the most important species were described from a review of published and grey literature, and we drew on our collective experience to speculate about future trends. Results The ATSC despatched samples of 322 taxa (or roughly a third o Acacia species native to Australia) between 1980 and 2010 to 149 countries. Plantations in SE Asia and South Africa supplying the pulp and paper industry cover an area of over 2 M ha and produce pulp worth around $US4.3B p.a. In SE Asia, pulpwood species also provide logs for an expanding industry based on solid wood product. Tannin is produced from Acacia mearnsii in South Africa and Brazil. A suite of multi-purpose species helps meeting the demand for food, fodder, iuelwood, poles and site amelioration in dry zone regions of Africa and elsewhere and are widely incorporated into agro-forestry systems. Acacia saligna is the most widely planted non-timber species with around 600,000 ha established worldwide. Many acacia species also have horticultural uses particularly in Europe. Main conclusions The ATSC has been the major agent for systematic exploration and worldwide dissemination of Australian acacias over the past 30 years, but seed from local and regional sources of exploited species will dominate future movements. The scale of production from currently planted species will expand to meet the demands of population growth, using improved varieties. Plantations for energy and carbon sequestration might become increasingly widespread.
4539978| For decades, palynologists working in tropical South America are using the genus Podocarpus as a climate indicator although without referring to any modern data concerning its distribution and limiting factors. With the aim to characterize the modern and past distribution of the southern conifer Podocarpus in Brazil and to obtain new information on the distribution of the Atlantic rainforest during the Quaternary, we examined herbarium data to locate the populations of three Brazilian endemic Podocarpus species: P. sellowii, P. lambertii, and P. brasiliensis, and extracted DNA from fresh leaves from 26 populations. Our conclusions are drawn in the light of the combination of these three disciplines: botany, palynology, and genetics. We find that the modern distribution of endemic Podocarpus populations shows that they are widely dispersed in eastern Brazil, from north to south and reveals that the expansion of Podocarpus recorded in single Amazonian pollen records may have come from either western or eastern populations. Genetic analysis enabled us to delimit regional expansion: between 5 and 15 S grouping northern and central populations of P. sellowii expanded c. 16,000 years ago; between 15 and 23 S populations of either P. lambertii or sellowii expanded at different times since at least the last glaciation; and between 23 and 30 S, P. lambertii appeared during the recent expansion of the Araucaria forest. The combination of botany, pollen, and molecular analysis proved to be a rapid tool for inferring distribution borders for sparse populations and their regional evolution within tropical ecosystems. Today the refugia of rainforest communities we identified are crucial hotspots to allow the Atlantic forest to survive under unfavourable climatic conditions and, as such, offer the only possible opportunity for this type of forest to expand in the event of a future climate change. 
3246830|Does the shape of a biogeographical region influence its spatial patterns of species richness? A complete answer must include careful distinction between the distribution of a species, which is a complex geometric object, and the range of a species, which is relatively simple, especially when reduced to one dimension. We consider range-based models of species richness, in particular range overlap counts in one dimension, for which we give a unified mathematical treatment via the joint probability P(m,l) of midpoints and lengths of ranges. We discuss a number of difficulties, in practice and in principle, using range-based models, and show that the so-called mid-domain effect, a proposed null model for the effect of geometric constraint, is qualitatively a property of all biologically realistic models based on range overlap counts. As such, range-based models provide little insight into understanding or explaining biogeographical patterns in species richness. We characterize the quantitative null model for range overlap counts in one dimension, for which we give a simple and direct field test based on P(m,l). We apply this test to a large clade in a complete bioregion (the Proteaceae of the Cape Floristic Region): geometric constraint does not explain the spatial pattern in this case. We show that any geometric constraint on species richness, including range overlap counts, must act via edge effects. Thus, to understand biogeographical patterns, an understanding of the effects and consequences of edges is fundamental.
4539986|Idiographic analyses (i.e. detailed analyses of single species ranges) can be criticized for subjective and speculative reasoning. Medoid partition is suggested here as a method to perform a statistically supported idiographic analysis. The medoid algorithms attempt to group objects into clusters by finding a set of representative objects called medoids. If areas are the objects that are clustered using species occurrences (0/1) as variables, each cluster will be characterized by a medoid area. The species that characterize each medoid are representative of the entire cluster to which the medoid belongs and can be regarded as (statistically supported) species 'characteristic' of the main distributional patterns observed in the study system and can be used to draw idiographic observations. To illustrate the issues involved, the Coleoptera Tenebrionidae of the Aegean Islands (Greece) were analysed. Two species appeared to be characteristic of the Balkan cluster, while eight species were characteristic of the Anatolian one, and two species were equally distributed in both areas. Idiographic considerations based on these species outlined the importance of a Balkano-Anatolian discontinuity in the Aegean that prevented species dispersal between the two landmasses. This study illustrates that medoid analysis may help the researcher to find some representative patterns from a puzzling distribution. Traditional idiographic analyses can be biased by the fact that species are selected ad hoc. Thus, one cannot establish if results are truly objective or if the author intentionally selected, from a wider array of species, those that supported some preferred patterns. Medoid clustering uses the full array of species to find clusters of areas. After clusters are objectively defined, their medoids are examined to find species that mostly contributed to cluster definition, and the distribution patterns of these species are interpreted.
3696903|Although many studies have treated aspects of species geographical distributions and numerous approaches exist for understanding overall ecological correlates of distributions, software tools for exploring environmental correlates of distributional limits are relatively few. We focused on the challenge of understanding spatial correlates of distributional limits, and developed an extension to ARCVIEW that provides a simple, univariate test and visualization for such explorations. The 'Boundary U-test' seeks out environmental variables that show steep gradients associated with user-defined boundaries across geography. We illustrate the tool and its applications with an example of the likely historical distribution of Mexican wolf (Canis lupus).
4539925|In this study we propose a model-building approach based on the hierarchical integration of the main environmental factors (climate, topography/lithology, and land uses) determining the distribution of the spur-thighed tortoise in south-east Spain. Data on the presence/absence of the species were primarily based on information derived from interviews to shepherds. The hierarchical modelling exercise consisted of three steps. First, we constructed a model for the entire region using climate variables, thus obtaining a potential climatical model. Second, we introduced variables referring to topography and lithology that fall within the climatic distribution range (potential model). Third, by using this second model as a starting point, we included land use variables to obtain the actual distribution model. We analysed the changes in the values of probability of the presence of this species for a given cell between the potential and the actual model, assessing areas where habitat quality has decreased, been maintained or increased. The spatial representation of these changes was highly coherent. A discriminant analysis linked areas where habitat quality has dropped with agriculture landscapes, whereas those areas where habitat quality has been maintained or increased were located mainly in shrublands. Twenty-five per cent (
3246724|Bythotrephes Leydig is a predatory, onychopod cladoceran native to Eurasia that typically inhabits oligo- and mesotrophic water bodies of the Palaearctic region. It recently invaded 70 North American lakes, prompting a re-evaluation of the taxonomic status, global distribution, and determinants of local occurrence and abundance. European studies have reported two distinct species, B. longimanus, which lacks a kink on the caudal process, and B. cederstroemi, which possesses one. We employed sequencing of the mitochondrial gene cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) in addition to Directed Amplification of Minisatellite-region DNA (DAMD) using polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) to assay the genetic nature of these 'species'. These analyses revealed that the two taxa are consistent with a single, common species, Bythotrephes longimanus Leydig 1860, thus resolving the nomenclatural issue. Furthermore, a common haplotype was identified between Lake Ontario and Lake Puruvesi, Finland, suggesting a potential invasion corridor via the nearby Baltic Sea. Statistical analysis revealed that the two forms also occur in similar habitats in Eurasia and North America. Habitat characteristics of water bodies in Northern Europe, where both forms are found and occasionally co-occur, do not differ statistically. Similarly, no significant differences were detected between characteristics of Eurasian habitats that support longimanus 'forms' and those of inland lakes in North America that support cederstroemi 'forms'. Human activities have had a strong effect on the distribution of Bythotrephes in both Europe and North America. Global and local distributions have been affected by ballast water transfer and by boating and fishing activities, respectively. Cultural eutrophication, oligotrophication and acidification alter the suitability of habitats for fish predators, and may indirectly influence Bythotrephes' local occurrence and abundance.
40604232|Aim To demonstrate that multi-modelling methods have effectively been used to combine static species distribution models (SDM), predicting the geographical pattern of suitable habitat, with dynamic landscape and population models to forecast the impacts of environmental change on species' status, an important goal of conservation biogeography. Methods Three approaches were considered: (1) incorporating models of species migration to understand the ability of a species to occupy suitable habitat in new locations; (2) linking models of landscape disturbance and succession to models of habitat suitability; and (3) fully linking models of habitat suitability, habitat dynamics and spatially explicit population dynamics. Results Linking species-environment relationships, landscape dynamics and population dynamics in a multi-modelling framework allows the combined impacts of climate change (affecting species distribution and vital rates) and land cover dynamics (land use change, altered disturbance regimes) on species to be predicted. This approach is only feasible if the life history parameters and habitat requirements of the species are well understood. Main conclusions Forecasts of the impacts of global change on species may be improved by considering multiple causes. A range of methods are available to address the interactions of changing habitat suitability, habitat dynamics and population response that vary in their complexity, realism and data requirements.
3877720|Mutualisms may play an important role in the establishment and invasion success of introduced species, but their influence is little studied. To test whether a lack of root nodule symbionts may limit the performance of invasive legumes, seedlings of Cytisus scoparius were introduced to an old-field habitat and then either inoculated with Bradyrhizobium strains from existing C scoparius populations, or left uninoculated. In two separate years, inoculation more than doubled average plant biomass. For uninoculated transplants, nodule formation was positively correlated with proximity to plants of the native legume Desmodium canadense, but not related to distance from a second legume species, Apios americana. Polymerase chain reaction assays and DNA sequencing confirmed that bacteria isolated from uninoculated C. scoparius plants were indistinguishable from Bradyrhizobium strains in root nodules of D. canadense. By contrast, bacterial strains associated with A. americana were never found in C. scoparius nodules. Transplants in seven other habitats across a 160 km region also showed a highly significant, fivefold biomass increase in response to inoculation. Thus, colonizing legumes can suffer from a scarcity of nodule symbionts. However, certain indigenous legumes may create favourable microhabitats for invasion, by increasing symbiont availability in their vicinity.
41242798|Aim To estimate invasiveness of exotic plant species, many studies have used the frequency of occurrence within a defined region. This measure is informative on how widespread exotics are, however, it does not inform on their local dominance, which is crucial for conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. The aim of the present study is to determine if regional frequency of occurrence of exotic plant species indeed is indicative of their local dominance. We also determined which plant traits and other factors predict regional and local frequencies best. Location The Netherlands. Methods We used information on exotic plant species established in The Netherlands and compared traits relating to their frequency of occurrence regionally (the entire country) and their frequency of dominance locally (in 1-100 m quadrats). We created minimal adequate models with factors explaining regional frequency and frequency of local dominance of 111 exotic plant species in The Netherlands. Results The model that used plant traits to explain regional frequency of exotic plant species differed from the models that best explained their frequency of local dominance. Regionally, the factors that correlated with frequency were: life form, height, polyploidy, length of flowering season, residence time, human use and origin. The factors that correlated to frequency of local dominance were lateral vegetative spread and residence time. Main conclusions We conclude that plant traits relating to the regional frequency of exotic plant species differ from those that relate to their frequency of local dominance. The implication of our results is that predictive studies on plant invasiveness based on regional frequencies may not be indicative of the local impacts. Since the prediction of local impacts is crucial for conservation and risk assessment, our study emphasized the need for better information on the local abundance of exotic invaders.
3246861|Demographic and life-history attributes of the mole crab Emerita brasiliensis were analysed along 2700 km of the Atlantic coast of South America, including sandy beaches at the southernmost limit (Uruguay) and at the core of its geographical range (Brazil). Population features varied markedly within this range and exhibited systematic geographical patterns of variation. Abundance significantly increased from temperate to subtropical beaches, and the same held true for the asymptotic weight of males. Conversely, length at maturity and asymptotic weight of females increased from subtropical to temperate beaches, being inversely related to sea water temperature. Macroecological patterns in abundance and body weight showed the first large-scale evidence of scaling of population density to body size for a sandy beach population. Mortality rates (both sexes) followed a nonlinear increase from low-density temperate beaches to high-density subtropical beaches. The effect of habitat quality and availability could explain discontinuities in the species distribution within its range, and also differential responses in life-history attributes at a local scale. Asymmetries and converse latitudinal trends between sexes suggest that there is not a single general factor determining large-scale patterns in life-history traits of this species. Our results reinforce the view that density-dependent and environmental factors operating together regulate sandy beach populations. The need to develop macroecological studies in sandy beach ecology is highlighted, as knowledge acquired from local to large spatial scales throws light on population structure and regulation mechanisms.
3696891|Weikard et al. (Diversity and Distributions, 12, 215-217) show that the taxonomic diversity measure proposed by Ricotta (2004) violates 'weak species monotonicity'. This condition requires that the addition of a species to a given species set should always increase diversity if abundances change only marginally. They further propose a new taxonomic diversity index that overcomes this drawback. In this paper, some statistical properties of this new diversity index are briefly analysed.
3877743|For more than 100 years, non-native conifers have been introduced into habitats in the USA that already support native conifers. These introductions have yielded few naturalizations and even less evidence of invasions. We investigated the specific fates of nine non-native conifers in an array of introduction sites across the USA (Priest River, Idaho, Wind River, Washington, Cedar Creek, Minnesota, and Nantucket Is. and Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts) through tree-ring analyses, comparisons of growth with adjacent native conifer populations, and surveys for regeneration and spread. Most of the original non-native tree plantings have died (e.g. Abies veitchii, Pinus densiflora and Pinus halepensis at Wind River, WA); a few have survived but display low vigour and are not regenerating (e.g. Larix decidua, Pinus mugo, and Picea abies stands at Priest River, ID). Pinus sylvestris recruitment is apparent at all sites examined. Pinus thunbergii appears to be invasive on Nantucket Is., although the native Bursaphelenchus xylophilus (pinewood nematode) causes high mortality in mature trees. Non-native Pinus spp. at the Eddy Arboretum, California and Pack Forest, Washington also experienced high mortality. Dendroclimatic analyses revealed no difference in the effect of climate on the annual growth of native and non-native conifers. Plantations of introduced conifers in the south-eastern USA have died en masse (e.g. Harrison Experimental Forest, Mississippi, Olustee Arboretum, Florida). Such widespread extirpations are in sharp contrast to the fate of native conifers in adjacent stands as well as the multiple cases of large-scale conifer invasions in the Southern Hemisphere. Given the diversity of alien plant species that have invaded the USA, the circumstances surrounding the lack of persistence of introduced conifers becomes an important line of inquiry for understanding the factors and circumstances that facilitate or thwart biological invasions.
2673340|A predictive understanding of the environmental controls on forest distributions is essential for the conservation of biodiversity and management of landscapes in the tropics. This is particularly true now because of potentially rapid climate change. The floristic complexity of tropical forests and the lack or absence of data severely limits the applicability of modelling methods based on the ecology or distribution of individual species. Here we present an artificial neural network (ANN) model using the information available in the humid tropics of North Queensland: a structural classification of forest types, maps of the forest mosaic, and estimates of spatial environmental variables. The ANN model characterizes the relative suitabilities of environments for 15 forest classes defined by their physiognomy and canopy structure. Inputs include seven climate variables, nine soil parent-material classes, and seven terrain variables. The data used to train the model consisted of a stratified random sample of 75000 points. Output of the model is used to measure the dissimilarity between the environment at each location and the environment that would be most suitable for the forest type that is mapped there. The model is highly successful at distinguishing the relative suitability of environments for the forest classes with 75% of the region's forest mosaic accurately predicted by the model at a one hectare resolution. In contrast, a comparable maximum likelihood classification has an accuracy of only 38%. In the remaining 25% of the region the environments are quite dissimilar to what would be expected for the forest types present there. This is especially the case at boundaries between forest classes and for a transitional forest class. Areas mapped as this disturbed, transitional class are generally classified by the model as having environments suitable to the forest type they are most likely to become. The approach has high potential for the analysis of climate change impacts as well as inferring vegetation patterns in the past and should be applicable wherever vegetation maps and spatial estimates of climate variables are available.
4124780|Several species of the genus Heracleum (Umbelliferae) were introduced into Europe from south-west Asia in the 19th century and are now widespread in many countries. At least three invasive taxa with unresolved relationships to one another are thought to occur in Europe: Heracleum mantegazzianum Sommier & Levier, H. sosnowskyi Manden, and H. persicum Desf. ex Fischer. They are tall plants forming extensive stands with a high cover. To elucidate genetic relationships between the species, and gain insight into their invasion history, samples were collected from native ranges in Asia and invaded ranges of the three species in Europe and analysed using amplified fragment length polymorphism. Five other Heracleum species were also studied and in total, 189 samples from 72 populations were analysed. The results confirmed that there are three distinct tall Heracleum species invading in Europe. Within each of the three species, plants collected in the invaded range are genetically close to those from their native ranges. A close genetic relationship between the three invasive Heracleum species in Europe was also found. A high overall genetic variability detected in the invaded range suggests that the majority of invading populations were not affected by a genetic bottleneck and that rapid evolution, drift, or hybridization played a role in genetic structuring of invading populations. For H. mantegazzianum, genetic distance of populations in the native range significantly decreased with geographical distance, but not in the invaded range. It is likely that the current pattern of genetic diversity in Europe resulted from multiple introductions of all three species.
3696831| This paper presents an assessment of spider diversity in a complex landscape of southern Mexico. Eighteen different habitats were identified, measured and mapped across this fragmented landscape. Habitat types were characterized by measuring various features, including number of plant forms, tree cover and litter depth. Each month from February to April (dry season) and from June to August 2002 (wet season), spiders were sampled on each habitat by using pitfall traps and direct collection. Correlations between spider diversity and habitat characteristics were carried out to explore the relative contribution of each habitat variable as related to changes in spider composition and richness. In total, 115 spider species were recorded in 18 habitat types, and the mean number and density of species per habitat were 21 ( 3, standard error of mean) and 57 ( 9), respectively. The species recorded represent 41% of the fauna recorded in the Mexican state of Chiapas and 4% of the fauna recorded in Mexico. Relatively pristine habitats (e.g. deciduous forest) contained an important proportion of spider diversity in this fragmented landscape. Epigean spider diversity was significantly correlated with tree cover and with the diversity of plant forms during the rainy season. No correlation was detected between soil spider diversity and the habitat variables measured for any season. The results of this work suggest that in highly fragmented tropical landscapes, some habitat types (e.g. coffee plantations, hedgerows) might play an important role for the persistence of spider populations. The prevalence of relatively stable conditions in some of these habitats can allow spiders species (e.g. Nephila clavipes) to overcome adverse conditions such as a decrease in humidity and dramatic changes in temperature and wind exposure, allowing them to recolonize when favourable conditions return. 
4124772|Aquatic invasive species cause deleterious environmental and economic impacts, and are rapidly spreading through ecosystems worldwide. Despite this, very few data sets exist that describe both the presence and the absence of invaders over long time periods. We have used Geographical Information Systems (GIS) to analyse time-series data describing the spread of the freshwater invasive New Zealand mudsnail, Potamopyrgus antipodarum, in Victoria, Australia, over 110 years. We have mapped the snail's spread, estimated the percentage of stream length invaded through time, calculated the functional form of the spread rate, and investigated the role that the two proposed vectors - fish stocking and angling - have had in this invasion. Since it was first found in 1895, P. antipodarum has expanded its range in Victoria and now occurs throughout much of the southern and central areas of the state. The north of the state is relatively less invaded than the south, with the division corresponding approximately to the presence of the Great Dividing Range. We show that the snail's range has been increasing at an approximately exponential rate and estimate that 20% of total Victorian stream length is currently invaded. We also show that using long-term data can change the outcome of analyses of the relationship between vectors of spread and invasion status of separate catchments. When our time-series data were aggregated through time, the total numbers of fish stocking events and angling activity were both correlated with invasion. However, when the time-series data were used and the number of fish stocking events calculated up until the date of invasion, no relationships with stocking were found. These results underline the role that time-series data, based on both presences and absences, have to play when investigating the spread of invasive species.
20532092|Aim: Anthropogenic habitat loss is usually cited as the most important cause of recent species' extinctions. We ask whether species losses are in fact more closely related to habitat loss than to any other aspect of human activity such as use of agricultural pesticides, or human population density (which reflects urbanization). Location: Canada. Methods: We statistically compared areas in Canada where imperiled species currently occur, versus areas where they have been lost. Using multiple regressions, we relate the numbers of species that had suffered range reductions in an ecoregion to variables that represent present habitat loss, pesticide use and human population density. Results: We find high losses of imperiled species in regions with high proportions of agricultural land cover. However, losses of imperiled species are significantly more strongly related to the proportion of the region treated with agricultural pesticides. The relationship between species losses and area treated with pesticides remains significant after controlling for area in agriculture. Main conclusions: Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that agricultural pesticide use, or something strongly collinear with it (perhaps intensive agriculture more generally), has contributed significantly to the decline of imperiled species in Canada. Habitat conversion per se may be a less important cause of species declines than how that converted habitat is used.
20172061| Aim: Although Abies alba is not yet prioritized for conservation in many European countries, its importance is acknowledged under the EU Directive on the marketing for forest reproductive material. The Apuseni National Park contains one of the largest areas of remnant native A. alba in central eastern Europe. Here, we examine the antiquity of the present A. alba communities in the forests of NW Romania and the drivers behind their variability over the last 6000 years leading to current distribution pattern. Location: The Apuseni National Park (ANP), NW Romania. Methods: We use fossil pollen, microscopic and macroscopic charcoal and AMSC dating on four sedimentary sites in the west-central ANP. Results: The results reveal that stands of A. alba have been growing in NW Romania from at least 5700 yr BP and occurred in low abundance until 4200 yr BP. A. alba expanded thereafter and it thrived in multispecies forest stands with Fagus, Picea, Carpinus, Tilia, Quercus and Ulmus between 4200 and 1200 yr BP. The initial expansion occurred during an independently documented period of high moisture and cooler temperature as inferred from isotope data from cave stalagmites within this region. The final decline in A. alba abundance and distribution started from about 1200 yr BP and reached an unprecedently low value over the last 300 years, which was primarily caused by the increase in human activities in the region through deforestation, forest browsing and burning, and commercial forestry. Main conclusion: Different management strategies ranging from restriction on harvesting and browsing need to be implemented in this region if A. alba is going to survive the forecasted decrease in precipitation and increase in temperature, which will further reduce its spatial distribution. 
3246787|The winter-rainfall region of southern Africa, covered largely by the fynbos and succulent karoo biomes, harbours the world's greatest concentration of geophyte species. Species diversity is greatest in the south-west, where more than 500 species co-occur in one quarter-degree square; in the south-east the values are generally around 100, and in the arid north-west, always less than 50 (more often less than 10). In at least three species-rich genera (Moraea, Eriospermum and Oxalis), the size of storage organs (bulbs, corms, tubers) varies inversely, with the largest average values occurring in the species-poorer areas - both in the north-western, and in the south-eastern parts of the region. This negative correlation between average storage organ size and species diversity is, however, only observed at relatively large spatial scales, which suggests that there is no direct relationship between storage organ size and species diversity. More likely, both these measures are driven by winter rainfall amount and reliability, both of which peak in the south-western Cape. We suggest that reliable winter rainfall makes large storage organs unnecessary and depresses extinction rates, thus leading to the accumulation of species.
3877718|Energy, climate, habitat heterogeneity, and human activity are important correlates of spatial variation in species richness. We examined the correlation between species richness and these variables using the birds that breed in northern Taiwan. We conducted general linear models (GLMs) and spatial correlation models to examine the relationship between bird species richness (BSR) and environmental variables. We found that normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) was the most important predictor of BSR. We suggest productivity is the primary process of BSR. Additionally, we hypothesized that scale dependency might exist in the relationship between BSR and NDVI in Taiwan. Human population density, the second most important factor, was inversely correlated with BSR. The factor and BSR did not have similar response to NDVI, which contradicted observations in most of the previous studies on human population vs. species richness. We proposed that the human population density had an effect on NDVI, which in turn had an effect on BSR. Moreover, we hypothesized that the contradiction between our study and the previous studies might arise from a higher level of human disturbance in Taiwan than in other areas. The necessity of conserving native species in intensively developed lowlands of Taiwan cannot be overemphasized. Number of land cover type was another significant predictor of BSR. Habitat heterogeneity may have an effect on BSR in Taiwan.
41242854|Aim The spatial resolution of species atlases and therefore resulting model predictions are often too coarse for local applications. Collecting distribution data at a finer resolution for large numbers of species requires a comprehensive sampling effort, making it impractical and expensive. This study outlines the incorporation of existing knowledge into a conventional approach to predict the distribution of Bonelli's eagle (Aquila fasciata) at a resolution 100 times finer than available atlas data. Location Malaga province, Andalusia, southern Spain. Methods A Bayesian expert system was proposed to utilize the knowledge from distribution models to yield the probability of a species being recorded at a finer resolution (1 x 1 km) than the original atlas data (10 x 10 km). The recorded probability was then used as a weight vector to generate a sampling scheme from the species atlas to enhance the accuracy of the modelling procedure. The maximum entropy for species distribution modelling (MaxEnt) was used as the species distribution model. A comparison was made between the results of the MaxEnt using the enhanced and, the random sampling scheme, based on four groups of environmental variables: topographic, climatic, biological and anthropogenic. Results The models with the sampling scheme enhanced by an expert system had a higher discriminative capacity than the baseline models. The downscaled (i.e. finer scale) species distribution maps using a hybrid MaxEnt/expert system approach were more specific to the nest locations and were more contrasted than those of the baseline model. Main conclusions The proposed method is a feasible substitute for comprehensive field work. The approach developed in this study is applicable for predicting the distribution of Bonelli's eagle at a local scale from a nationallevel occurrence data set; however, the usefulness of this approach may be limited to well-known species.
3246888|Introduced plant species that became successful invaders appear often more vigorous and taller than their conspecifics in the native range. Reasons postulated to explain this better performance in the introduced range include more favourable environmental conditions and release from natural enemies and pathogens. According to the Evolution of Increased Competitive Ability hypothesis (EICA hypothesis) there is a trade-off between investment into defence against herbivores and pathogens, and investment into a stronger competitive ability. In this study, we conducted field surveys to investigate whether populations of the invasive perennial Solidago gigantea Ait (Asteraceae) differ with respect to growth and size in the native and introduced range, respectively. We assessed size and morphological variation of 46 populations in the native North American range and 45 populations in the introduced European range. Despite considerable variation between populations within continents, there were pronounced differences between continents. The average population size, density and total plant biomass were larger in European than in American populations. Climatic differences and latitude explained only a small proportion of the total variation between the two continents. The results show that introduced plants can be very distinct in their growth form and size from conspecifics in the native range. The apparently better performance of this invasive species in Europe may be the result of changed selection pressures, as implied by the EICA hypothesis.
2999828|We have analysed the genetic variation and biogeographic and evolutionary histories of North African populations of the genus Barbus Cuvier and Cloquet, 1816 representing the recognized taxa. The eighteen populations chosen were analysed using allozyme electrophoresis. A Spanish population of B. sclateri was included as an outgroup. The mean parameters of genetic variability (H
3877731|Invasive plants can simplify plant community structure, alter ecosystem processes and undermine the ecosystem services that we derive from biotic diversity. Two invasive plants, purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) and reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea), are becoming the dominant species in many wetlands across temperate North America. We used a horizontal, observational study to estimate per capita effects (PCEs) of purple loosestrife and reed canary grass on plant diversity in 24 wetland communities in the Pacific Northwest, USA. Four measures of diversity were used: the number of species (S), evenness of relative abundance (J), the Shannon-Wiener index (H') and Simpson's index (D). We show that (1) the PCEs on biotic diversity were similar for both invasive species among the four measures of diversity we examined; (2) the relationship between plant diversity and invasive plant abundance ranges from linear (constant slope) to negative exponential (variable slope), the latter signifying that the PCEs are density-dependent; (3) the PCEs were density-dependent for measures of diversity sensitive to the number of species (S, H', D) but not for the measure that relied solely upon relative abundance (J); and (4) invader abundance was not correlated with other potential influences on biodiversity (hydrology, soils, topography). These results indicate that both species are capable of reducing plant community diversity, and management strategies need to consider the simultaneous control of multiple species if the goal is to maintain diverse plant communities.
2673301|The 1929 eruption of Mount Koma (1140m in altitude) completely deforested the vegetation on the summit area of the volcano. An alien species of larch, Larix kaempferi (=L. leptolepis) was planted on the lower slopes of the volcano between 1953 and 1963, but since then has become abundant on the summit. To determine the regeneration patterns of the larch, we measured stem densities on aerial photographs taken in 1963, 1973 and 1994, and in the field during 1996. Larix kaempferi stems with crown diameters >2 m were mapped on aerial photographs divided into 1083 100m  100m grids. Stem densities on the summit increased from 0.8/ha in 1963, to 14.1/ha in 1994. Willows and birches also established there but did not grow as large as the larch. All these species are wind dispersed, and larch densities were higher in areas closer to the plantations, suggesting that wind intensity and direction determined seed migration. Four environmental factors-slope gradient, direction, elevation, and distance from the plantations in each grid-were correlated with larch stem densities. Multiple regression showed that establishment patterns of L. kaempferi in the early stages were mainly related to distance from seed source (the plantations). Later, geographical disturbances and/or physiological stresses became more important. Density effects on tree invasion have been weak until now. We concluded that revegetation primarily depends on the chance of seed immigration, and that the larches may be an earlier successional species than any other native tree species.
3696840|We fitted spatial autocorrelation functions to distance-based data for assemblages of birds and for three attributes of birds' habitats at 140 locations, separated by up to 65 km, in the Great Basin (Nevada, USA). The three habitat characteristics were taxonomic composition of the vegetation, physical structure of the vegetation, and a measure of primary productivity, the normalized difference vegetation index, estimated from satellite imagery. We found that a spherical model was the best fit to data for avifaunal composition, vegetation composition, and primary productivity, but the distance at which spatial correlation effectively was zero differed substantially among data sets (c. 30 km for birds, 20 km for vegetation composition, and 60 km for primary productivity). A power-law function was the best fit to data for vegetation structure, indicating that the structure of vegetation differed by similar amounts irrespective of distance between locations (up to the maximum distance measured). Our results suggested that the spatial structure of bird assemblages is more similar to vegetation composition than to either vegetation structure or primary productivity, but is autocorrelated over larger distances. We believe that the greater mobility of birds compared with plants may be responsible for this difference.
40800802|Aim Exotic species may serve as vectors for the introduction of parasites from their native range and may also become infected by parasites already present in invaded areas, but the total number of parasites infecting such exotic species in their invaded areas is typically less than that in their native range. We tested whether the diversity of parasites associated with exotic species in the native and invaded areas is related to the epizootic impact these parasites cause. Location Global. Methods We examined the diversity and epizootic impact of 384 parasite taxa associated with 22 exotic freshwater invertebrate species. The epizootic impact of each parasite was rated based on whether it had been documented to cause a major pathological impact on a large proportion of an infected host population (other than the invader under consideration). Results The total number of parasites associated with an exotic host in its native range was about twice that of all parasites associated with it in its entire invaded range. This was mainly because of the loss in the invaded areas of low impact parasites, whereas the average number of high impact parasites per host in these areas did not differ statistically from that in the native range. Main conclusions Our study suggests similar levels of adverse impact of parasites of exotic species in both their native and invaded areas. In addition to the introduction of highly pathogenic exotic parasites, other mechanisms that may be involved include (1) acquisition by the invaders of new high impact parasites in the invaded ranges, (2) high abundance of the invaders in their new ranges and (3) susceptibility of novel hosts to exotic parasites because of the ' naive host syndrome'.
40604222|Aim The small island effect (SIE), i.e. the hypothesis that species richness below a certain threshold area varies independently of island size, has become a widely accepted part of the theory of island biogeography. However, there are doubts whether the findings of SIEs were based on appropriate methods. The aim of this study was thus to provide a statistically sound methodology for the detection of SIEs and to show this by re-analysing data in which an SIE has recently been claimed (Sfenthourakis & Triantis, 2009, Diversity and Distributions, 15, 131-140). Location Ninety islands of the Aegean Sea (Greece). Methods First, I reviewed publications on SIEs and evaluated their methodology.Then, I fitted different species-area models to the published data of area (A) and species richness (S) of terrestrial isopods (Oniscidea), with log A as predictor and both S (logarithm function) and log S (power function) as response variables: (i) linear; (ii) quadratic; (iii) cubic; (iv) breakpoint with zero slope to the left (SIE model); (v) breakpoint with zero slope to the right; (vi) two-slope model. I used non-linear regression with R adj. , AIC c and BIC as goodness-of-fit measures. Results Many different methods have been applied for detecting SIEs, all of them with serious shortcomings. Contrary to the claim of the original study, no SIE occurs in this particular dataset as the two-slope variants performed better than the SIE variants for both the logarithm and power functions. Main conclusions For the unambiguous detection of SIEs, one needs to (i) include islands with no species; (ii) compare all relevant models; and (iii) account for different model complexities. As none of the reviewed SIE studies met all these criteria, their findings are dubious and SIEs may be less common than reported. Thus, conservation-related predictions based on the assumption of SIEs may be unreliable.
20171955| The distribution of tropical plant and animal diversity is still poorly documented, especially at spatial resolutions of practical use for conservation. In the present study, we evaluated the level to which geographical incomplete data availability of species occurrence affects the perception of biodiversity patterns (species richness and endemism) among pteridophytes in Bolivia. We used a data base of Bolivian pteridophytes (27,501 records), divided it into three time periods (1900-70, up to 1990 and up to 2006), and created grid-files at 15-resolution for species richness and endemism. For each of these biodiversity properties we estimated the species richness (Chao 2) and the index of sampling completeness (C index) per grid, and then all these variables at both species richness and endemism were correlated. Patterns of richness were fairly consistent along all periods; the richest areas were placed along the humid-montane forest, even though they were strongly influenced by collecting intensity. Endemism had a lower degree of correlation with collecting intensity, but varied much more strongly through time than species richness. According to the C index, which gives the ratio between estimated (by Chao 2) and recorded values of species richness and endemism, both biodiversity properties tended to be undersampled in the richest grid cells. Inter-temporal correlations showed sharper differences of correlations for endemism than species richness. Consequently, already in 1970, botanists had a correct idea of the spatial distribution of pteridophyte richness in Bolivia (even though the magnitude was grossly underestimated). In contrast, patterns of endemism, which are of high conservation importance, may not even today be reliably known. 
20532097|Aim: We evaluate whether remotely sensed land-cover change within a newly protected area signalled human-driven ecological degradation. Vegetation density changed in a quarter of pixels during the first 13 years (1986-1999) following the sanctuary's formal enclosure, with many patches showing a decrease in density. We use on-the-ground data collected in 2006 in 132 random plots to explore whether these changes in vegetation density reliably signalled latent shifts in local diversity of woody plants and whether they could be attributed to illicit activities including fuel wood collection and livestock grazing. Location: Kumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary, Rajasthan, India. Results: Species richness, species sharing, species assemblages, and incidence of invasive and useful species were statistically similar among plots in which vegetation density had decreased, increased or remained similar. Likewise, intensity of disturbance associated with human activities was similar across these plot types. Main conclusions: Our data provide no clear evidence that local changes in vegetation density signalled latent shifts in local diversity of woody plants. They also fail to reveal any clear association between local changes in vegetation density and human-related activities. Finding no evidence that land-cover change led to biotic erosion, we reflect on the utility of resource-use bans in protected areas, particularly those embedded within historically coupled human-nature systems.
3246880| Modelling potential species distributions has become a powerful tool for botanists in recent years. Using herbarium specimen data and GIS desktop software, we modelled the potential distribution of 36 endemic and 47 non-endemic species of Anthurium (Araceae) in Ecuador based on mean annual temperature and humidity. Our results indicate the most important region for endemics in western Ecuador lies between the Andes and Coastal mountain ranges between 200 and 700 m, while for eastern Ecuador a belt of potential high diversity occurs directly along the foothills of the Andes under 1000 m. A very interesting result of this study highlights a site of predicted high species diversity at the borders of Guyas, Caar, Bolivar, and Chimborazo, as well as sites within the Cordillera del Condor along the border with Peru. Potential richness for non-endemic Anthurium species was similar to that of endemics with the inclusion of a large area of Amazonian lowlands in the east of the country. Over 40% of the protected areas in Ecuador occur in the eastern Amazonian lowlands, an area of low diversity for Anthurium endemics. Overall, for areas with potential high concentrations of endemic species identified in this study, only 3.1% are within Ecuador's protected areas. 
4539977| Mounting evidence indicates large-scale climatic phenomena such as El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) can overwhelm endogenous factors that govern the population dynamics of wild species. We add to this evidence by documenting an ENSO-related decline of large mammals in the Kumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary, in Rajasthan, India. This event coincided with the drought of 2000, following two consecutive monsoon failures. Time series of biennial counts (1991-2005) shared a common feature: all 13 species declined in abundance from 1999 to 2001, with 11 species experiencing an apparent decline exceeding 25%. An ENSO index explained much of the variability in population size, apparently reflecting mass mortality and/or recruitment failure caused by the major 1998-2000 La Nia event, followed by a rapid rebound. ENSO apparently overwhelmed endogenous factors and synchronized the dynamics of the mammalian community. Our findings may prove to be symptomatic of geographically broad impacts of large-scale climate on the dynamics of terrestrial vertebrate communities, even in protected areas. Our findings reinforce the growing recognition that we should not overlook global-scale causal agents of ecological change. 
20532102|Aim: Limnomysis benedeni Czerniavsky, 1882 is a mysid crustacean native to the Ponto-Caspian (Black and Caspian Sea) rivers and estuaries, and has recently spread across Europe through intentional and unintentional introductions. We explored the structuring of genetic variation in native and non-native populations with an aim to trace the sources of the invasions, and to infer whether the spread has occurred through a single or multiple invasion waves. Location: Native estuaries in the Ponto-Caspian basin (Volga, Don, Dnieper, Dniester, Danube) and the recently colonized range along the Danube-Rhine river systems and Lithuania. Methods: A fragment of the mitochondrial COI gene was sequenced to assess genetic affinities and diversity in native and recently established populations. Results: The genetic diversity in the native regions is organized into several strongly diverged haplotype groups or lineages, partly allopatric, partly sympatric. All these lineages have also spread beyond the native range. Even the recent rapid dispersal across Europe along the Danube-Rhine system towards the North Sea basin involved several lineages from the Danube delta sector. The structuring of genetic diversity among invaded sites suggests multiple invasion events to the Danube-Rhine drainage. This contrasts with data from some other Ponto-Caspian species, where a single haplotype seems to have occupied most invaded areas. There is no evidence that intentionally stocked reservoirs in the Baltic Sea basin would have contributed to further unintentional spread of L. benedeni. Main conclusions: Limnomysis benedeni is spreading across Europe using the southern invasion corridor. The invasion most likely involved several waves from differentiated sources in the native Danube delta area.
40390760|Aim To determine the potential combined effects of climate change and land transformation on the modelled geographic ranges of Banksia. Location Mediterranean climate South West Australian Floristic Region (SWAFR). Methods We used the species distribution modelling software MAXENT to relate current environmental conditions to occurrence data for 18 Banksia species, and subsequently made spatial predictions using two simple dispersal scenarios (zero and universal), for three climate-severity scenarios at 2070, taking the impacts of land transformation on species' ranges into account. The species were chosen to reflect the biogeography of Banksia in the SWAFR. Results Climate-severity scenario, dispersal scenario, biogeographic distribution and land transformation all influenced the direction and magnitude of the modelled range change responses for the 18 species. The predominant response of species to all climate change scenarios was range contraction, with exceptions for some northern and widespread species. Including land transformation in estimates of modelled geographic range size for the three climate-severity scenarios generally resulted in smaller gains and larger declines in species ranges across both dispersal scenarios. Including land transformation and assuming zero dispersal resulted, as expected, in the greatest declines in projected range size across all species. Increasing climate change severity greatly increased the risk of decline in the 18 Banksia species, indicating the critical role of mitigating future emissions. Main conclusions The combined effects of climate change and land transformation may have significant adverse impacts on endemic Proteaceae in the SWAFR, especially under high emissions scenarios and if, as expected, natural migration is limiting. Although these results need cautious interpretation in light of the many assumptions underlying the techniques used, the impacts identified warrant a clear focus on monitoring across species ranges to detect early signs of change, and experiments that determine physiological thresholds for species in order to validate and refine the models.
3246893| A field experiment was conducted to examine the morphological variations of Leymus chinensis along the climatic gradient of the North-east China Transect (NECT), from 115 to 125 E, in the vicinity of 43.5 N, in north-eastern China. Ten sites selected for plant sampling along the gradient have approximately uniform theoretical radiation, but differ in precipitation and geographical elevation. The results of analyses showed that vegetative and reproductive shoot heights, flag leaf lengths and widths and seed numbers per inflorescence increased from the west to the east with precipitation, but decreased with aridity. Leaf lengths and widths for most leaf types from 115 to 124 E exhibited little variations. Significant correlations of plant heights, flag leaf lengths and widths and seed numbers per inflorescence with large-scale climatic variables (e.g. annual precipitation, aridity) and geographical variation (longitude) found in this study indicated that climatic factors have significant effects on some morphological traits of I. chinensis along the NECT. 
41242811|Aim Humans have dramatically transformed landscapes along the US-Mexico border. We aim to assess the risk of barriers that may significantly impede animal migrations within this ecologically sensitive region. Location United States and Mexico. Methods We examined the intersection of current and possible future barriers along the border with the geographic ranges of 313 amphibian, reptile and nonvolant mammal species. We considered the areas of intensive human land use and ~ 600 km of pedestrian fence as current barriers along the border. We evaluated the impacts of two scenarios of dispersal barriers - continuation of existing and construction of new barriers - and identified species vulnerable to global and local extinction. Results Among the species most at risk from current barriers are four species listed as threatened globally or by both nations, 23 species for which the larger of their two national subranges is < 10 km and 29 species whose ranges cross the border only marginally. Three border regions, California, Madrean archipelago and Gulf coast, emerge as being of particular concern. These regions are characterized by high overall species richness and high richness of species at risk from existing barriers and from construction of potential new barriers. Main conclusions New barriers along the border would increase the number of species at risk, especially in the three identified regions, which should be prioritized for mitigation of the impacts of current barriers. The species we identified as being potentially at risk merit further study to determine impacts of border dispersal barriers.
3246843|The efficiency of four nonparametric species richness estimators - first-order Jackknife, second-order Jackknife, Chao2 and Bootstrap - was tested using simulated quadrat sampling of two field data sets (a sandy 'Dune' and adjacent 'Swale') in high diversity shrublands (kwongan) in south-western Australia. The data sets each comprised > 100 perennial plant species and > 10 000 individuals, and the explicit (x-y coordinate) location of every individual. We applied two simulated sampling strategies to these data sets based on sampling quadrats of unit sizes 1/400th and 1/100th of total plot area. For each site and sampling strategy we obtained 250 independent sample curves, of 250 quadrats each, and compared the estimators' performances by using three indices of bias and precision: MRE (mean relative error), MSRE (mean squared relative error) and OVER (percentage overestimation). The analysis presented here is unique in providing sample estimates derived from a complete, field-based population census for a high diversity plant community. In general the true reference value was approached faster for a comparable area sampled for the smaller quadrat size and for the swale field data set, which was characterized by smaller plant size and higher plant density. Nevertheless, at least 15-30% of the total area needed to be sampled before reasonable estimates of S
40390769|Aim To investigate the potential impacts of climate change on stream fish assemblages in terms of species and biological trait diversity, composition and similarity. Location One-thousand one-hundred and ten stream sections in France. Methods We predicted the future potential distribution of 35 common stream fish species facing changes in temperature and precipitation regime. Seven diffrent species distribution models were applied and a consensus forecast was produced to limit uncertainty between single-models. The potential impacts of climate change on fish assemblages were assessed using both species and biological trait approaches. We then addressed the spatial distribution of potential impacts along the upstream-downstream gradient. Results Overall, climate change was predicted to result in an increase in species and trait diversity. Species and trait composition of the fish assemblages were also projected to be highly modified. Changes in assemblages' diversity and composition differed strongly along the upstream-downstream gradient, with upstream and midstream assemblages more modified than downstream assemblages. We also predicted a global increase in species and trait similarity between pairwise assemblages indicating a future species and trait homogenization of fish assemblages. Nevertheless, we found that upstream assemblages would differentiate, whereas midstream and downstream assemblages would homogenize. Our results suggested that colonization could be the main driver of the predicted homogenization, while local extinctions could result in assemblage differentiation. Main conclusions This study demonstrated that climate change could lead to contrasted impacts on fish assemblage structure and diversity depending on the position along the upstream-downstream gradient. These results could have important implications in terms of ecosystem monitoring as they could be useful in establishing areas that would need conservation prioritization.
4124760|Species occurrence databases and climate databases were used to examine differences in patterns of species experienced climate across latitude for wide-ranging rodents in the central-eastern and western North America. The accumulated data were used to address three questions: (1) Do rodent species in the central and eastern region of North America select habitat at range edges to remain closer to climate conditions at the range core? (2) Is there a trend toward species having greater experienced climate variation consistent with smaller effects of orbitally controlled climate oscillations in the south vs. north? (3) How do species experienced temperature, precipitation, and elevation means and variation in this region compare to rodent species in the adjacent but more heterogeneous western North America? Results showed that central-eastern North American species occur in as wide a range of environmental conditions as available throughout their ranges. These patterns are different from previous findings for rodents in the adjacent western USA and highlight major differences in current structure of species experienced environmental means and variation over latitude for species in spatially heterogeneous, mountainous areas vs. those that occupy flatter lands. The differences are likely important for determining differential response to climate changes.
20172040|Although some invasive plants are cosmopolitan, not all ecosystems are invaded to the same degree. Yet there is little experimental work on how ecosystem resistance to invasion at the establishment phase differs among ecosystems. We conducted two field sowing experiments in two consecutive years to examine establishment of the deciduous tree Ailanthus altissima, the succulent subshrub Carpobrotus spp. and the annual geophyte Oxalis pes-caprae in coastal dunes, shrublands and oldfields in more than 200 sites across six Mediterranean Basin islands differing in climatic conditions and local species richness. Establishment success (i.e. percentage of plots with at least one seedling) and rates (i.e. seedling to sown seed ratio) were low, especially for Ailanthus even when accounting for differences in seed viability. Oxalis was capable of producing a new cohort of seedlings the year following planting. By contrast, all Ailanthus seedlings and half the Carpobrotus seedlings died following the first summer. Differences in establishment success and rates among ecosystems were species-, island- and year-dependent. Differences in precipitation and mean temperature were associated with differences in establishment rates across sites. Establishment rates tended to be positively correlated with cumulative precipitation and negatively with mean
3696886|The degree of influence of environment, location and geography on the distribution of closely-related Jekelius nitidus and Jekelius hernandezi, coleopteran species endemic to the Iberian Peninsula, was examined. Niche envelope model predictions of probable absence points were based on available presence information. Presence-absence information for each of the two species was logistic-regressed against climate, altitude, lithology, spatial and river basin variables from each of 100 km
4124753| We studied the geographical distribution and habitat suitability of an introduced ungulate, the aoudad (Ammotragus lervia), that is currently expanding its range in south-eastern Iberian Peninsula. We assessed the niche of the species using Ecological Niche Factor Analysis (ENFA) on (1) environmental variables (climate and habitat type), and (2) potential aoudad landscape avoidance and human disturbance variables. We compared both niche descriptions to study the impact of human interference on niche selection of the species. ENFA models were calibrated using data on the population expanded from the original release location, in Sierra Espuna mountains, and validated using data from another free-ranging population, originated independently in the Alicante province. The habitat suitability model for the purely environmental niche predicts a potential distribution along a SW-NE axis in the study area, following the Cordillera Sub-Btica mountain range, being constrained by low winter precipitation, high altitude, high terrain slope, and the presence of forest. In addition to these ecological traits, roads and landscape use restricted the environmental range potentially available for the species. Since the aoudad is a potential competitor of native ungulates and a threat to endemic flora, prospects for its potential dispersion might be of great conservation value. 
3246759|An emerging body of literature suggests that the richness of native and naturalized plant species are often positively correlated. It is unclear, however, whether this relationship is robust across spatial scales, and how a disturbance regime may affect it. Here, I examine the relationships of both richness and abundance between native and naturalized species of plants in two mediterranean scrub communities: coastal sage scrub (CSS) in California and xeric-sloped matorral (XSM) in Chile. In each vegetation type I surveyed multiple sites, where I identified vascular plant species and estimated their relative cover. Herbaceous species richness was higher in XSM, while cover of woody species was higher in CSS, where woody species have a strong impact upon herbaceous species. As there were few naturalized species with a woody growth form, the analyses performed here relate primarily to herbaceous species. Relationships between the herbaceous cover of native and naturalized species were not significant in CSS, but were nearly significant in XSM. The herbaceous species richness of native and naturalized plants were not significantly correlated on sites that had burned less than one year prior to sampling in CSS, and too few sites were available to examine this relationship in XSM. In post 1-year burn sites, however, herbaceous richness of native and naturalized species were positively correlated in both CSS and XSM. This relationship occurred at all spatial scales, from 400 m
3246735|We summarize information on naturalized and invasive conifers (class Pinopsida) worldwide (data from 40 countries, some with remote states/territories), and contrast these findings with patterns for other gymnosperms (classes Cycadopsida, Gnetopsida and Ginkgoopsida) and for woody angiosperms. Eighty conifer taxa (79 species and one hybrid; 13% of species) are known to be naturalized, and 36 species (6%) are 'invasive'. This categorization is based on objective and conservative criteria relating to consistency of reproduction, distance of spread from founders, and degree of reliance on propagules from the founder population for persistence in areas well outside the natural range of species. Twenty-eight of the known invasive conifers belong to one family (Pinaceae) and 21 of these are in one genus (Pinus). The Cupressaceae (including Taxodiaceae) has six known invasive species (4%) in four genera, but the other four conifer families have none. There are also no known invasive species in classes Cycadopsida, Gnetopsida or Ginkgoopsida. No angiosperm family comprising predominantly trees and shrubs has proportionally as many invasive species as the Pinaceae. Besides the marked taxonomic bias in favour of Pinaceae, and Pinus in particular, invasiveness in conifers is associated with a syndrome of life-history traits: small seed mass (< 50 mg), short juvenile period (< 10 year), and short intervals between large seed crops. Cryptomeria japonica, Larix decidua, Picea sitchensis, Pinus contorta, Pinus strobus and Pseudotsuga menziesii exemplify this syndrome. Many rare and endangered conifer species exhibit opposite characters. These results are consistent with earlier predictions made using a discriminant function derived from attributes of invasive and noninvasive Pinus species. Informative exceptions are species with small seeds (< 4 mg, e.g. Chamaecyparis spp., Pinus banksiana, Tsuga spp. - mostly limited to wet/mineral substrates) or otherwise 'non-invasive' characters (e.g. large seeds, fleshy fruits, e.g. Araucaria araucana, Pinus pinea, Taxus baccata that are dependent on vertebrates for seed dispersal). Most conifers do not require coevolved mutualists for pollination and seed dispersal. Also, many species can persist in small populations but have the genetic and reproductive capacity to colonize and increase population size rapidly. The underlying mechanisms mediating conifer invasions are thus easier to discern than is the case for most angiosperms. Further information is needed to determine the extent to which propagule pressure (widespread dissemination, abundant plantings, long history of cultivation) can compensate for low 'inherent invasiveness'.
4539912|While it is a truism that species rarity is non-randomly distributed across regions, habitats, and taxa, there is little consensus on which factors are the best predictors of low abundances and restricted geographical ranges. In this study, we evaluate the effects of ecological and life-history traits, as well as phylogeny, on rarity in the abundance and distribution of land birds inhabiting forest habitats in the Mediterranean and temperate regions of Chile. We use data on abundance collected at 16 sites and data on latitudinal distribution obtained from a literature compilation. Statistical analyses were based on multiple regression and multivariate models. We used Signed Mantel test to analyse the relationship between species ecological and life-history traits and rarity, taking into account the effect of phylogenetic relatedness. We found that rarity, in terms of distribution, is associated with a low investment in reproduction, non-migratory status, and degree of habitat specialization. These ecological and lifehistory traits, in association with forest loss due to climatic changes and human impacts, may explain the narrow distribution of most endemic forest birds species. Rarity in abundance, on the other hand, is more difficult to explain. However, the fact that large species with an insectivorous diet showed low density in the assemblages studied suggests that abundance is mostly regulated by energy (resource) requirements and availability. Finally, our study shows that there is no phylogenetic influence in the observed patterns.
40390770|Aim Lepidium latifolium (Brassicaceae; perennial pepperweed) is a noxious Eurasian weed invading riparian and wetland areas of the western USA. Understanding which sites are most susceptible to invasion by L. latifolium will allow more efficient management of this weed. We assessed the ability of advanced remote sensing techniques to develop habitat suitability models for L. latifolium. Location San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, California, USA. Methods Lepidium latifolium distribution was mapped with hyperspectral image data of Rush Ranch Open Space Preserve, providing presence/absence data to train and validate habitat models. A high-resolution light detection and ranging digital elevation model was used to derive predictor environmental variables (distance to channel, distance to upland, elevation, slope, aspect and convexity). Aggregate decision tree models were used to predict the potential distribution of this species. Results Lepidium latifolium infested two zones: near the marshland-upland margin and along channels within the marsh. Topographical data, which are typically strongly correlated with wetland species distributions, were relatively unimportant to L. latifolium occurrence, although relevant microtopography information, particularly relative elevation, was subsumed in the distance to channel variable. The map of potential L. latifolium distribution reveals that Rush Ranch contains considerable habitat that it is susceptible to continued invasion. Main conclusions Lepidium latifolium invades relatively less stressful sites along the inundation and salinity gradients. Advanced remote sensing datasets were shown to be sufficient for species distribution modelling. Remote sensing offers powerful tools that deserve wider use in ecological research and management.
2673404|A recently established population of Pterostichus melanarius Ill., a wing-dimorphic, introduced carabid beetle species, was studied over a 7-year period in Alberta, Canada. We monitored local colonization, and tested classical hypotheses about spatial and temporal changes in proportion of flight-wing morphs in the Carabidae. Between 1991 and 1997, a sizable population in a road verge (0.17 individuals/ trap/day in 1991) expanded only slowly into an adjacent aspen-poplar forest: the catch of 0.005 ind./trap/day in the forest in 1997 was not significantly higher than that of 0.001 ind./trap/day in 1991. However, a significantly higher proportion of P melanarius were macropterous, long-winged (LW) in the forest (80%) than in the road verge and at the forest edge (54%). This supports the hypothesis that newly established populations are characterized by a high proportion of LW individuals, and further indicates that dispersal from the road verge into the forest has taken place primarily through flight. The overall proportion of flightless, brachypterous individuals (SW) captured at the study site increased from 39% in 1991 and 1992 to 57% in 1997, supporting the hypothesis that the proportion of SW individuals will increase with time since establishment of a population. Captures of P melanarius in the forest were patchy and concentrated in particular areas throughout the study. However, these bridgehead' populations did not grow or expand obviously, suggesting that populations adapt to forest conditions or reach some threshold size before effective expansion.
3246723|The effects of Pleistocene glaciations on the genetic characteristics of the most austral conifer in the world, Pilgerodendron uviferum, were analysed with specific reference to the hypothesis that the species persisted locally in ice-free areas in temperate South America. It was expected that genetic variation would decrease with latitude, given that ice fields were larger in southern Patagonia and thus refugia were probably located towards the northern distributional limit of the species as suggested by the fossil record. In addition, an increase in among-population genetic divergence was expected with increasing distance to putative glacial refugia. We examined the relationship between location and within-population variability indices of 20 Pilgerodendron populations derived from isozyme analyses. We analysed possible refugia hypotheses by the distribution of allele frequencies using multivariate discriminant analysis. The degree of genetic differentiation with geographical distance between all population pairs was investigated by Mantel tests. Results indicated that Pilgerodendron populations are highly monomorphic, probably reflecting past population bottlenecks and reduced gene flow. Southernmost populations tend to be the least genetically variable and were therefore probably more affected by glacial activity than northern ones. Populations located outside ice limits seem to have been isolated during the glacial period. The presence of centres of genetic diversity, together with the lack of a significant correlation between genetic and geographical distances and the absence of geographical patterns of allelic frequencies at most analysed alleles, may indicate that Pilgerodendron did not advance southward after the last glaciation from a unique northern refugium, but spread from several surviving populations in ice-free areas in Patagonia instead.
20172056|Aim: To define priority sets of ecoregions that should be sufficiently covered in a reserve system to represent all Neotropical carnivores (Mammalia: Carnivora) under three distinct conservation scenarios. Location: The Neotropical region. Methods: We used broad-scale biogeographical data of species distribution to define priority sets of ecoregions for conservation of carnivores and mapped four species traits (phylogenetic diversity, body size, rarity and extinction risk), which were used as constraints in prioritization analyses, based on the complementarity concept. We proposed three scenarios: a very vulnerable one, one of species persistence and another of lower human impact. We used the simulated annealing algorithm to generate ecoregion-irreplaceability pattern and to find the combinations of ecoregions in each conservation scenario. Results: We found that only 8% of Neotropical ecoregions are needed to represent all 64 carnivore species at least once. Rain forest ecoregions harbour a greater amount of carnivore phylogenetic diversity, whereas the tropical Andes hold large-bodied carnivores. Western and southern Neotropical ecoregions have more rare species as well as higher threat levels. In the lower human-impact set, 12 ecoregions were needed to represent all species. These coincide only partially with those attained by other prioritization scenarios. In the very vulnerable and in the species persistence scenario, 14 and 12 ecoregions were represented, respectively, and the congruence between either one and the lower human-impact set was fairly low. Shared ecoregions are located in Mexico, Costa Rica, northern Amazon and western Chile. Main conclusions: Our results highlight areas of particular interest for the conservation of Neotropical carnivores. The inclusion of evolutionary and ecological traits in conservation assessments and planning helps to improve reserve networks and therefore to increase the effectiveness of proposed priority sets. We suggest that conservation action in the highlighted areas is likely to yield the best return of investments at the ecoregion scale.
41058135|Aim Understanding the environmental factors determining the establishment of invasive populations is a crucial issue in the study of biological invasions. By taking into account the uncertainty of predictions, ensembles of niche-based models can provide useful information. Therefore, we explored the use of consensus techniques to generate a quantitative description of the environmental conditions favouring the establishment of four problematic invasive decapods: Cherax destructor, Eriocheir sinensis, Pacifastacus leniusculus and Procambarus clarkii. Location Iberian Peninsula. Methods We collected both native and invasive distribution records from multiple sources. From these data, we modelled the potential distribution of the four decapod species using eight correlative models comprising regression, classification and machine learning methods. The relative influence of the environmental variables in single models was averaged to achieve a consensus contribution of the variables. Ecological requirements were investigated by means of consensus suitability curves, a spatial analysis procedure that shows the variation of consensus suitability along the gradients of environmental variables. Results The predictive accuracy of single models ranged from fair to very good. Still, the variability between predictions was high. Similarly, the influence of each variable in different models was also uneven. Consensus analysis identified the variables related to temperature as highly influential for all invaders. Consensus suitability curves show that C. destructor and Procambarus clarkii have reduced suitability in colder areas whereas the suitability for P. leniusculus is greatly reduced in warmer areas. The distance to the ocean was highly influential in E. sinensis models, with suitability showing an exponential decay as distance increased. Main conclusions We show that the information about the species-environment relationships obtained from niche-based models is highly dependent on the characteristics of the models used. In this context, we demonstrate that ensembles of models and consensus approaches can be used to identify such relationships while also allowing the assessment of the uncertainty of the achieved knowledge.
3246745|The invasion process can be divided into several phases. We consider invasion patterns related to two aspects of the invasion process: the spread of a species in Germany as counted by the number of occupied grid cells, and the degree of naturalization in Germany (i.e. whether a plant species is exclusively naturalized in human-made habitats or also in (semi-)natural habitats). Although in Germany the area of natural habitats is smaller than that of human-made habitats, the area of occupancy of the respective alien plant species is the opposite. We tested whether both patterns could be explained by niche-breadth variables, namely the number of inhabited habitat types, and vegetation formations, the range of human impact levels, the number of inhabited continents, the number of inhabited floristic zones (climatic zones), and the amplitude of oceanity. Tests were conducted across species and across phylogenetically-independent contrasts, using generalized linear models, in particular, hierarchical partitioning. The number of occupied grid cells could be explained by niche-breadth variables, especially by number of habitats, number of formations, and amplitude of oceanity. Contrary to our expectations, none of these variables could explain the degree of naturalization in cross-species analyses, and amplitude of oceanity is the only stably significant variable that explains the degree of naturalization when analysing phylogenetically-independent contrasts. We conclude that the degree of naturalization is probably independent from niche breadth, and that properties of a larger area of occupancy, i.e. sample size (or propagule pressure), could be responsible for this pattern.
4539947|The California Floristic Province is home to more than 8000 species of beetles, yet their geographical patterns of supra- and infraspecific diversity remain largely unexplored. In this paper, we investigate the phylogeography and population demographics of a flightless ground beetle, Calathus ruficollis (Coleoptera: Carabidae), in southern California. We sampled 136 specimens from 25 localities divided into 10 populations using a fragment of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene. We tested several hypotheses, including the association of geography with particular clades and populations, the degree of differentiation among regions, and the expansion of populations. Parsimony and Bayesian phylogenetic analyses along with nested clade analysis and AMOVA indicate a deep split between the southern Sierra Nevada population and populations south and west. This split corresponds closely to the split between subspecies C. ruficollis ignicollis (southern Sierra Nevada) and C. ruficollis ruficollis. Populations otherwise exhibit limited geographical structure, though Fst values indicate some local differentiation. Mismatch distributions and Fu's Fs indicate range expansion of several populations, suggesting that some structure may have been obscured by recent exchange. The population of C. ruficollis on Santa Cruz Island, which might have been expected to be isolated, shares several haplotypes with mainland populations, appearing to represent multiple colonizations.
20172052|Many invasive species cause ecological or economic damage, and the fraction of introduced species that become invasive is an important determinant of the overall costs caused by invaders. According to the widely quoted tens rule, about 10% of all introduced species establish themselves and about 10% of these established species become invasive. Global taxonomic differences in the fraction of species becoming invasive have not been described. In a global analysis of mammal and bird introductions, I show that both mammals and birds have a much higher invasion success than predicted by the tens rule, and that mammals have a significantly higher success than birds. Averaged across islands and continents, 79% of mammals and 50% of birds introduced have established themselves and 63% of mammals and 34% of birds established have become invasive. My analysis also does not support the hypothesis that islands are more susceptible to invaders than continents, as I did not find a significant relationship between invasion success and the size of the island or continent to which the species were introduced. The data set used in this study has a number of limitations, e.g. information on propagule pressure was not available at this global scale, so understanding the mechanisms behind the observed patterns has to be postponed to future studies.
4539967|Elephant management is highly controversial and any elephant-related study is quickly seen as a pro or con for one of the usual elephant management practices (laissez-faire, culling, contraception or metapopulation management). Managing water sources has also been suggested as one option, even though no experimental data exist. In a recent issue of Diversity and Distributions, Smit et al. (2007) rejected this management tool as an efficient method to control elephant distribution and dynamics in Kruger National Park, South Africa. However, we believe that (1) Smit et al.'s conclusion is poorly supported by the available data, and (2) that this non-intrusive management tool has the potential for being one of the few practices able to reconcile managers, scientists, and the public opinion in the never-ending 'elephant problem'. For these reasons, we believe that the strong conclusions of Smit et al. should be moderated.
41242789|Aim Our study aimed to determine priority areas for conservation investment with explicit consideration of the impacts of multiple threatening processes, and the dependencies that exist between actions required to abate these threats. Location Australia. Methods We analysed the return on investment for two different management actions aimed at reducing the impact of invasive species on the native fauna and flora of Australia. We focussed on the management of the European red fox (Vulpes vulpes) and European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) at two spatial scales: across 72 biogeographic regions of Australia and within one high-priority biogeographic region. We considered each action independently and also explicitly accounted for the option of an integrated fox and rabbit management action. We accounted for the spatial distributions of the threatened species within our analysis and determined how this refined spatial information influenced both the priority areas and the timing of this investment. Results Integrated fox and rabbit management was identified as a higher priority than singular threat abatement in most bioregions, whereas rabbit control alone was the most frequent priority if dependencies between actions were ignored. At the regional scale, funding was entirely directed to integrated action when seven or more species within the priority region were impacted by more than one threat. The total allocation of funding and timing of initial investment remained relatively insensitive to differences in the spatial overlap of species distributions. Main conclusions Our findings indicate that prioritizing conservation actions without explicit consideration of the impacts of multiple threats can reduce the cost-effectiveness of investments. The benefits expected from investment in abating one threat alone may be overestimated where other processes continue to threaten species persistence. We conclude that future attention should be directed to refining our understanding of the cost-efficiencies delivered through integrated actions and institutional mechanisms to achieve their delivery.
41242785|Aim We aim to report what hyperspectral remote sensing can offer for invasion ecologists and review recent progress made in plant invasion research using hyperspectral remote sensing. Location United States. Methods We review the utility of hyperspectral remote sensing for detecting, mapping and predicting the spatial spread of invasive species. We cover a range of topics including the trade-off between spatial and spectral resolutions and classification accuracy, the benefits of using time series to incorporate phenology in mapping species distribution, the potential of biochemical and physiological properties in hyperspectral spectral reflectance for tracking ecosystem changes caused by invasions, and the capacity of hyperspectral data as a valuable input for quantitative models developed for assessing the future spread of invasive species. Results Hyperspectral remote sensing holds great promise for invasion research. Spectral information provided by hyperspectral sensors can detect invaders at the species level across a range of community and ecosystem types. Furthermore, hyperspectral data can be used to assess habitat suitability and model the future spread of invasive species, thus providing timely information for invasion risk analysis. Main conclusions Our review suggests that hyperspectral remote sensing can effectively provide a baseline of invasive species distributions for future monitoring and control efforts. Furthermore, information on the spatial distribution of invasive species can help land managers to make long-term constructive conservation plans for protecting and maintaining natural ecosystems.
3696926|Published quantitative descriptions of local species assemblages represent a rich and little explored source of information exploring macroecological patterns. We used this source of data to estimate determinants of syrphid species richness in Central Europe. We examined the influence of three census-related covariates and five environmental variables on the observed or standardized (by rarefaction) species richness of 163 local syrphid assemblages. We also compared a large data set collected by a single author with a compilation of various sources. The covariates had mostly significant effects: increasing sample size and increasing sampling effort caused an asymptotic increase in species richness. The most effective collecting technique was entomological net, followed by malaise and colour traps. After taking into account the influence of covariates, the effects of geographical environmental variables (altitude, latitude and longitude) were more important than the effects of habitat variables. Syrphid richness exhibited a hump-shaped response to altitude and a latitudinal peak in the central areas of Central Europe. Our approach illustrates the potential of literature data for studying large-scale variation among local species assemblages.
4124775|Distributional similarity (congruence) between phylogenetically independent taxonomic groups has important biogeographical as well as conservation implications. When multiple groups show congruence, one or two of them can be used as surrogates of diversity in others; thus, simplifying some of the challenges of area prioritization for conservation action. Here we test for congruence in complementarity between amphibians, reptiles and birds across seven tropical rainforest sites in the Eastern Himalaya and Indo-Burma global biodiversity hotspots. The results show that while frogs and lizards are strongly congruent with each other, birds as a whole do not show congruence with either of them. However, certain bird subgroups delineated on the basis of broad ecological niche and life history attributes are significantly congruent with both frogs and lizards. Multiple Mantel regression between environmental variable and species distribution dissimilarity matrices indicate that along with differential response to between-site ecological differences, inherent life-history characteristics shared by certain groups contributes to observed patterns of congruence. Our analyses indicate that examining biologically distinct subsets of larger groups can improve the resolution of congruence analyses. This approach can refine area-prioritization initiatives by revealing fine-scale discordances between otherwise concordant groups, and vice versa. Given that monetary resources do not always allow inclusion of multiple groups in biodiversity inventorying efforts, performing such analyses also makes economic sense because it can provide better resolution even with single-group data. In the context of conservation in North-east India, the results highlight the biogeographical complexity of the region, and also point at future priorities for biodiversity inventorying and conservation prioritization, both in terms of areas as well as taxonomic groups.
4124777|Flood disturbance and water resource availability vary sharply over time and space along arid-region rivers and can interact in complex fashion to shape diversity patterns. Plant diversity showed spatial patterning along a topogradient from the floodplain of the San Pedro River (Arizona, USA) to the arid upland, but the patterns shifted temporally as the suite of limiting factors changed. During two of three sampling times, spatial diversity patterns were shaped primarily by gradients of water availability, the regional limiting factor. In the summer dry season, microscale diversity (species richness per 1 m
41242841|Aim To identify whether eradication or containment is expected to be the most cost-effective management goal for an isolated invasive population when knowledge about the current extent is uncertain. Location Global and South Africa. Methods We developed a decision analysis framework to analyse the best management goal for an invasive species population (eradication, containment or take no action) when knowledge about the current extent is uncertain. We used value of information analysis to identify when investment in learning about the extent will improve this decision-making and tested the sensitivity of the conclusions to different parameters (e.g. spread rate, maximum extent, and management efficacy and cost). The model was applied to Acacia paradoxa DC, an Australian shrub with an estimated invasive extent of 310 ha on Table Mountain, South Africa. Results Under the parameters used, attempting eradication is cost-effective for infestations of up to 777 ha. However, if the invasion extent is poorly known, then attempting eradication is only cost-effective for infestations estimated as 296 ha or smaller. The value of learning is greatest (maximum of 8% saving) when infestation extent is poorly known and if it is close to the maximum extent for which attempting eradication is optimal. The optimal management action is most sensitive to the probability that the action succeeds (which depends on the extent), with the discount rate and cost of management also important, but spread rate less so. Over a 20-year time-horizon, attempting to eradicate A. paradoxa from South Africa is predicted to cost on average ZAR 8 million if the extent is known, and if our current estimate is poor, ZAR 33.6 million as opposed to ZAR 32.8 million for attempting containment. Main conclusions Our framework evaluates the cost-effectiveness of attempting eradication or containment of an invasive population that takes uncertainty in population extent into account. We show that incorporating uncertainty in the analysis avoids overly optimistic beliefs about the effectiveness of management enabling better management decisions. For A. paradoxa in South Africa, attempting to eradicate is likely to be cost-effective, particularly if resources are allocated to better understand and improve management efficacy.
40800775|Aim Using six free-living deer species in Great Britain as a case study, we studied biogeographical relationships of ecologically related species composed of both native and introduced species. Location Great Britain. Methods We modelled the environmental favourability for the deer species using variables related with spatial location, climate, topography, human disturbances and habitat structure. Favourability values of each pair of native (naturalized)-introduced species were used to estimate the fuzzy overlap index (FOvI) as a measure of overall similarity between the environmental requirements for the species in Great Britain. The absolute local overlap values (FOvI-L) were also used to measure the degree to which a given location was favourable simultaneously for each pair of species. We assessed the trends of species favourability across a range defined by the absolute local overlap values and studied the shape of the obtained curves since they informs us about the favourability balance between the studied species. Results Muntjac and Chinese water deer attained higher favourability values than native species in localities with intermediate values of FOvI-L (a reduced number in the study area), suggesting that if competitive relationships were established in these localities the introduced deer species may have some advantages over natives. Sika deer only achieved higher values than fallow deer in those localities clearly unfavourable for the naturalized species. Our analyses predicted that fallow deer will be less affected by the introduced deer species than native species. Main conclusions We developed an approach based on the favourability function to describe biogeographical relationships between species, natives and introduced and to assess from a biogeographical perspective if introduced species could pose a competitive risk to natives. Although the results of present analyses do not conclusively demonstrate competitive exclusion, they provide directional hypotheses that can be tested in experimental field and laboratory studies.
3246812|Understanding historical distributions of species and evolving lineages has been a topic of considerable interest, yet methods used to date have not provided detailed, quantitative distributional hypotheses. Here, we present a technique based on models of species' ecological niches and Pleistocene climate reconstructions that provides such hypotheses, providing the example of reconstructions for the Aphelocoma jays. We demonstrate in general a greater degree than expected of stability in jay species' distributional areas back through at least the most recent glaciation event, and that existing patterns of genetic differentiation may date to before the Late Pleistocene glaciations. More generally, the method offers the potential for reconstructing historical distributions of species or lineages, and providing a detailed geographic framework for addressing many biogeographic and systematic questions.
3246712|The pattern of interspecific associations of three stem-galling sawfly species (Euura atra, E. elaeagnos, E. purpureae) and three stem-galling gallmidge species (Rabdophaga sp. 3-5) was investigated on five willow taxa (Salix alba, S. fragilis, S. x rubens, S. elaeagnos, S. purpurea) at five natural sites in Central Europe. The willow species harboured specific species associations of two stem gallers, each pair consisting of one Euura and one Rabdophaga species. The stem gallers were patchily distributed and their densities varied significantly among willow host plant species, host plant individuals, and host plant sexes. Four of the six species showed a significant increase in galling rate with shoot length. The other two species were the sawfly and cecidomyiid pair that induce galls on S. purpurea. The preference of stem gallers to longer shoots was generally not related to higher larval performance in terms of survival. Only one species, Rabdophaga sp. 5, was found to be more abundant on male plants. The correlation of densities of the species pairs of stem gallers was independent of willow sexes. Species pairs of stem gallers co-occurring on the same willow species tended to attack different shoots within the same host plant individual. When species pairs co-occurred on shoots they were usually found in similar densities as when occurring alone on shoots. The stem-galling sawflies usually formed galls at the basal part of a shoot, whereas the gallmidge R. sp. 5 (R. sp. 3 and R. sp. 4 showed no clear tendency) preferred the middle or distal part of a shoot. This is interpreted with differences of their phenology and oviposition period.
20172003|The species pool hypothesis claims that the large-scale regional species pool is the chief parameter in determining small-scale species richness through filtering of species that can persist within a community on the basis of their tolerance of the abiotic environment. Accordingly, different environmental conditions give rise to different species assemblages. From a taxonomic perspective, under the assumption of trait conservatism, co-occurring species that experience similar environmental conditions are likely to be more taxonomically similar than ecologically distant species. The next step consists in understanding how commonness and rarity of individual species produce the observed taxonomic diversity. In this paper, the importance of environmental filtering in regulating the taxonomic structure of rare and common plant species in the urban floras of Brussels (Belgium) and Rome (Italy) is tested. First, we computed the taxonomic diversity of the rare and common species of Brussels and Rome based on the branching topology of the Linnaean taxonomic trees. Next, using a randomization procedure, we determined whether the taxonomic diversity of the rare species was significantly higher than the diversity of the common species. Results show that, for both urban floras, common species that shape the community matrix and experience similar environmental conditions have a taxonomic diversity that is significantly lower than that of the rare species that represent a relatively incidental set of species of more 'disperse' origin. Finally, from a conservation/management perspective our results imply that, given their high taxonomic heterogeneity, the protection of rare species is a central issue for preserving high levels of diversity in urban areas.
2673309|In the Mediterranean region, plant communities are highly diverse with high total and local species richness, and a high spatial heterogeneity. They are also highly resilient to disturbance, which has been related to their evolutionary history of disturbance, and conceptually, although without formal proof, to their high ecological diversity. These ideas take on a new importance in the context of global change. In order to predict potential effects of future land use change, mechanisms underlying the resilience of ecosystems need to be understood. However, a review of the recent literature shows that confusion abounds as to the nature and measurement of resilience. In this paper we present a brief conceptual and methodological clarification and propose avenues for the analysis of mechanisms underlying the relationships between diversity and resilience, using Mediterranean ecosystems as an example. In Mediterranean ecosystems, rapid recovery from fire, soil disturbance and grazing has been attributed to two complementary causes. Firstly, disturbances often modify species relative abundances rather than composition, and recovery only involves the return to initial abundances. Secondly, life histories of dominant life forms in Mediterranean communities include efficient regeneration strategies that allow for recovery from dormant seeds or buds. In this paper, I use experimental results obtained in abandoned agricultural fields of southern France to investigate the mechanisms underlying the resilience of Mediterranean herbaceous communities to soil disturbance. These suggest that ecological diversity contributes to resilience in at least three ways. 1. Post-disturbance dynamics involve shifts in abundances of response groups to disturbance. 2. Within response groups, processes of lottery competition account for the dynamic maintenance of numerous species. 3. At the landscape scale, the fine grained distribution of communities at different successional stages allows for patch dynamics to operate with dispersal of species between patches. Further progress in the understanding of the relationships between ecological diversity and resilience of Mediterranean ecosystems can be achieved along two main avenues. Firstly, resilience of experimentally manipulated communities with differing levels of diversity needs to be assessed. Secondly, comparisons of those experiments across mediterranean-climate regions with different evolutionary disturbance histories need to be coordinated.
40390752|Aim Invasive alien species (IAS) pose a significant threat to biodiversity. The Convention on Biological Diversity's 2010 Biodiversity Target, and the associated indicator for IAS, has stimulated globally coordinated efforts to quantify patterns in the extent of biological invasion, its impact on biodiversity and policy responses. Here, we report on the outcome of indicators of alien irivasion at a global scale. Location Global. Methods We developed four indicators in a pressure-state-response framework, i. e. number of documented IAS (pressure), trends in the impact of IAS on biodiversity (state) and trends in international agreements and national policy adoption relevant to reducing IAS threats to biodiversity (response). These measures were considered best suited to providing globally representative, standardized and sustainable indicators by 2010. Results We show that the number of documented IAS is a significant underestimate, because its value is negatively affected by country development status and positively by research effort and information availability. The Red List Index demonstrates that IAS pressure is driving declines in species diversity, with the overall impact apparently increasing. The policy response trend has nonetheless been positive for the last several decades, although only half of countries that are signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) have IAS-relevant national legislation. Although IAS pressure has apparently driven the policy response, this has clearly not been sufficient and/or adequately implemented to reduce biodiversity impact. Main conclusions For this indicator of threat to biodiversity, the 2010 Biodiversity Target has thus not been achieved. The results nonetheless provide clear direction for bridging the current divide between information available on IAS and that needed for policy and management for the prevention and control of IAS. It further highlights the need for measures to ensure that policy is effectively implemented, such that it translates into reduced IAS pressure and impact on biodiversity beyond 2010.
2673372|A total of 246 marine bryozoan species was recorded within an area of the south-west Atlantic between 35<sup></sup> and 56<sup></sup>S, and between the coast of Argentina and 50<sup></sup>W. The distribution pattern of benthic stations surveyed during the most important cruises in the area shows that the sampling effort has been biased towards southern shelf areas off Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego, as well as around the Malvinas (Falkland) islands. The littoral zone, Patagonian gulfs and the continental shelf off Chubut, Rio Negro and Buenos Aires state received less attention, and should be surveyed more intensively in the future. Only 2% of the species can be regarded as non-indigenous, all of them inhabiting biofouling communities in harbour environments. With the exception of some thoroughly surveyed localities, the number of species recorded for different areas of the coast, shelf and slope is estimated to be just a small fraction of the actual number of species present. A distinct diversity gradient was found, with species-rich stations located only in the southern shelf. Highest diversity occurred in shelf areas dominated by coarse sediments, and along a high-productivity shelf-break front. A remarkable decrease in species richness was found in inner and middle shelf areas off Chubut, Rio Negro and Buenos Aires state. This pattern may be related to the Pacific origin of the Magellanic fauna, since the diversity of bryozoans is higher in the Pacific than in the Atlantic Ocean. The trend of species richness is, however, overemphasized by the fact that the least diverse faunistic assemblage occurs in areas where surveys have been relatively less frequent. An up-to-date checklist of species recorded for the study area is included.
41242795|Aim Urbanization is a leading threat to global biodiversity, yet little is known about how the spatial arrangement and composition of biophysical elements - buildings and vegetation - within a metropolitan area influence habitat selection. Here, we ask: what is the relative importance of the structure and composition of these elements on bird species across multiple spatial scales? Location The temperate metropolitan area of Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. Methods We surveyed breeding birds on 71 plots along an urban gradient. We modelled relative density for 48 bird species in relation to local woody vegetation composition and structure and to tree cover, grass cover and building density within 50-1000 m of each plot. We used an information-theoretic approach to compare models and variables. Results At the proximate scale, native tree and understory stem frequency were the most important vegetation variables explaining bird distributions. Species' responses to landscape biophysical features and spatial scales varied. Most native species responded positively to vegetation measures and negatively to building density. Models combining both local vegetation and landscape information represented best or competitive models for the majority of species, while models containing only local vegetation characteristics were rarely competitive. Smaller spatial scales ( 500 m) were most important for 36 species, and eight species had best models at larger scales (> 500 m); however, several species had competitive models across multiple scales. Main conclusions Habitat selection by birds within the urban matrix is the result of a combination of factors operating at both proximate and broader spatial scales. Efforts to manage and design urban areas to benefit native birds require both fine-scale (e.g., individual landowners and landscape design) and larger landscape actions (e.g., regional comprehensive planning).
40800790|Aim A species' dispersal characteristics will play a key role in determining its likely fate during a period of environmental change. However, these characteristics are not constant within a species -instead, there is often both considerable interpopulation and interindividual variability. Also changes in selection pressures can result in the evolution of dispersal characteristics, with knock-on consequences for a species' population dynamics. Our aim here is to make our theoretical understanding of dispersal evolution more conservationrelevant by moving beyond the rather abstract, phenomenological models that have dominated the literature towards a more mechanism-based approach. Methods We introduce a continuous-space, individual-based model for winddispersed plants where release height is determined by an individual's ' genotype'. A mechanistic wind dispersal model is used to simulate seed dispersal. Selection acts on variation in release height that is generated through mutation. Results We confirm that, when habitat is fragmented, both evolutionary rescue and evolutionary suicide remain possible outcomes when a mechanistic dispersal model is used. We also demonstrate the potential for what we term evolutionary entrapment. A population that under some conditions can evolve to be sufficiently dispersive that it expands rapidly across a fragmented landscape can, under different conditions, become trapped by a combination of limited dispersal and a large gap between patches. Conclusions While developing evolutionary models to be used as conservation tools is undoubtedly a challenge, we believe that, with a concerted collaborative effort linking the knowledge and methods of ecologists, evolutionary biologists and geneticists, it is an achievable aim.
40800787|Aim Understanding the processes that drive invasion success of alien species has received considerable attention in current ecological research. From an evolutionary point of view, many studies have shown that the phylogenetic similarity between the invader species and the members of the native community may be an important aspect of invasiveness. In this study, using a coarse-scale systematic sampling grid of 1 km , we explore whether the occupancy frequency of two groups of alien species, archaeophytes and neophytes, in the urban angiosperm flora of Brussels is influenced by their phylogenetic relatedness to native species. Location The city of Brussels (Belgium). Methods We used ordinary least-squares regressions and quantile regressions for analysing the relationship between the occupancy frequency of alien species in the sampled grid and their phylogenetic distance to the native species pool. Results Alien species with high occupancy frequency in the sampled grid are, on average, more phylogenetically related to native species than are less frequent aliens, although this relationship is significant only for archaeophytes. In addition, as shown by the quantile regressions, the relationship between phylogenetic relatedness to the native flora and occupancy frequency is much stronger for the most frequent aliens than for rare aliens. Main conclusions Our data suggest that it is unlikely that species with very low phylogenetic relatedness to natives will become successful invaders with very high distribution in the area studied. To the contrary, under future climate warming scenarios, present-day urban aliens of high occupancy frequency are likely to become successful invaders even outside urban areas.
20532095|Aim: Assessing the relative vulnerability of species within an assemblage to extinction is crucial for conservation planning at the regional scale. Here, we quantify relative vulnerability to extinction, in terms of both resistance and resilience to environmental change, in an assemblage of tropical rainforest vertebrates. Location: Wet Tropics Bioregion, north Queensland, Australia. Methods: We collated data on 163 vertebrates that occur in the Australian Wet Tropics, including 24 frogs, 33 reptiles, 19 mammals and 87 birds. We used the 'seven forms of rarity' model to assess relative vulnerability or resistance to environmental change. We then develop a new analogous eight-celled model to assess relative resilience, or potential to recover from environmental perturbation, based on reproductive output, potential for dispersal and climatic niche marginality. Results: In the rarity model, our assemblage had more species very vulnerable and very resistant than expected by chance. There was a more even distribution of species over the categories in the resilience model. The three traits included in each model were not independent of each other; species that were widespread were also habitat generalists, while species with narrow geographical ranges tended to be locally abundant. In the resilience model, species with low reproductive output had a narrow climatic niche and also a low capacity to disperse. Frogs were the most vulnerable taxonomic group overall. The model categories were compared to current IUCN category of listed species, and the product of the two models was best correlated with IUCN listings. Main conclusions: The models presented here offer an objective way to predict the resistance of a species to environmental change, and its capacity to recover from disturbance. The new resilience model has similar advantages to the rarity model, in that it uses simple information and is therefore useful for examining patterns in assemblages with many poorly known species.
40930621|Aim Urbanization usually leads to biotic homogenization with a decrease in native species and increase in exotic species. We investigated whether local environmental factors in urban water bodies, such as water quality, habitat structure and biotic interactions, influenced the invasion of these systems by exotic macroinvertebrate species. Location Urban surface water systems in lowlands of the Rhine-Meuse delta. Methods Presence and abundance of native and exotic macroinvertebrate species were compared between different urban water types and related to environmental variables with multivariate analysis and spearman's correlations. Moreover, co-existence of related native and exotic species was studied. Results In total nine exotic species were found in the following taxa: Tricladida (1), Crustacea (5), Bivalvia (1) and Gastropoda (2). Taxonomically related native and exotic crustacean species did not seem to be influenced by competition in nutrient-rich urban waters; most species showed high abundances. Nevertheless, two exotic crustacean species were much more abundant in waters where other crustacean species were absent, possibly filling empty niches. Native species richness and abundance was positively related to environmental heterogeneity in the form of submerged vegetation. The occurrence and abundance of most exotic species were positively related to several eutrophication indicators, such as nitrate, sludge layer and lemnid vegetation. Main conclusions Exotic species in urban waters were mostly detritivorous or omnivorous and therefore dependent on leaf breakdown. In nutrient-rich water systems, where food availability was high, exotic crustacean species co-existed with native crustacean species, while in nutrient-poor, richly vegetated systems, native Asellidae dominated exotic Asellidae. In the turbid water bodies with very little vegetation, native species richness was low and two exotic crustacean species were relatively abundant in these water systems. Invasibility of urban water systems could be reduced by stimulating the development of submerged and nymphaeid vegetation and decreasing nutrient levels.
40390712|Aim The introduction of non-indigenous species has resulted in wide-ranging ecological and economic impacts. Predictive modelling of the introduction and establishment of non-indigenous species is imperative to identify areas at high risk of invasion to effectively manage non-indigenous species and conserve native populations. Smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu), a warm water fish species native to central North America has negatively impacted native fish communities, including cyprinids and salmonid populations, as a result of intentional introductions. We predicted the introduction risk; species establishment based on habitat suitability, identified lakes at high risk of invasion; and finally assessed the consequential impacts on native salmon, trout and cyprinid populations. Location Ontario and British Columbia, Canada. Methods Classification tree and logistic regression models were developed and validated to predict the introduction and establishment of smallmouth bass for thousands of lakes. Results Densely human populated areas and larger lake surface areas successfully identify lakes associated with the introduction of smallmouth bass (introduction model) in British Columbia. Climate, lake morphology and water chemistry variables were the driving environmental parameters to define suitable smallmouth bass habitat (establishment model). A combination of the introduction and establishment model identified 138 lakes that are currently at risk in British Columbia to the introduction and establishment of smallmouth bass. Of these 138 high-risk lakes, 95% of them contain at least one species of salmon, trout or cyprinid, thereby increasing the potential impact of an invasion by smallmouth bass. Main conclusions Our framework can be applied to other terrestrial and aquatic species to obtain a better understanding of the potential risk posed by a nonindigenous species to an ecosystem. Furthermore, our methodology can be used to focus management efforts on areas at higher risk (e.g. number of potential releases, more favourable habitats) to control future introductions of nonindigenous species, thereby conserving native populations.
41242836|Aims To highlight the increasing importance of pests and pathogens to Australian Acacia species, where they are planted as non-natives in commercial plantations and in their native environment. Location Africa, Asia, Australia, South America. Methods Existing literature and results of unpublished surveys on pests and pathogens of Australian acacias are reviewed. These are discussed within the context of a growing importance of invasive alien insects and pathogens including novel encounters and host jumps. Results Australian acacias planted as non-natives in various parts of the world are increasingly threatened by pests and pathogens. These include those that are accidentally being introduced into the new environments as well as 'new encounter' pests and pathogens that are undergoing host shifts to infect non-native acacias. Furthermore, insects and pathogens for biological control of invasive Australian acacias present substantial challenges for plantation forestry. Main conclusions Pests and pathogens will seriously challenge plantation forestry based on non-native Australian acacias. In the longer term, new encounter pests and pathogens will also threaten these trees in their native environments.
41058142|Aim Some nations, and the International Maritime Organization, are moving towards requirements for managing ballast water to reduce the number of alien species transported and released. These and other measures will be most efficient when targeted at ships posing the greatest risks. Here, we analyse world-wide ship movements and port environmental conditions to explore how these risk components differ across arriving ships. Location Global, with a case study of the Laurentian Great Lakes. Methods We gathered salinity and temperature data for all global shipping ports, and data for all global ship movements during a 12 -month period. We applied these data to the Laurentian Great Lakes to determine which global ports may donate new species to the Great Lakes via ship traffic, and which are most environmentally similar to the Great Lakes. Results We show that ships regularly travel to the Great Lakes from all major coastal, and many inland, regions of the world. Most global ports, and thus the species in them, are separated from the Great Lakes by no more than two ship voyages. Combined with a measure of environmental similarity among global ports, we identify ship routes likely to transport species adapted for survival in the Great Lakes and global regions that may be the source of increasing future invasions. Main conclusions The Great Lakes account for a small fraction of global shipping yet are closely connected to all other ports, and the species in them, by the shipping network. Our methods and data allow risks from individual ships to be ranked so that management activities can be targeted at ships most likely to introduce new invaders. Because our data sets are global, they could be applied to ship arrivals at any global port.
40800804|Aim The greatest biodiversity impact of non-native plant species is caused by rapid expansion of colonist populations. Unfortunately, invasion has rarely been documented in real time at a population scale, and demographic mechanisms of invasion remain unclear. Our goal is to describe real-time expansion of populations, using channelled diffusion as a null model. Location The study examined three populations of the invasive annual grass Microstegium vimineum in mature second-growth forests of south-eastern Ohio and nearby West Virginia, USA. Methods Distributions were recorded in belt transects perpendicular to population edges over a period of 3 years. A second group of belt transects documented spread along five types of potential movement corridor. Observed changes in distribution were compared with predictions from a diffusion model. A seed-sowing experiment tested seed availability, microsite quality and proximity to potential movement corridors as factors controlling population spread. Results Population boundaries showed little change over the study period. Colonization was limited by propagule availability over distances as little as 0.25 m, and to a lesser extent by litter cover. Populations did not advance along several potential movement corridors including unpaved roads, off-road vehicle trails and footpaths. Advance was observed along deer trails and stream courses but did not conform to the wave-form distribution predicted by diffusion theory. During the study, seeds were moved out of experimental plots by sheet flow and minor flooding events along small streams. Main conclusion At a population level, invasion is driven by processes that are episodic in time and non-random in space -probably a common condition in non-native plant species. Spatially realistic models are likely to be more useful than diffusive models in managing invasions at these scales.
20172029|Feeding on farmland by overwintering populations of pink-footed geese (Anser brachyrhynchus) conflicts with agricultural interests in Northern Europe. In order to forecast the potential future of this conflict, we used generalized linear models to relate the presence and absence of pink-footed geese to variables describing the contemporary landscape, and predicted their future distributions in relation to two land-use scenarios for the year 2050. One future scenario represented a global, economically orientated world (A1) and the other represented a regional, environmentally concerned world (B2). The probability of goose occurrence increased within cropland and grassland, and could be explained by their proximity to coast, elevation, and the degree of habitat closure. Predictions to future scenarios revealed noticeable shifts in the suitability of goose habitat evident at the local and regional scale in response to future shifts in land use. In particular, as grasslands and croplands give way to unsuitable land-use types (e.g. woody biofuel crops, increased urbanization, and forest) under both future scenarios, our models predicted a decrease in habitat suitability for geese. If coupled with continued goose population expansion, we expect that the agricultural conflict will intensify under the A1 and particularly the B2 scenarios.
4124781|Estimates of global insect species richness are sometimes based on effective specialization, a calculation used to estimate the number of insect species that is restricted to a particular tree species. Yet it is not clear how effective specialization is influenced by spatial scale or characteristics of the insect community itself (e.g. species richness). We investigated scale dependence and community predictors of effective specialization using 15,907 beetles (583 species) collected by insecticide fogging from the crowns of 96 trees (including 32 Quercus trees) located in Ohio and Indiana. Trees were distributed across 24 forest stands (~1 ha) nested within six sites (
20171997|Successful conservation plans are not solely achieved by acquiring optimally designed reserves. Ongoing monitoring and management of the biodiversity in those reserves is an equally important, but often neglected or poorly executed, part of the conservation process. In this paper we address one of the first and most important steps in designing a monitoring program -- deciding what to monitor. We present a strategy for prioritizing species for monitoring and management in multispecies conservation plans. We use existing assessments of threatened status, and the degree and spatial and temporal extent of known threats to link the prioritization of species to the overarching goals and objectives of the conservation plan. We consider both broad and localized spatial scales to capture the regional conservation context and the practicalities of local management and monitoring constraints. Spatial scales that are commensurate with available data are selected. We demonstrate the utility of this strategy through application to a set of 85 plants and animals in an established multispecies conservation plan in San Diego County, California, USA. We use the prioritization to identify the most prominent risk factors and the habitats associated with the most threats to species. The protocol highlighted priorities that had not previously been identified and were not necessarily intuitive without systematic application of the criteria; many high-priority species have received no monitoring attention to date, and lower-priority species have. We recommend that in the absence of clear focal species, monitoring threats in highly impacted habitats may be a way to circumvent the need to monitor all the targeted species.
3246829|Three related species of oak gall wasps, Andricus corruptrix (Schlechtendal), A. kollari (Hartig) and A. lignicola (Hartig) have entered Britain since the introduction of Turkey oak, Quercus cerris L. in 1735. Their lifecycles involve alternating generations between an agamic generation on the native oak species (Q. petraea, Q. robur and their hybrid Q. x. rosacea), and a smaller, sexual generation on the alien Q. cerris. In examining the distributions of these insects and Q. cerris, we hypothesized that: (1) the invasion will spread more rapidly in places where both host trees are equally abundant than through regions where one of the tree species is substantially less common than the other; (2) interspecific competition between these bud-galling species will lead to a negative correlation between their abundances at a particular site; (3) differential recruitment of natural enemies from the native hymenopteran fauna will slow the rate of spread in a species-specific manner. A. kollari arrived nearly 200 years ago and is now found throughout the British Isles, wherever Turkey oak is grown. A. lignicola and A. corruptrix have been here for 30 years, after establishing in S.E. England. A. lignicola is in its final rapid stages of range expansion across England, southern Scotland and N.E. Scotland. A. corruptrix is just beginning to spread through Central and S.W. England. It has occupied proportionally fewer sites behind its invasion front than have the other two species, but is no less abundant at these sites. Nevertheless, distance leaps of up to 50 km were identified in A. lignicola in N.E. Scotland, and the possibility of long-distance transport of infected trees through the horticulture and forestry trades remains. The co-occurrence of mature individuals of both host Quercus species does appear to have increased their rates of colonization in A. lignicola and A. corruptrix. There is no evidence, however, to suggest that interspecific competition between the three alien gall formers is an important factor in determining their distributions and abundance within their invaded ranges. All three species have recruited parasitoids and inquilines rapidly from the native fauna; attack rates were highly variable, but showed no evidence of density dependence across sites.
3696854|We investigated the effects of the abiotic environment, plant community composition and disturbance by fire on ant assemblages in two distinct habitat types in the Siskiyou Mountains in northern California and southern Oregon, USA. Sampling over 2 years in burned and unburned Darlingtonia fens and their adjacent upland forests, we found that the effects of disturbance by fire depended on habitat type. In forests, fire intensity predicted richness in ant assemblages in both years after the fire, and plant community composition predicted richness 2 years after the fire. No factors were associated with richness in the species-poor fen ant assemblages. Species-specific responses to both habitat type and disturbance by fire were idiosyncratic. Assemblage composition depended on habitat type, but not disturbance by fire, and the composition of each assemblage between years was more dissimilar in burned than unburned sites.
2673289|The prevalence and distribution of sponges was surveyed on vertical cliff surfaces at Lough Hyne Marine Nature Reserve, Co. Cork, Ireland. The number of sponge species was recorded at 6-metre depth intervals at four sites within Lough Hyne, and at one site on the adjacent Atlantic coastline to examine differences in abundance and zonation patterns. Sites ranged from an exposed turbulent regime to sheltered, sedimented environments. Individual species showed different distributions and prevalence between sites and with increasing depth. Greatest differences were observed between the most- and least-disturbed sites. Distinct sponge zonation patterns were evident at all sites sampled. Twenty-five species were considered dominant at all five sites with the remaining 48 species considered rare. Only four of the 25 most-dominant species occurred at the site experiencing the most turbulent flow conditions, whereas 12 species were found at the site of unidirectional fast flow. At sites of moderate to slight water movement and high sedimentation, between 18 and 24 of the most dominant species were present. Encrusting forms constituted high proportions of sponge communities at all five sites sampled (although consisting of different species). At sites of turbulent and unidirectional fast flow massive forms also dominated whereas at the least turbulent sites, where sedimentation was high, arborescent sponges were abundant. Few species showed exclusive distribution to a single depth and site, but there was some degree of correlation between species distributions and abiotic factors such as sedimentation rate and flow regimes. Sponge distributions and densities are discussed with respect to the suitability of species' morphologies to particular environments, intra-specific and inter-specific competition and physiological adaptations that enable them to survive in different habitats.
20171966|We genetically analysed cordgrass plants and seedlings throughout the San Francisco, California, USA, estuary and found that hybrids between exotic Spartina alterniflora and native Spartina foliosa are the principal cordgrass invaders and colonizers. We hypothesized that this was due to higher seed set and siring ability by hybrids relative to the native species; too few alien parents remained in San Francisco Bay for our comparative studies. Hybrid seed comprised 91% to 98% of that set in the marsh study plants over the 2 years of the study. Total viable pollen production by hybrid plants was 400 times that of the native plants. Seed and pollen production were highly skewed towards a few hybrid genotypes. In addition to seed produced by hybrid plants, hybrid seed was produced by S. foliosa due to hybrid backcrossing. While the greatest advantage for hybrids was in pollen and seed production, hybrid seeds germinated, and seedlings survived and grew as well or better than the native species. As native S. foliosa becomes increasingly rare, hybrid seed floating on the tides will predominate, overwhelming recruitment sites and resulting in further colonization by hybrids. In an evolutionary context, hybrids with exceptional pollen and seed production will be initially favoured by natural selection, leading to the evolution of even more fertile hybrid genotypes.
3696825|The Cape flora of southern Africa is a remarkable hotspot for plant species diversity and endemism. At a meeting in Zurich in 2004 progress in understanding the evolution of this diversity was reviewed. In this symposium, four papers presenting several of the methods used in this investigation were reported. These papers deal with molecular dating methods, the reconstruction of ancestral habitats, with possible speciation scenarios for the Cape flora, and the importance of the correct sampling strategies.
3246852|The flora of 96 rubbish dumps consisting of organic, inorganic and industrial wastes was studied in the Czech Republic. Some dumps contained toxic substances (heavy metals, chlorethylenes, phenols, polychlorinated biphenyls, oil hydrocarbons and biogas). Statistically significant factors explaining the number and proportional representation of native plant species, archaeophytes (introduced before 1500) and neophytes (introduced later) were determined. In total, 588 species of vascular plants were recorded, with archaeophytes (133 species) over-represented and native species (322 species) and neophytes (133 species) under-represented compared to their proportions in the national flora. Minimum adequate models were used to determine the effects of several factors on species numbers and proportions, independent of other factors. Dump area, human density in the region and altitude (non-significant only in archaeophytes) were correlated positively with species numbers. Dump age, expressed as time since dump establishment, interacted with the dump toxicity; species numbers increased with dump age on non-toxic dumps, whereas on toxic dumps no increase in numbers was noted. For neophytes, dump toxicity also interacted with human density; the increase in numbers of neophytes with human density is more pronounced on toxic than on non-toxic dumps. The variables measured failed to explain observed differences in proportional representation of native species, archaeophytes and neophytes. This suggests that the occurrence of species growing in such extreme habitats is driven overwhelmingly by factors such as anthropogenic disturbance. A possible explanation for the positive effect of altitude on species numbers on dumps is that the effect of heating of the deposited substrate by microbiological processes, documented by previous studies, overrides the effect of altitude which was shown repeatedly to have a negative effect on species richness. Neophyte distribution is driven by an interplay of factors distinct from those influencing the distribution of native species, namely toxicity and human density (the latter we interpret as a surrogate for propagule pressure). Their distribution on studied dumps is more restricted than that of native taxa and archaeophytes, and they are more limited by toxic substrata; more intensive propagule pressure is required for their establishment at dumps with higher toxicity levels.
20171990|The paper examines the role of feral sheep (Ovis aries) in facilitating the naturalization of alien plants and degrading a formerly robust and stable ecosystem of Socorro, an isolated oceanic island in the Mexican Pacific Ocean. Approximately half of the island is still sheep-free. The other half has been widely overgrazed and transformed into savannah and prairie-like open habitats that exhibit sheet and gully erosion and are covered by a mix of native and alien invasive vegetation today. Vegetation transects in this moderately sheep-impacted sector show that a significant number of native and endemic herb and shrub species exhibit sympatric distribution patterns with introduced plants. Only one alien plant species has been recorded from any undisturbed and sheep-free island sector so far. Socorro Island provides support for the hypothesis that disturbance of a pristine ecosystem is generally required for the colonization and naturalization of alien plants. Sheep are also indirectly responsible for the self-invasion of mainland bird species into novel island habitats and for the decline and range contraction of several endemic bird species.
2999789|We examine the effect of selective timber extraction, and corresponding forest canopy loss, on arboreal dung beetles in the tropical rainforests of Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. Changes in vertical distribution of beetles are measured through differences in the abundance of beetles in ground-based pitfall traps in primary, logged and plantation forest. Previous research has demonstrated that arboreal dung beetles are not generally collected in pitfall traps in primary forest, but are present in large numbers above the ground in canopy vegetation: the presence of arboreal beetles in pitfalls in areas of reduced or modified canopy cover may therefore reflect a response to the absence or modification of their usual habitat, and the proliferation of these beetles nearer to the ground. In this paper, statistically significant differences are found in the abundance of beetles in ground pitfall traps from logged forest compared to primary forest. Results show that virtually no arboreal dung beetles are recorded in primary forest traps, with an increased abundance of arboreal dung beetles in traps from logged and plantation forest, with 1 72% of the total number of arboreal beetles recorded from primary forest, 22 32% from logged forest, and 75 96% from plantation forest. The presence of arboreal dung beetles in plantations demonstrates that arboreal dung beetles can survive outside their normal habitat, and we relate these observations to adaptations to upper rainforest canopy conditions, and proliferation of these microclimatic conditions in man-made habitats. Results are also discussed in terms of their relevance to the measurement of species richness and diversity in logged and other derived ecosystems, where mixing of the ground-based and arboreal faunas occurs.
41242858|Aim Global sea-level rise (SLR) could be as much as 1.8 metres by 2100, which will impact coastal wetland communities and threatened species. We evaluated the likely outcomes of SLR for wetland communities using a process-based simulation model and coupled this with a metapopulation model for a threatened native rodent (Xeromys myoides). Furthermore, we tested the amplified impacts of SLR, urban growth and introduced predators on X. myoides persistence. Location South-east Queensland, Australia. Methods We adapted the Sea Level Affects Marshes Model to subtropical Australia. We used LiDAR elevation data, field data to parameterize surface accretion and shallow subsidence, and local knowledge to configure wetland transitions. SLR was simulated based on the IPCC B1 and A1FI scenarios, as well as the maximal limit of 1.8 m by 2100. Further, we coupled our demographic model to projected shifts in wetland habitat, and estimates of future wetland loss to urban expansion and feral cat (Felis catus) predation. Results Our models project a general decline in wetland communities under SLR, with a noted exception of mangroves. Under the A1FI scenario, SLR allows mangroves to migrate inland, with urban development acting as an obstruction in some areas. Mangrove expansion provides an unexpected benefit for dependent X. myoides populations, although the inclusion of predation and habitat loss due to urban development still suggests extirpation in c. 50 years. Main conclusions Through this case study, we illustrate the usefulness of process-based SLR models in understanding outcomes for wetland communities and dependent species. Our models will underscore decision-making in a dynamic system, with global applications for urban planning, conservation prioritization and wildlife management.
3246802|Reports of malformed amphibians and global amphibian declines have led to public concern, particularly because amphibians are thought to be indicator species of overall environmental health. The topic also draws scientific attention because there is no obvious, simple answer to the question of what is causing amphibian declines? Complex interactions of several anthropogenic factors are probably at work, and understanding amphibian declines may thus serve as a model for understanding species declines in general. While we have fewer answers than we would like, there are six leading hypotheses that we sort into two classes. For class I hypotheses, alien species, over-exploitation and land use change, we have a good understanding of the ecological mechanisms underlying declines; these causes have affected amphibian populations negatively for more than a century. However, the question remains as to whether the magnitude of these negative effects increased in the 1980s, as scientists began to notice a global decline of amphibians. Further, remedies for these problems are not simple. For class II hypotheses, global change (including UV radiation and global climate change), contaminants and emerging infectious diseases we have a poor, but improving understanding of how each might cause declines. Class II factors involve complex and subtle mechanistic underpinnings, with probable interactions among multiple ecological and evolutionary variables. They may also interact with class I hypotheses. Suspected mechanisms associated with class II hypotheses are relatively recent, dating from at least the middle of the 20th century. Did these causes act independently or in concert with preexisting negative forces of class I hypotheses to increase the rate of amphibian declines to a level that drew global attention? We need more studies that connect the suspected mechanisms underlying both classes of hypotheses with quantitative changes in amphibian population sizes and species numbers. An important step forward in this task is clarifying the hypotheses and conditions under which the various causes operate alone or together.
3246864|A list of 618 species of alien flowering plants recorded for Mexico is presented; they are distributed in 355 genera and 87 families. The families with the largest number of species are Poaceae (171), Fabaceae sensu lato (57), Asteraceae (56), and Brassicaceae (45). The representation of most families with alien species in Mexico agrees with the average distribution frequencies estimated by Pysek (1998) for 26 floras throughout the World. Exceptions are an under-representation of Asteraceae and an over-representation of Poaceae. Most alien species (78.9%) in Mexico have their origin in the Old World; South America ranks second with 9.6%. As defined by Richardson et al. (2000), 19.8% of the alien species could be considered casual aliens and 80.2% of them naturalized. The proportion of alien species relative to the 22,968 native flowering plant species recorded for Mexico is 2.7%.
20172058|Aim: To evaluate changes in the abundance, species richness and community composition of rove beetles (Coleoptera, Staphylinidae) in response to three configurations of experimental gap cuts and to the effects of ground scarification in early succession yellow birch-dominated boreal forest. In each experimental treatment, total forest removed was held constant (35% removal by partial cutting with a concomitant decrease in gap size) but the total number of gaps was increased (two, four and eight gaps, respectively), resulting in an experimental increase in the total amoung of 'edge' within each stand. Location: Early succession yellow birch-dominated forests, Quebec, Canada. Methods: Pitfall traps, ANOVA, MIXED procedure in SAS, post hoc Tukey's adjustment, rarefaction estimates, sum-of-squares and distance-based multivariate regression trees (ssMRT, dbMRT). Results: Estimates of species richness using rarefaction were highest in clearcut and two-gap treatments, decreased in smaller and more numerous gaps and were significantly higher in scarified areas than in unscarified areas. ANOVA indicated a significant impact of harvesting on the overall standardized catch. Post hoc Tukey's tests indicated that the total catch of all rove beetles was significantly higher in uncut forests than in the treated areas. Both sum-of-squares and distance-based multivariate regression trees indicated that community structure of rove beetles differed among treatments. Assemblages were grouped into (a) control plots, (b) four- and eight-gap treatments and (c) two-gap and clearcut treatments. Main conclusions: Rove beetle composition responded significantly to increasing gap size. Composition among intermediate and small-sized gap treatments (four- and eight-gap treatments) was more similar to uncut control forests than were larger gap treatments (two-gap) and clearcuts. Effects of scarification were nested within the harvested treatments. When the total area of forest removed is held constant, smaller, more numerous gaps are more similar to uncut control stands than to larger gaps and falls more closely within the natural forest heterogeneity.
40390765|Aim To evaluate a suite of species distribution models for their utility as predictors of suitable habitat and as tools for new population discovery of six rare plant species that have both narrow geographical ranges and specialized habitat requirements. Location The Rattlesnake Creek Terrane (RCT) of the Shasta-Trinity National Forest in the northern California Coast Range of the United States. Methods We used occurrence records from 25 years of US Forest Service botanical surveys, environmental and remotely sensed climate data to model the distributions of the target species across the RCT. The models included generalized linear models (GLM), artificial neural networks (ANN), random forests (RF) and maximum entropy (ME). From the results we generated predictive maps that were used to identify areas of high probability occurrence. We made field visits to the top-ranked sites to search for new populations of the target species. Results Random forests gave the best results according to area under the curve and Kappa statistics, although ME was in close agreement. While GLM and ANN also gave good results, they were less restrictive and more varied than RF and ME. Cross-model correlations were the highest for species with the most records and declined with record numbers. Model assessment using a separate dataset confirmed that RF provided the best predictions of appropriate habitat. Use of RF output to prioritize search areas resulted in the discovery of 16 new populations of the target species. Main conclusions Species distribution models, such as RF and ME, which use presence data and information about the background matrix where species do not occur, may be an effective tool for new population discovery of rare plant species, but there does appear to be a lower threshold in the number of occurrences required to build a good model.
3246761|This paper demonstrates the use of a bioclimatic model mapped over geographical regions as a tool for spatially refined risk assessment for the establishment of non-indigenous plants with invasive behaviour. Drawing on the relationship between plant distribution and climate, the approach uses gridded spatial interpolated monthly means of temperature and precipitation linked with accurate maps of general native distribution ranges to predict the long-term potential of a plant species to invade a certain region. The ascertained potential for establishment is illustrated by the example of garlic mustard (Alliaria petiolata [M. Bieb.] Cavara & Grande) in North America. The first step is to calculate and visualize the number of populated grid cells along climatic gradients in frequency diagrams for the general native distribution range. Interpretations of the response curves recorded are used for assessing apparent climatic range boundaries. Modelling was gradually optimized based on the results of experience-based interpretations and by examining omission and over-representation errors. The obtained climatic model of the range of A. petiolata shows considerable congruencies with its mapped, native Eurasian range. Degrees of climatic similarity between North America and the native range of A. petiolata were calculated with the help of GIS methodology and were used to assess the regionally different likelihood of establishment in North America of the invasive species under consideration.
41242852|Aim The increasing number and availability of online databases of alien species beg a question of their comparability given most do not adopt standard criteria in the definition of species status or taxonomic treatment and vary in their comprehensiveness. In this study, we compare the consistency of two major European databases for the regions they have in common. We assess whether they use consistent terminology to classify species status, provide similar taxonomic classification and coverage, deliver comparable estimates of alien richness per country and identify comparable correlates of alien richness. Location Northern Europe. Methods Data on the total number of alien species as well as the number of established alien species were extracted from the online databases DAISIE and NOBANIS for 13 European countries and classified into comparable taxonomic groups. Analyses across countries examined trends in alien species richness, correlations among taxonomic groups and the explanatory power of population density, country area and per capita GDP on alien species richness. Results Alien species richness, intertaxon correlations and the significance of individual drivers of invasion were all strongly database dependent. Differences were more marked for total numbers of aliens than established aliens. Over all taxonomic groups, DAISIE had lower species richness and fewer significant intertaxon correlations but presented a greater number of significant explanatory models of alien species richness. Trends in species richness were not generally correlated between the two databases with human population density being a more important driver in DAISIE while country area had greater explanatory power in NOBANIS. Main conclusions Considerable caution should be applied when collating data from different databases because often their underlying structure and content may differ markedly. For Europe, the analysis indicates that having two contrasting databases is not an ideal basis for implementing invasive species policy and moves should be made soon to establish a central pan-European database.
3696911|We compiled three independent data sets of bird species occurrences in northeastern Colorado to test how predicted species richness compared to a combined analysis using all the data. The first data set was a georeferenced regional museum data set from two major repositories-the Denver Museum of Nature, and the Science and University of Colorado Museum. The two national survey data sets were the Breeding Bird Survey (summer), and the Great Backyard Bird Count (winter). Resulting analyses show that the museum data sets give richness estimates closest to the combined data set while exhibiting a skewed abundance distribution, whereas survey data sets do not accurately estimate overall richness even though they contain far more records. The combined data set allows the strengths of one data set to augment weaknesses in others. It is likely some museum data sets display skewed abundance distributions due to collectors' potentially self-selecting under-represented species over common ones.
40390711|Aim Resolving the origin of invasive plant species is important for understanding the introduction histories of successful invaders and aiding strategies aimed at their management. This study aimed to infer the number and origin(s) of introduction for the globally invasive species, Macfadyena unguis-cati and Jatropha gossypiifolia using molecular data. Location Native range: Neotropics; Invaded range: North America, Africa, Europe, Asia, Pacific Islands and Australia. Methods We used chloroplast microsatellites (cpSSRs) to elucidate the origin(s) of introduced populations and calculated the genetic diversity in native and introduced regions. Results Strong genetic structure was found within the native range of M. unguiscati, but no genetic structuring was evident in the native range of J. gossypiifolia. Overall, 27 haplotypes were found in the native range of M. unguis-cati. Only four haplotypes were found in the introduced range, with more than 96% of introduced specimens matching a haplotype from Paraguay. In contrast, 15 haplotypes were found in the introduced range of J. gossypiifolia y with all invasive populations, except New Caledonia, comprising multiple haplotypes. Main conclusions These data show that two invasive plant species from the same native range have had vastly different introduction histories in their non-native "ranges. Invasive populations of M. unguis-cati probably came from a single or few independent introductions, whereas most invasive J. gossypiifolia populations arose from multiple introductions or alternatively from a representative sample of genetic diversity from a panmictic native range. As introduced M. unguis-cati populations are dominated by a single haplotype, locally adapted natural enemies should make the best control agents. However, invasive populations of J. gossypiifolia are genetically diverse and the selection of bio-control agents will be considerably more complex.
20171958|Increasingly, biogeographical knowledge and analysis are playing a fundamental role in assessing the representativeness of biodiversity in protected areas, and in identifying critical areas for conservation. With almost 20% of the country assigned to protected areas, Chile is well above the conservation target (i.e. 10-12%) proposed by many international conservation organizations. Moreover, the Chilean government has recently proposed new conservation priority sites to improve the current protected area network. Here, we used all 653 terrestrial vertebrate species present in continental Chile to assess the performance of the existing and proposed reserve networks. Using geographical information systems, we overlaid maps of species distribution, current protected areas, and proposed conservation priority sites to assess how well each species is represented within these networks. Additionally, we performed a systematic reserve selection procedure to identify alternative conservation areas for expanding the current reserve system. Our results show that over 13% of the species are not covered by any existing protected area, and that 73% of Chilean vertebrate species can be considered partial gaps, with only a small fraction of their geographical ranges currently under protection. The coverage is also deficient for endemic (species confined to Chile) and threatened species. While the proposed priority sites do increase coverage, we found that there are still several gaps and these are not the most efficient choices. Both the gap analysis and the reserve selection analysis identified important areas to be added to the existing reserve system, mostly in northern and central Chile. This study underscores the need for a systematic conservation planning approach to redefine the conservation priority sites in order to maximize the representation of species, particularly endemic and threatened species.
20172041|The distributional range of alpine plants experienced dramatic changes during the Quaternary ice ages. These changes offer many opportunities for studying the impact of habitat contraction and fragmentation on both species and genetic diversity. Here, we examined the amplified fragment length polymorphism-based genetic diversity in the sedge Carex curvula All. in relation to the species diversity of siliceous European alpine grasslands in which the sedge is dominant. We found no relationship or even a negative relationship between genetic and species diversity indices. Local species richness was associated with the regional pool size of siliceous alpine species, which was itself dependent on the extant area of suitable habitats for these species. Genetic diversity of C. curvula was primarily shaped by the presumed location of glacial refugia and the routes of post-glacial colonization. We conclude that the two levels of diversity are not positively correlated because genotypes and species do not respond similarly to the spatial dynamics of suitable habitats induced by Quaternary temperature changes.
40390733|Aim To identify the wintering grounds of the threatened western European Lesser Kestrels to focus conservation efforts in those areas. Location Huelva Province, southern Spain, as breeding range, and western Africa (Senegal and Mauritania), as wintering range. Methods We used archival light level geolocators (1.5 g) to map the wintering areas and determine some characteristics of the migratory journeys of 20 adult Lesser Kestrels from the Iberian Peninsula tagged in 2007. Results Thirteen geolocators were recovered the following breeding season (2008) after attachment in 2007. Four recovered geolocators provided useful data. According to kernel density analyses, kestrels wintered near the Senegal River (border between Mauritania and Senegal). Pre-nuptial migration took longer than the post-nuptial migration, which may be the consequence of a loop migration. Main conclusions Geolocators have solved a crucial conservation question (i.e. the winter destination of western European Lesser kestrels), and these devices have thus proved useful to determine the location of the winter quarters of small sized migratory species. Our data indicate that European Lesser Kestrels winter in West Africa, in accordance with previous suggestions based on scattered observations during the winter months. This valuable information should serve to focus conservation efforts both in northern Senegal and southern Mauritania. Large roosts gathering thousands of lesser kestrels had been recorded in these areas over the years, but there was no previous confirmation of individuals staying all winter long. Specific and sustained protection of the roost sites, where the birds may be most vulnerable, should be sought in conjunction with local authorities.
4539914|This study compared the dry season distribution of elephant bull groups and mixed herds and the resources driving these distributions within Kruger National Park, South Africa. It is important to understand what resources drive the distribution of elephants as this may be of relevance to understanding and managing their impact. It is also important to distinguish between resource use by bull groups and mixed herds because their impact on the habitat may differ. Our results indicated that sexual segregation, both in space and in resource selection, did occur in Kruger Park. Bulls roamed more widely in the park, and although their distribution and resource use overlapped with mixed herds, they also occurred in areas that mixed herds apparently did not, or could not, utilize in the dry season. This gave rise to areas used exclusively by bulls but no areas used exclusively by mixed herds. Lower collective feeding requirements as a result of smaller group size, wider habitat tolerance, and increased mobility as a result of bigger body size, as well as conflict avoidance with musth bulls in areas with mixed herds, might have been some of the reasons for bull groups roaming more widely and for the establishment of separate bull areas. Rivers were an important resource driving both the distribution of the mixed herds and bull groups, but with the mixed herds occurring closer to these resource hot spots than the bull groups. Tree cover proved important for mixed herds, probably because of the importance of shade and the higher nutritional requirements of the smaller-sized cows and calves. Artificial waterholes might have opened up previously unutilized areas for bulls in the dry season, especially on the grassy basaltic plains in the north of the park. However, the distribution of the mixed herds suggested that they did not occur in higher densities in areas surrounding waterholes.
41242787|Aim To incorporate evolutionary processes into conservation planning using species distribution patterns and environmental gradients as surrogates for genetic diversity. Location Western Mediterranean Basin. Methods Distributions of 154 herpetological species were predicted using maximum entropy models, and groups of significantly co-occurring species (biotic elements) were identified. Environmental gradients were characterized for the complete area and for the area covered by each biotic element, by performing a principal component analysis on the data matrix composed of nine environmental variables. The first two principal component analysis axes were classified into four categories each, and those categories were combined with each other resulting in an environmental classification with 16 categories. To identify priority conservation areas, biotic elements and environmental categories were used as surrogates for the neutral and adaptive components of genetic diversity, respectively. Priority areas for conservation were identified under three scenarios: (1) setting targets for species only; (2) setting targets for species and for each environmental category of the overall area; and (3) setting targets for each species and for each environmental category within each biotic element. Results Nine biotic elements were identified - four for the amphibians and five for the reptiles. Priority areas identified in the three scenarios were similar in terms of amount of area selected, but exhibited low spatial agreement. Main conclusions Prioritization exercises that integrate surrogates for evolutionary processes can deliver spatial priorities that are fairly different to those where only species representation is considered. While new methods are emerging to incorporate molecular data in conservation prioritization, it is unlikely to be enough data for enough taxa for this to be feasible in many regions. We develop an approach using surrogates for both the neutral and adaptive components of genetic diversity that may enhance biodiversity persistence and representation when molecular data are not available or geographically comprehensive.
3246854|Rock outcrops are considered as habitat or ecological islands discordant from the adjacent matrix. The floras of 24 aggregated outcrop regions within the New England Batholith of eastern Australia were sampled and investigations made into species range differences. A measure is developed to describe differences in species range sizes across floras (range saturation: RS). Range sizes increased in areas with higher incident radiation (higher available energy) and concordantly in regions with a greater proportion of hemi-parasites, epiphytes and herbs (which were demonstrated to have large range sizes). Differences in species' range sizes of granite outcrop occurring species on the New England Batholith of eastern Australia at different scales and extents are regressed against selected environmental variables and against local species richness and abundance. Although species' range size has been linked in a number of systems with increased species richness and local species abundance, such correlations were not obtained in this investigation. Analyses of species' range sizes could not be used to infer directly on processes that maintain species richness or abundance within the granitic outcrop flora of the New England Batholith.
4539950|We identify a significant relationship between domestic market-based propagule pressure, as measured both in presence in the British horticultural market and in seed prices of ornamental plant species, with success in invasion. We employ a multispecies temporal approach and use a Generalized Estimation Equation model comparing ornamental non-native species introduced into Britain which started to invade with species introduced but not known outside cultivation. Historical nursery catalogues gave information on the availability and prices of seeds of 506 ornamental species in the British horticultural market every 20 years from 1885 to 1985. Higher market frequency and cheap prices of seeds were more significant and had a greater impact on the invading probability 20 years later than at the date of listing in a nursery catalogue. Our results suggest that national economic factors are an important part of the explanation for the invasiveness of ornamental plant species, and hence for the development of potential solutions.
2673373|This study presents pollen-analytical data from continental and offshore Iberian Peninsula sites that include pollen curves of Quercus suber, to provide information on the past distribution and ecology of the cork oak (Q. suber). Results centre on a new pollen record of Navarres (Valencia, eastern Spain), which shows that the cork oak survived regionally during the Upper Pleistocene and was important during a mid-Holocene replacement of a local pine forest by Quercus-dominated communities. This phenomenon appears linked to the recurrence of fire and reinforces the value of the cork oak for reforestation programmes in fire-prone areas. In addition to Navarres, other Late Quaternary pollen sequences (Sobrestany, Casablanca-Almenara, Padul, SU 8103, SU8113, 8057B) suggest last glacial survival of the cork oak in southern and coastal areas of the Peninsula and North Africa. Important developments also occur from the Late Glacial to the middle Holocene, not only in the west but also in the eastern Peninsula. It is suggested that, in the absence of human influence, Q. suber would develop in non-monospecific forests, sharing the arboreal stratum both with other sclerophyllous and deciduous Quercus and Pinus species.
3696841|Many life-history characteristics of large mammals are scale sensitive. We provide examples where varying temporal and spatial scales can affect interpretation of data concerning life-history characteristics in large herbivores and carnivores and offer recommendations for selecting the most appropriate sampling scale or scales. We also document that some animals make decisions concerning their spatial distribution at scales well beyond the size of the home range. Conversely, other decisions involving sexual segregation of sexes, or where to give birth, may be made at scales below the level of the habitat patch. Such differences in behaviour affect our understanding of habitat selection in large herbivores, and interpreting tradeoffs between acquiring essential resources and avoiding predators. Moreover, some landscape attributes may be selected at one scale, whereas other characteristics of the environment may be selected at another. We argue that even sophisticated models for explaining the ecology and behaviour of mammals benefit from framing specific hypotheses that are related to the to the life-history characteristics of those animals. We also believe that the failure to consider and select the most appropriate scale, or suite of scales, may lead to the mismanagement of critical natural resources. We forge relationships among scale, life-history characteristics of mammals, and biodiversity. Finally, we synthesize the literature on scale for large mammals and make recommendations for future research.
4539935|In spite of increasing application of presence-only models in ecology and conservation and the growing number of such models, little is known about the relative performance of different modelling methods, and some of the leading models (e.g. GARP and ENFA) have never been compared with one another. Here we compare the performance of six presence-only models that have been selected to represent an increasing level of model complexity [BIOCLIM, HABITAT, Mahalanobis distance (MD), DOMAIN, ENFA, and GARP] using data on the distribution of 42 species of land snails, nesting birds, and insectivorous bats in Israel. The models were calibrated using data from museum collections and observation databases, and their predictions were evaluated using Cohen's Kappa based on field data collected in a standardized sampling design covering most parts of Israel. Predictive accuracy varied between modelling methods with GARP and MD showing the highest accuracy, BIOCLIM and ENFA showing the lowest accuracy, and HABITAT and DOMAIN showing intermediate accuracy levels. Yet, differences between the various models were relatively small except for GARP and MD that were significantly more accurate than BIOCLIM and ENFA. In spite of large differences among species in prevalence and niche width, neither prevalence nor niche width interacted with the modelling method in determining predictive accuracy. However, species with relatively narrow niches were modelled more accurately than species with wider niches. Differences among species in predictive accuracy were highly consistent over all modelling methods, indicating the need for a better understanding of the ecological and geographical factors that influence the performance of species distribution models.
20532110|Aim: We use novel data on the occurrence of the amphibian chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis in Costa Rica to model its potential distribution in that country. Location: Lowland and montane areas of Costa Rica. Methods: We use published and new data on the presence of B. dendrobatidis on 647 amphibians (35 species). Screening was performed through histological techniques by which 156 sites were surveyed. Of these, 21 were found to have the amphibian chytrid. Maxent, a presence-only distribution modelling technique, was used to create 100 predictions of B. dendrobatidis occurrence, of which the most accurate 10 (based on area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve) were chosen to create a composite distribution model. This approach increased confidence in model predictions, distinguishing areas of high probability of occurrence and low variability across model runs (higher confidence) from those with high probability but high variability (lower confidence). Results: Predicted distribution patterns were not uniform along Costa Rica's mountains, where most amphibian declines have occurred. The pathogen was predicted to occur with greater probability on the Caribbean slopes than on the Pacific slopes. While high temperature seems to constrain the distribution of the pathogen, areas that also have small amounts of rainfall during the driest period of the year were predicted to have low probability of B. dendrobatidis occurrence. Main conclusions: The model predicts that the Santa Elena Peninsula and the Central Valley have low probabilities of B. dendrobatidis occurrence, suggesting that they could function as refuges for amphibians. In such refugial areas, one could expect B. dendrobatidis to be absent, or to be present in low abundance (rendering an epidemic outbreak of chytridiomycosis unlikely). Craugastor ranoides, which belongs to a group of frogs particularly sensitive to chytridiomycosis outbreaks, persists in the hot and seasonally dry Santa Elena Peninsula but disappeared in the nearby colder and more humid Guanacaste Volcanic Chain. This information suggests that climatic refuges, where environmental conditions prevent disease outbreaks, could be an important component in amphibian conservation.
20172060|Aim: Human activities are major determinants of forest elephant (Loxodonta africana cyclotis) distribution in Gabon, but the types and intensity of disturbance that elephants can tolerate are not known. We conducted dung surveys within the Gamba Complex of Protected Areas in SW Gabon to examine (1) the feasibility of noninvasive faecal analyses for monitoring stress physiology, and (2) the influence of petroleum operations on stress levels in forest elephants. Location: Gabon, Central Africa. Methods: We identified multiple dung piles from the same individual by matching their eight-locus microsatellite genotypes, and measured faecal concentrations of glucocorticoid metabolites as an indicator of stress in areas subject to different levels of disturbance: (1) Loango National Park (2) an 'industrial corridor' dominated by oil fields, and (3) a nearby area of human settlements. Results: We obtained unique microsatellite genotypes and faecal glucocorticoid metabolite (FGM) concentrations for 150 forest elephant individuals, which is the largest hormonal data set for wild African forest elephants to date. Adults exhibited higher mean FGM concentrations than juveniles, and in contradiction of our expectations of chronic stress around oil fields, elephants in Loango National Park exhibited significantly higher FGM concentrations than elephants in the industrial corridor. Main conclusions: We argue that forest elephants in the industrial corridor of the Gamba Complex have become acclimated to oil fields, resulting in part from oil company regulations that minimize stressful interactions between elephants and petroleum operations. Our findings for a flagship species with substantial ecological requirements bode well for other taxa, but additional studies are needed to determine whether oil operations are compatible over their life span with rain forest ecosystems in Central Africa.
2673394|There has been much debate concerning the relative influence on biodiversity of historical vs. current ecological factors. Although both are important, we suggest that historical influences might be greater at higher taxonomic level, since one is looking further back into evolutionary history than at lower taxonomic level. Although we are unable to separate ecological from historical effects in the present global study on scarabaeine dung beetles, we are able to demonstrate differences in correlations between major environmental influences (climatic area, numbers of dung types) and major components of diversity (taxon richness, taxon diversity, functional composition) at different taxonomic levels (tribe, genus, species). Current global variation in taxon richness is correlated strongly to current biogeographical variation in the area of suitable climate at all three taxonomic levels. However, generic and species richness is correlated most strongly to climatic combinations which include tropical and warm summer rainfall climate types (I, II). In contrast, tribal richness is correlated most strongly to climatic combinations which include both warm summer rainfall and temperate climate types (II, VI, X). Regional variation in the number of available dung types shows a strong positive correlation to regional variation in taxon richness at higher tribal level but not at lower generic and species levels. Similarly, biogeographical differences in the number of available dung types show a strong negative correlation to dominance indices for taxon diversity at tribal level (distribution of generic numbers between tribes) but none at generic level (species numbers per genus). As functional diversification is linked closely to taxonomic diversification at tribal level, proportions of both ball-rolling genera and ball-rolling species also show strong negative correlations to the number of dung types available in each region. In conclusion, the presence of dung type correlations only at higher taxonomic level may reflect historical effects on scarabaeine taxon diversification, whereas differences in correlations to climate type with taxonomic level may reflect both current ecological and historical effects.
41242837|Aim Investigate the relative abilities of different bioclimatic models and data sets to project species ranges in novel environments utilizing the natural experiment in biogeography provided by Australian Acacia species. Location Australia, South Africa. Methods We built bioclimatic models for Acacia cyclops and Acacia pycnantha using two discriminatory correlative models (MaxEnt and Boosted Regression Trees) and a mechanistic niche model (CLIMEX). We fitted models using two training data sets: native-range data only ('restricted') and all available global data excluding South Africa ('full'). We compared the ability of these techniques to project suitable climate for independent records of the species in South Africa. In addition, we assessed the global potential distributions of the species to projected climate change. Results All model projections assessed against their training data, the South African data and globally were statistically significant. In South Africa and globally, the additional information contained in the full data set generally improved model sensitivity, but at the expense of increased modelled prevalence, particularly in extrapolation areas for the correlative models. All models projected some climatically suitable areas in South Africa not currently occupied by the species. At the global scale, widespread and biologically unrealistic projections by the correlative models were explained by open-ended response curves, a problem which was not always addressed by broader background climate space or by the extra information in the full data set. In contrast, the global projections for CLIMEX were more conservative. Projections into 2070 indicated a polewards shift in climate suitability and a decrease in model interpolation area. Main conclusions Our results highlight the importance of carefully interpreting model projections in novel climates, particularly for correlative models. Much work is required to ensure bioclimatic models performed in a robust and ecologically plausible manner in novel climates. We explore reasons for variations between models and suggest methods and techniques for future improvements.
20172019|Habitat fragmentation and invasive species often contribute to the decline of native taxa. Since the penetration of non-native species into natural habitat may be facilitated by habitat fragmentation, it is important to examine how these two factors interact. Previous research documented that, in contrast to most other arthropod taxa, spiders increased in density and morphospecies richness with decreasing fragment area and increasing fragment age (time since insularization) in urban habitat fragments in San Diego County, California, USA. We tested whether a specific mechanism, an increase in non-native species with fragmentation, is responsible for this pattern. We found that both native and non-native taxa contributed to the pattern. Abundance of native spiders per pitfall trap sample increased significantly with decreasing fragment size (i.e. a negative density-area relationship) and abundance of non-natives increased significantly with increasing fragment age. The proportion of non-native individuals also increased significantly with age. One non-native species, Oecobius navus, comprised the majority of non-native individuals (82.2%) and a significant proportion of total individuals (25.1%). Richness of spider families per sample (family density) increased with fragment age due to an increase in the occurrence of non-natives in older fragments, however, native family richness did not vary with age or area. Due to increasing dominance by non-native and some native families, family evenness declined with decreasing fragment size and increasing fragment age. Native and non-native abundance covaried positively arguing against strong negative interactions between the two groups. O. navus had a strong positive association with another common non-native arthropod, the Argentine ant (Linepitheme humile), suggesting a possible direct interaction. In contrast, abundance of native spiders was negatively correlated with Argentine ant abundance. We hypothesize that fragmentation in this semiarid habitat increases productivity in smaller and older fragments enhancing the density of both native and non-native taxa.
4539968| In a recent paper we demonstrated that elephant bull groups and mixed herds exhibited spatial and resource segregation across the Kruger National Park. It was found, inter alia, that both bull groups and mixed herds occurred more frequently closer to rivers than expected if they were randomly distributed, but that only bull groups occurred more frequently closer to the artificial waterholes. Although Chamaill-Jammes et al. (2007) accepted these results, they disagreed with our interpretation regarding the potential effect that closure of artificial waterholes might have. Here we address some of the specific concerns expressed and provide a broader context regarding water provision and elephant management. Although water provision can influence elephant density and distribution, we argue that the effectiveness of surface-water manipulation as a management tool will depend on (1) natural surface-water availability, (2) forage quality, (3) elephant densities, (4) position of a population on its growth trajectory, and (5) management objectives. Even though elephants are water-dependent, the effectiveness of water provision as a management tool will therefore be area- and population-specific and will depend on management objectives. 
40390737|Aims To determine how changes in land use, climate and shrub cover affect the invasion dynamics of native (Pinus sylvestris L.) and introduced (Pinus nigra Arn. subsp. nigra) pines in grasslands. To analyse how these factors interact and affect seedling recruitment, a bottleneck in the lifecycle of many trees. Such information is required to manage the dynamics of these species. Location Grands Causses, calcareous plateaus (Southern France). Methods We used both published and unpublished demographic and dispersal data to assess population growth and invasion speed of invading pines. A demographic and spatially explicit model, which included density dependence and stochasticity in dispersal, demography and environment, was run for different scenarios of sheep grazing pressure (nil, extensive or intensive), shrub cover (0,10 or 20%) and drought frequency (past-to-present or future). For each scenario, population growth rate, invasion speed and elasticity of invasion speed to each demographic and dispersal parameter were computed. Results Grazing was the main factor for limiting invasion speed. Shrub cover reduced tree spread under nil or extensive grazing pressure, but increased it under intensive grazing pressure. Although dry years led to nil seedling establishment rates, an increase in their frequency had surprisingly few effects on pine invasion speed. This last result remained unchanged when very dry years, inducing seedling, but also sapling mortality were introduced. In most envronmental conditions, population growth rate and invasion speed were higher for the introduced than for the native pine. Elasticity analysis highlighted the importance of demographic parameters on invasion speed, notably adult and sapling survival. Main conclusion Tree invasion speed may rely at least as much on human activities, like sheep grazing, tree cutting and non-native trees introduction, as on changes in climate factors. Therefore, human activities need to be explicitly taken into account in the prediction and management of tree dynamics.
4539959|South Africa's first national assessment of spatial priorities for biodiversity conservation, released in 2005, aimed to identify conservation priority areas for mainstreaming into all sectors at national and provincial scales. This National Spatial Biodiversity Assessment (NSBA) was based on a planning for implementation approach in order to deliver defensible products useful to decision-makers. The NSBA aimed to produce a map of broad-scale priority areas for future finer-scale assessment and conservation action. This map summarized information on species, ecosystems, ecological processes, and the pressures they face from human activities. Owing to the complexity of the priority area map, two additional user-friendly products - maps of ecosystem status and protection levels - were developed. These products represented the habitat loss and protected area coverage of South Africa's ecosystems relative to their conservation targets. A year after release, we reflect on the NSBA process, products and uptake by implementing agencies (with a specific focus on the terrestrial biodiversity assessment) in order to contribute to the growing body of documented best practice in conservation planning. The ecosystem status product has been widely used at national and provincial scales due in large to its clear and compelling message. The protection level and overall priority map have also witnessed uptake, the former in guiding the expansion of protected areas and the latter as an integrated map of national biodiversity status. The strong collaboration of local planners and implementers with in-depth experience of biodiversity assessment, using a systematic approach and focusing on communicating a few high level messages, appears to have contributed to the initial, successful uptake of the NSBA. We conclude with a call to address data and monitoring shortcomings before the next NSBA in 2010.
41242828|Aim The genetic makeup and evolutionary potential of alien species can be profoundly influenced by their introduction history, but without detailed historical records, it can be difficult to ascertain the strength of this historical contingency. We explore how the known introduction histories combined with phylogeographic patterns in the native range have affected the genetic diversity in the invasive range for five Australian trees introduced to South Africa (Acacia cyclops. Acacia mearnsii, Acacia pycnantha, Acacia saligna and Paraserianthes lophantha). Location Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales (native and invasive ranges), and South Africa and the Hawaiian Islands (invasive range). Methods DNA sequence data were generated for all study species for either the external transcribed spacer (ETS) or plastid rpl32-trnL (UAG) gene regions (combined total of 180 DNA sequences). Using statistical parsimony networks and genetic diversity indices, we compared genetic structure and variation in native and invasive ranges. Results Australian acacia species tend to have high genetic diversity at the population level in their native ranges, often showing high intra-specific divergence. In most instances, these species have similar levels of population genetic diversity in their adventive ranges in South Africa, but lack structure. For A. cyclops, A. saligna and P. lophantha, we found evidence for intra-specific hybridization between mixed genetic entities in the invasive range, arguably as a result of the structured native range being broadly sampled prior to introduction. Main conclusions Invasive species that have been extensively used in forestry often have complex introduction histories resulting in equally complex genetic signatures in the invasive range. Our results show that extreme caution should be taken when using indirect inferences (molecular genetic data) of introduction histories in the absence of detailed introduction records.
3877722|The potential distribution of alien species in a novel habitat often is difficult to predict because factors limiting species distributions may be unique to the new locale. Eragrostis lehmanniana is a perennial grass purposely introduced from South Africa to Arizona, USA in the 1930s; by the 1980s, it had doubled its extent. Based on environmental characteristics associated with its introduced and native range, researchers believed that E. lehmanniana had reached the limits of its distribution by the early 1990s. We collected data on E. lehmanniana locations from various land management agencies throughout Arizona and western New Mexico and found new records that indicate that E. lehmanniana has continued to spread. Also, we employed two modelling techniques to determine the current potential distribution and to re-investigate several environmental variables related to distribution. Precipitation and temperature regimes similar to those indicated by past research were the most important variables influencing model output. The potential distribution of E. lehmanniana mapped by both models was
3246887|The spatial distribution of invasive alien plants has been poorly documented in California. However, with the increased availability of GIS software and spatially explicit data, the distribution of invasive alien plants can be explored. Using bioregions as defined in Hickman (1993), I compared the distribution of invasive alien plants (n = 78) and noninvasive alien plants (n = 1097). The distribution of both categories of alien plants was similar with the exception of a higher concentration of invasive alien plants in the North Coast bioregion. Spatial autocorrelation analysis using Moran's I indicated significant spatial dependence for both invasive and noninvasive alien plant species. I used both ordinary least squares (OLS) and spatial autoregressive (SAR) models to assess the relationship between alien plant species distribution and native plant species richness, road density, population density, elevation, area of sample unit, and precipitation. The OLS model for invasive alien plants included two significant effects; native plant species richness and elevation. The SAR model for invasive alien plants included three significant effects; elevation, road density, and native plant species richness. The SAR model for noninvasive alien plants resulted in the same significant effects as invasive alien plants. Both invasive and noninvasive alien plants are found in regions with low elevation, high road density, and high native-plant species richness. This is in congruity with previous spatial pattern studies of alien plant species. However, the similarity in effects for both categories of alien plants alludes to the importance of autecological attributes, such as pollination system, dispersal system and differing responses to disturbance in the distribution of invasive plant species. In addition, this study emphasizes the critical importance of testing for spatial autocorrelation in spatial pattern studies and using SAR models when appropriate.
