30244683|The generalist predation hypothesis predicts that the functional responses of generalist predator species should be quicker than those of specialist predators and have a regulating effect on vole populations. New interpretations of their role in temperate ecosystems have, however, reactivated a debate suggesting generalist predators may have a destabilizing effect under certain conditions (e.g. landscape homogeneity, low prey diversity, temporary dominance of 1 prey species associated with a high degree of dietary specialization). We studied a rich predator community dominated by generalist carnivores (Martes spp., Vulpes vulpes, Felis catus) over a 6 yr period in farmland and woodland in France. The most frequent prey were small rodents (mostly Microtus arvalis, a grassland species, and Apodemus spp., a woodland species). Alternative prey were diverse and dominated by lagomorphs (Oryctolagus cuniculus, Lepus europeus). We detected a numerical response among specialist carnivores but not among generalist predators. The dietary responses of generalist predators were fairly complex and most often dependent on variation in density of at least 1 prey species. These results support the generalist predation hypothesis. We document a switch to alternative prey, an increase of diet diversity, and a decrease of diet overlap between small and medium-sized generalists during the low density phase of M. arvalis. In this ecosystem, the high density phases of small mammal species are synchronous and cause a temporary specializing of several generalist predator species. This rapid functional response may indicate the predominant role of generalists in low amplitude population cycles of voles observed in some temperate areas.
3683774| The seed bank along a successional and environmental gradient was analysed. Soil was collected in 3-cm thick horizons from permanent plots along two transects across a land uplift seashore, spanning several centuries of succession from shoreline to mature forest. Vegetation in the plots was recorded when the soil was sampled and also 9 and 15 yr before that. Within- and between-plot effects on seed bank/vegetation relationships were analysed using estimates of seed longevity, Srensen's similarity index and mean Ellenberg indicator values. A seed bank longevity index was constructed by using the database by Thompson et al. (1997. The soil seed banks of north west Europe. Methodology, density and longevity. - Cambridge Univ. Press), for all species with more than one entry in the database. For species with one or no entry, an internal index was constructed. The two indices were correlated and it was suggested that the internal index should be used where the Thompson database is insufficient. There were small differences between the upper three soil horizons in seed density, in similarity with the vegetation and in mean Ellenberg values. The highest seed densities and seed bank/vegetation similarities were found at the shoreline, after that the density and the similarity decreased with increasing successional age, with the mature forest having very low seed density and similarity values. Weighted mean Ellenberg indicator values for light, nitrogen, salt and moisture differed between vegetation and seed bank. For the seed bank, the mean Ellenberg values for light, moisture and nitrogen and weighted mean of seed bank longevity indices showed a trend along one of the transects. 
3682777|The relationship between overall abundance, local abundance and distribution is examined for several taxonomic groups of birds in Britain. Among closely-related species, all three measures were correlated: those species with the highest overall numbers also had the highest local numbers and the widest distributions. Within each group, the relationship between overall abundance and distribution was extremely tight (with all the species points close to the trend line) in plots of log distribution (numbers of 10 km squares occupied) against log numbers. The pattern held in summer and winter, and in both resident and migratory species. Moreover, species which, over a period of years, underwent marked change in status showed parallel changes in both breeding numbers and distribution, and followed the pattern found from comparisons between related species. Conversely, species which changed little in numbers over a period of years also changed little in extent of distribution. An explanation of the findings is proposed, based on density-dependent growth of local numbers and dispersal. The relevance of the findings to the limitation of geographical ranges is discussed. The distributional extent of many species seems to depend primarily on their overall numbers, rather than vice versa.
30244621|Large herbivores can affect vegetation structure and species composition as well as material and energy flows in the ecosystem through their selective feeding, defecation, urination and trampling. These changes have a large potential to indirectly affect other trophic levels, but the mechanisms are poorly known. We studied the impacts of moose Alces alces browsing along a gradient of site productivity by experimentally simulating four different moose densities. Here we show that moose can affect the richness and abundance of three trophic levels in Swedish boreal forests through complex direct and indirect impacts, but in qualitatively different ways depending on how the physical habitat or food resources of a trophic level are affected. Vegetation richness had a hump-shaped (unimodal) response to increased moose density. Leaf litter production decreased when browsing increased, which in turn depressed the abundance of flying prey for spiders. Consequently, spider abundance and richness declined monotonically. The responses of spider richness to moose density were further conditioned by site productivity: the response was positive at productive and negative at unproductive sites. In contrast, herbivorous Hemiptera were not affected by moose, most likely because the abundance of their food plants was not affected. The highest simulated moose density had an impact on all variables responding to moose even after a few years of treatment and can be considered as overabundance. We also show that the impacts of low or moderate moose density can be positive to some of the organisms negatively affected by high density. The level of herbivore population density that leads to substantial community impacts also depends on site factors, such as productivity.
3682768|Disturbance can eliminate sensitive native species and facilitate invasions by exotics, but disturbance is also important in the maintenance of many native-dominated ecosystems. Because of this dual role, disturbance can have complex implications for biodiversity. I have investigated the effects of an introduced agent of disturbance, the feral pig Sus scrofa L., in meadows in northern California. Pigs were the principal agent of soil disturbance at this site, annually overturning an average of 7.4% of the total surface area. Grubbed areas revegetated rapidly, but grubbing had significant effects on the composition of the affected vegetation. Species richness was reduced in grubbed plots in the first year following disturbance, but rose thereafter, often exceeding the richness of undisturbed controls. Disturbance did not exclusively benefit either native or exotic species. Changes in richness primarily reflected the early colonization of disturbed plots by natives, particularly annuals, although alien annual grasses also increased in disturbed sites. Consequently, though non-natives did respond positively to disturbance, at least in the short-term they did not simply replace natives. Pigs' effects may typify the complicated events to be expected when an ecosystem's regime of disturbance is significantly altered, either by direct human intervention or as a consequence of a biological invasion.
3683625|The distributional patterns of forest birds and butterflies in the Andaman islands, an oceanic chain located off SE Asia, were tested for nestedness. Both taxa were highly nested. Nestedness could be due to colonization or extinction processes, area or distance effects or nestedness of habitats. Nestedness in forest bird distributions were strongly influenced by area and habitat related factors. Habitats were significantly nested in all three island groups, however most strongly for the North Andamans. However forest bird distributions in the North Andamans, as indicated by row order in the packed matrix, was not correlated with habitat diversity, suggesting that habitat related factors alone cannot account for these patterns. Other causal influences could be passive sampling, where common and abundant species and habitats are more likely to have a widespread distribution than rare species and habitats. The nested subset pattern seen in two unrelated taxa suggests that the Andamans are extinction dominated and that the protection of forests on large islands is critical for the conservation of its biodiversity.
3683800|We have monitored population fluctuations of microtine rodents since 1977 in two habitat complexes in Finnmark, northernmost Norway - a low arctic plains landscape, with patches of willow scrubland embedded in lichen-dwarf birch tundra, and in adjacent highlands, occupied by scrub-free heaths, snow-beds and bogs. In the plains landscape, voles were cyclic, with a period of five years, and with wave-like density fluctuations. This pattern is consistent with time trajectory of prey in a predator-prey limit cycle. Autoregression analysis implies that the prey pattern is cleanest in the most productive plains habitats, while dynamics in the prevailing heath and bog habitats are governed by two significant lags, implying that even vole-plant interactions count. In the highlands, lemmings had two outbreaks, characterized by J-shaped growth curves, and separated by long periods of low density. The fluctuation pattern of lemmings in highlands was consistent with the predicted time trajectory of a predator. The implications of time trajectories are corroborated by direct evidence on microtine impacts upon the vegetation and on spatial patterns in predator activity. Even the strong dispersal tendency of lemmings during population peaks is consistent with the conjecture that they are adapted to play the role of a predator in a sustained predator-prey cycle. As a whole, the pattern supports T. Oksanen's modification of the hypothesis of exploitation ecosystems, where both local productivity and the structure of the landscape are taken in account.
30244607|Parasites are important selective forces upon the evolutionary ecology of their hosts. At least one hypothesis suggests that high species diversity in the tropics is associated with higher parasite abundance in tropical climates. Few studies, however, have directly assessed whether parasite abundance is higher in the tropics. To address this question, it is ideal, although seldom achievable, to compare parasite abundance in a single species that occurs over a geographical area including both temperate and tropical regions. We examined variation in blood parasite abundance in seven populations of a single lizard host species (Eulamprus quoyit) using a transect that spans temperate and tropical climates. Parasite prevalence (proportion of the host population infected) showed no geographical pattern. Interestingly though, parasite load was higher in lizard populations in the tropics, and was related to mean annual temperature, but not to rainfall. We speculate that in this system the relationship between latitude and parasite load is most likely due to variation in host life history over their geographic range.
30244686|The importance of European wild rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus both as a pest in some areas and as a key prey species in others emphasizes the need to understand what controls its population dynamics worldwide. In this study we aim to describe the variability in rabbit breeding parameters and identify the main factors that govern it at a global scale. Despite the species' wide distribution, some reproductive traits such as short sexual maturity age, duration of gestation period, and existence of post-partum oestrus are similar in all populations conferring the species a high breeding potential. Nevertheless, other aspects vary substantially among regions resulting in highly different population productivities and also across years. These latter parameters are the length of breeding season, proportion of pregnant females, age of first reproduction, and number and size of litters. Our results show that variability in these attributes is mainly affected by a combination of environmental controls (i.e. temperature, resource availability, and photoperiod) and individual properties (age and body weight). On the other hand, the effect of other factors such as population density could not be demonstrated. Knowledge about the factors driving global reproduction patterns of European wild rabbits will improve our understanding about their population dynamics, and thus will help to optimize the management and conservation of their populations.
30243212|Diversity of most above-ground organisms increases with decreasing latitude, but the biogeographical and macroecological diversity patterns of below-ground animals have been poorly studied. We investigated the latitudinal diversity gradient in a primarily below-ground living soil taxon, oribatid mites. Furthermore, oribatid mite species richness from islands and mainlainds was tested for correlation with the size of the respective area (island or mainland) to evaluate if their species-area relationships are similar to those of above-ground taxa. The results suggest that for oribatid mites 1) diversity increases from the boreal to the warm temperate region but not further to the tropics, and 2) species-area relationships for islands and mainlands are similar to those of aboveground taxa, but this is mainly caused by very small islands, such as Cocos islands, and very large islands, such as Madagascar. When these islands are excluded the species-area relationship strongly differs from those of typical islands. The results support the view that below-ground animal taxa are generalists that inhabit wide niches. Most small islands have relatively rich oribatid mite faunas, supporting the observation that a large number of species can coexist in a small area (high -diversity).
3683165| We confirmed that Rhyacodrilus spp. of Yasuda and Okino (1987) (Tubificidae, Oligochaeta) migrated entirely downward below 15 cm into the sediment from June to September in Lake Suwa, a shallow eutrophic lake in Japan. In October, Rhyacodrilus spp. began to return to the upper layer and immediately attained sexual maturity. They tended to show reduced body weight and respiratory activity during summer. The results indicate that an oligochaete of Rhyacodrilus spp. estivated in the deeper layer during summer. The estivation ostensibly occurred at 15C and the species died off at 20C, so it is evident that they must migrate from the surface to the deeper layer of sediment during summer in order to escape high temperature. Furthermore, physiological experiment suggested that this behavior is accelerated by low oxygen concentration with high temperature. 
3682832|We evaluated palatability of winter dormant tree twigs to the mountain hare Lepus timidus and the grey-sided vole Clethrionomys rufocanus with captive animals. We tested differences among trees within sites, among sites, and between two tree species (the mountain birch Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii and the tea-leaved willow Salix phylicifolia). In one of the sites, we also measured growth rates of autumnal moth Epirrita autumnata larvae on the same trees that were used in preference trials with the hares and voles. The differences in palatability to hares and voles were greatest at the level of tree species; both hares and voles preferred birches over willows, but with the hare there was some overlap in palatability between the tree species. There were also large and significant differences among sites and among trees within sites. Within sites, variation in tree palatability seemed to be larger among willows than among birches. Hares and voles may select willows at least partly on the same basis, but there was no correlation between palatability of the trees to the mammals and the growth rate of the larvae of the autumnal moth on the same trees. Variation in twig palatability to the hares and voles was so large at all levels (among trees within sites, among sites and between tree species) that we suggest it also has implications for food selection of these mammalian herbivores under natural conditions.
3683038|Parasitoids that must kill the host to complete their development are expected to evolve towards increased virulence. In some conditions however Leptopilina boulardi loses its ability to counteract the host immune reaction. This trait is determined by major genes. For each host species there is a specific gene for immune suppression by the parasite. Here the geographic variations of the immunosuppressive gene frequencies are investigated in relation to the distribution of the host species. The necessity to deal with host immunity is a major constraint on the host range of L. boulardi. Against Drosophila simulans and D. yakuba, the presence of the immunosuppressive allele is correlated with the presence of the host species in the locality. Against D. melanogaster, the data suggest that this gene is counterselected when the parasite is exposed to numerous host species. This counterselection is explained by the existence of a cost of immunosuppressive genes. Against D. yakuba, this cost was evaluated in population cages as a selective coefficient of s = -0.20. The cost differs between the genes. Against D. melanogaster, it was not significant in population cage conditions. The parasitoid invests more in the suppression of the D. yakuba reaction than that of D. melanogaster. This variation of the investment in immunosuppression is discussed within the framework of the adaptive budget theory.
3683025|The precise relationship between species diversity and spatial heterogeneity has not often been investigated using quantitative and repeatable measures of environmental variation. In this study, we map the metre-level distribution of fern species in one hectare of old-growth forest and test for a relationship between diversity and heterogeneity of physical features and soil conditions. The nineteen species recorded in the hectare were non-randomly distributed and varied greatly in abundance and spatial aggregation. Different species distributions were not independent of one another; three groups were formed with species which occurred together significantly more often than random expectation. Physical and soil conditions were highly variable and spatially autocorrelated from the 5 m scale up to the extent of the whole hectare. Based on the sites where they grew, species differed in their preferences for soil moisture, fertility and pH. Fern diversity was highest at sites with high soil moisture and low soil fertility; however, there was no relationship between diversity and the environmental variance within quadrats. Unpredictable spatial distribution patterns produced by processes of dispersal and immigration may obscure any relationship between diversity and spatial heterogeneity at this fine scale.
30243122|This study explores how variation of macro- and micro-climatic conditions associated with changes in altitude affect early recruitment dynamics of the perennial herb Helleborus foetidus (Ranunculaceae). We also analyse the relevance of facilitation by woody vegetation on seedling recruitment along altitudinal gradient. We conducted a sowing experiment testing the effect of altitude (using three populations located at 1100, 1400 and 1650 m a.s.1.) and woody cover (open areas vs cover of woody species) on seedling emergence during two years and survival three years after sowing. Simultaneously, we characterised elevations and cover types in terms of climatic factors (surface air temperature and relative humidity) throughout a whole year, and light conditions (global site factor and red/infrared ligh ratio) using hemispheric photographs. We detected a significant effect of elevation on seedling emergence, with a higher emergence at lowest altitude. Woody cover greatly affected seedling survival and recruitment, both rates being higher under woody species than in open areas. Emergence was negatively correlated with winter stress factors, which increased with elevation. Survival and recruitment were negatively correlated with summer stress factors, which were ameliorated by woody cover and with altitude. Amelioration of climatic factors by woody cover was not influenced by altitude. Implications for species persistence in Mediterranean mountains under climate change scenarios are discussed.
30244701|Evolutionary studies on optimal decisions or conservation guidelines are often derived by generalising patterns from a single population, while inter-population variability in life-history traits is seldom considered. We investigated here how survival and recruitment probabilities changed with age at different geographical scales using the encounter histories of 5523 European storm petrels from three Mediterranean colonies, and also how our estimates of these parameters might be expected to affect population growth rates using population matrix models. We recorded similar patterns among colonies, but also important biological differences. Local survival, recruitment and breeding success increased with age at all colonies; the most distant of three colonies (Marettimo Is.) showed the largest differences. Strikingly, differences in recruitment were also found between two adjacent colonies (two caves from Benidorm Is.). Birds marked as adults from Marettimo and Benidorm colonies had a different survival, whereas we found no differences within Benidorm. Differences in survival were no longer apparent between the two islands at the end of the study following a reduction in predation by specialist gulls at Benidorm. Since birds marked as fledglings mostly recruited near the end of the study, their overall survival was high and in turn similar among colonies. Results from our population matrix models suggested that different age-dependent patterns of demographic parameters can lead to similar population growth rates. Variability appeared to be greater for recruitment and the most sensitive parameter was adult survival. Thus conservation actions targeting this vulnerable species should focus on factors influencing adult survival. Differences in survival and recruitment among colonies could reflect the spatial heterogeneity in mortality due to predation and colony-specific density dependent processes. Results highlight the importance of taking into account the potential spatio-temporal heterogeneity among populations in vital rates, even in those traits that life-history theory considers less important in driving population dynamics.
30244511|Species distributional or trait data based on range map (extent-of-occurrence) or atlas survey data often display spatial autocorrelation, i.e. locations close to each other exhibit more similar values than those further apart. If this pattern remains present in the residuals of a statistical model based on such data, one of the key assumptions of standard statistical analyses, that residuals are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d), is violated. The violation of the assumption of i.i.d. residuals may bias parameter estimates and can increase type I error rates (falsely rejecting the null hypothesis of no effect). While this is increasingly recognised by researchers analysing species distribution data, there is, to our knowledge, no comprehensive overview of the many available spatial statistical methods to take spatial autocorrelation into account in tests of statistical significance. Here, we describe six different statistical approaches to infer correlates of species' distributions, for both presence/absence (binary response) and species abundance data (poisson or normally distributed response), while accounting for spatial autocorrelation in model residuals: autocovariate regression; spatial eigenvector mapping; generalised least squares; (conditional and simultaneous) autoregressive models and generalised estimating equations. A comprehensive comparison of the relative merits of these methods is beyond the scope of this paper. To demonstrate each method's implementation, however, we undertook preliminary tests based on simulated data. These preliminary tests verified that most of the spatial modeling techniques we examined showed good type I error control and precise parameter estimates, at least when confronted with simplistic simulated data containing spatial autocorrelation in the errors. However, we found that for presence/absence data the results and conclusions were very variable between the different methods. This is likely due to the low information content of binary maps. Also, in contrast with previous studies, we found that autocovariate methods consistently underestimated the effects of environmental controls of species distributions. Given their widespread use, in particular for the modelling of species presence/absence data (e.g. climate envelope models), we argue that this warrants further study and caution in their use. To aid other ecologists in making use of the methods described, code to implement them in freely available software is provided in an electronic appendix.
3683643|In this study, we investigated the effect of reindeer grazing on tundra heath vegetation in northern Norway. Fences, erected 30 yr ago, allowed us to compare winter grazed, lightly summer grazed and heavily summer grazed vegetation at four different sites. At two sites, graminoids dominated the heavily grazed zone completely, while ericoid dwarf shrubs had almost disappeared. In the other two areas, the increase of graminoids was almost significant. At one of the sites where graminoids dominated the heavily grazed area, we also measured plant biomass, primary production and nitrogen cycling. In this site, heavy grazing increased primary production and rate of nitrogen cycling, while moderate grazing decreased primary production. These results were inconsistent with the view that the highest productivity is found at intermediate grazing pressure. These results rather support the hypothesis that intensive grazing can promote a transition of moss-rich heath tundra into productive, graminoid-dominated steppe-like tundra vegetation. Moreover the results suggests that intermittent intensive reindeer grazing can enhance productivity of summer ranges.
3683851|The hawksbill turtle Eretmochelys imbricata is a widely distributed and critically endangered species that feeds on sponges and fills an important ecological role in the coral reef ecosystem. At Tortuguero, Costa Rica, trend analyses indicate considerable decline in nesting estimated at 77.2-94.5% between 1956 and 2003, as a result of excessive turtle fishing. We analyzed flipper tag returns, satellite telemetry and genetic samples to determine movements and habitat use of adult female Tortuguero hawksbills. Tag returns and satellite telemetry show hawksbills migrate to foraging grounds in Nicaragua and Honduras. Genetic analysis indicates the hawksbills may also migrate to Cuban, Puerto Rican, and possibly Mexican waters. We conclude hawksbills represent an internationally shared resource. There is a close correlation between tag recapture sites, hawksbill foraging grounds and coral reef distribution. Caribbean coral reef decline may reduce food availability and negatively impact hawksbill turtles. Conversely, hawksbill decline may shift the balance on coral reefs by reducing predation pressure on sponges and hence make coral reefs less resilient to natural and anthropogenic threats. Strategies aiming to conserve hawksbills and coral reefs must consider both the extensive hawksbill migrations and the close relationship between the species and the coral reef ecosystem.
3683642|Analyses of changes in vegetation were carried out after three, seven and ten years of fertilizer addition, warming and light attenuation in two subarctic, alpine dwarf shrub heaths. One site was just above the tree line, at ca 450 m a.s.l., and the other at a much colder fell-field at ca 1150 m altitude. The aim was to investigate how the treatments affected the abundance of different species and growth forms over time, including examinations of transient changes. Grasses, which increased in abundance by fertilizer addition, and cryptogams, which, by contrast, decreased by fertilizer addition and warming, were the most sensitive functional groups to the treatments at both sites. Nutrient addition exerted a stronger and more consistent effect than both shading and warming. Warming at the fell-field had slightly greater effect than at the warmer tree line with an increase in deciduous shrubs. The decreased abundance of mosses and lichens to fertilizer addition and/or warming was most likely an indirect treatment effect, caused by competition through increased abundance and overgrowth of grasses. Such changes in species composition are likely to alter decomposition rates and the water and energy exchange at the soil surface. We observed few, if any, transient effects of declining responses during the 10 yr of treatments. Instead, there were many cumulative effects of the treatments for all functional groups and many interactions between time and treatment, suggesting that once a change in community composition is triggered, it will continue with unchanged or accelerated rate for a long period of time.
30244634|Recruitment is a complex process consisting of sequential stages affected by biotic interactions and abiotic factors. Assessment of these sequential stages and corresponding subprocesses may be useful in identifying the most critical stages. Accordingly, to assess the factors that may determine the altitudinal range limits of the high mountain Mediterranean plant Silene ciliata, a set of demographic stages, from flower production to establishment of 2-yr-old plants, and their influence on recruitment probability were examined using a step-by-step approach. We integrated florivory, pollination and pre-dispersal seed predation as pre-dispersal factors, and seedling emergence and survival as post-dispersal determinants of recruitment. Three populations were monitored at the southernmost margin of the species along its local altitudinal range. Previous studies suggest that seediness is strongly limited by summer drought especially at the lower boundary of the species, a situation that may worsen under current global warming. Our results showed that recruitment was mainly limited by low seed production in the pre-dispersal stage and low seedling emergence and survival in the post-dispersal stage, probably due to environmental harshness in summer. By contrast, biotic factors responsible for propagule loss, such as flower and fruit predation, had a minor effect on the probability of plant recruitment. Although the relative importance of transition probabilities was similar among populations along the altitudinal range, comparatively lower flower production significantly reduced the number of recruited plants at the lowest altitude population. This demographic bottleneck, together with increased competition with other species favoured by climate warming, might collapse population growth and limit persistence at the lower altitudinal range of the species, raising its low local altitudinal edge.
3683006| The influence of irregular or incomplete fragmentation and increasing degradation of natural rain forest on diurnal raptor community was studied in the northern part of the western Ghts in southwestern India. A census of mainly territorial breeding pairs on 400 ha sample quadrats was associated with a measure of the percent cover of the main habitat types and a degree of forest fragmentation including irregular patch shape and habitat heterogeneity. Four groups of 3-4 species were defined according to their decreasing tolerance to forest fragmentation and disturbance, from mostly open grassland species to interior forest specialists. Habitat selection, density and sensitivity to landscape structure were investigated. The community composition and dynamic of each habitat were the sum of these specific reactions. The distribution of species along the succession of increasing fragmentation and forest degradation was thus found to be non random, but did not follow a nested subset pattern. The density of forest species declined with forest patch size possibly because of the irregular patch shape, the increased edge effects and the consequent increase of linear distance for a bird to cover within its territory. However, sensitivity to habitat structure and disturbance was found to be even higher than sensitivity to area per se. The need to conserve the largest patches of little disturbed forest is emphasized, as well as the conservation value of woodlots-open habitat mosaics that are suitable for a different set of species. 
3683755|The development of regular, oriented hummock-hollow or string-flark patterns in boreal peatlands can be explained by a simple spatially explicit model in which hummocks have a lower hydraulic conductivity than hollows and are more likely to occur at lower water levels. Revisiting a previously published model, the function used to simulate water flow is shown to be faulty. Nevertheless, the corrected model confirms the general conclusions of the original paper, showing the robustness of the approach. Five phases can be discerned in the development of the pattern. Once the hummock strings reach from left to right across the grid, there is an increase in the volume of water stored in the system. The number of hummocks and hollows differs substantially from what would be expected based on the mean water level, showing that their arrangement is more important than the actual number of hummocks. Parameter settings at which a pattern develops are sharply delineated, indicating there is a positive feedback mechanism that enhances initial patterning. Like in natural mire systems, the patterns anastomose and merge. In contrast to what is generally assumed for natural systems, the patterns show a distinct downward movement.
3683781|Trophic regulation models suggest that the magnitude of herbivory and predation (top-down forces) should vary predictably with habitat productivity. Theory also indicates that temporal abiotic variation and within-trophic level heterogeneity both affect trophic dynamics, but few studies addressed how these factors interact over broad-scale environmental gradients. Here we document herbivory from leaf-feeding insects along a natural rainfall/productivity gradient in Nothofagus pumilio forests of northern Patagonia, Argentina, and evaluate the impact of insectivorous birds on foliar damage experienced by tree saplings at each end of the gradient. The study ran over three years (1997-2000) comprising a severe drought (1998-1999), which allowed us to test how climatic events alter top-down forces. Foliar damage tended to increase towards the xeric, least productive forests. However, we found a predictable change of insect guild prevalence across the forest gradient. Leaf miners accounted for the greater damage recorded in xeric sites, whereas leaf chewers dominated in the more humid and productive forests. Interannual folivory patterns depended strongly on the feeding guild and forest site. Whereas leaf-miner damage decreased during the drought in xeric sites, chewer damage increased after the drought in the wettest site. Excluding birds did not affect leaf damage from miners, but generally increased chewer herbivory on hydric and xeric forest saplings. Indirect effects elicited by bird exclusion became most significant after the drought, when total folivory levels were higher. Thus, interannual abiotic heterogeneity markedly influenced the amount of folivory and strength of top-down control observed across the forest gradient. Moreover, our results suggest that spatial turnovers between major feeding guilds may need be considered to predict the dynamics of insect herbivory along environmental gradients.
3683248| A field experiment was established in a subarctic grassland in the Finnish Lapland to study the role of summer herbivory in plant community succession. Perennial vegetation and moss cover were removed in an area of
3683613|In a multi-prey system, predators kill different kinds of prey according to their availability, where "availability" is a function of prey abundance and vulnerability (e.g. anti-predator behavior). We hypothesized that prey availability changes seasonally, for instance because reproduction leads to a higher abundance of young in spring and summer or because changes in behavior such as during the mating season makes the prey periodically more vulnerable. We tested this hypothesis in a simple predator-prey system in the Jura Mountains of Switzerland and France, where a single large mammalian predator, the Eurasian lynx, preys upon two ungulate species, the roe deer and the chamois. In 1996 and 1997 we were able to assign a total of 190 roe deer and 54 chamois killed by lynx to a specific age and sex class (males, females or juveniles). As expected, the proportion of juveniles killed varied considerably among periods, being at the highest from 1st of June to 15th of August. No significant seasonal differences were detected regarding the frequency of predation on males versus females. In particular, the interaction between species and period, expected because of different timing of the rutting period between roe deer and chamois, was not significant. Females were killed only slightly more often during gestation. The relationship between prey abundance and vulnerability is highly complex, as the lynx' prey selection needs to be analyzed not only horizontally (changes of a specific prey category with season) but also vertically (an increase in the vulnerability of one category releases predation pressure on others). Second, we predicted that certain activities, such as feeding, expose prey to predation more than others. We found more chamois predated when feeding, whereas roe deer were predated mainly when ruminating. This interspecific discrepancy reflects differences either in the anti-predator behavior of roe deer and chamois or in the relative time allocation to feeding and ruminating between the two species.
3682989|The food and habitat niches of two nesting species of hawks Accipiter spp. were studied in an extensively forested area of the Eastern Deciduous Forest Biome. Nesting habitat was quantitated at 19 Cooper's hawk A. cooperii nests and 16 northern goshawk A. gentilis nests. There was no significant trend for Cooper's hawks to nest in less mature forests than northern goshawks as reported previously for western North America. Forest habitats did not differ markedly except that shrub cover was greater at Cooper's hawk nest sites, which were also on flatter terrain and closer to roads, forest openings, and human habitation. However, these few differences resulted in reducing habitat-niche overlap considerably (0.538), as was calculated using principal components analysis. Mean prey weight was significantly larger for the northern goshawk which follows its 2.2-fold body weight advantage over Cooper's hawk. Although bird prey was of primary importance to both Accipiter, goshawks took twice the proportion of mammals compared to their smaller congener. Food-niche overlap was lowest by prey species overlap (0.470), followed by prey size class overlap (0.529), and highest by vertical foraging zone overlap (0.816). The Cooper's hawk showed the greatest niche breadth for both food and habitat niches indicating it as more of a generalist. Overall, niche complementarity of food and habitat dimensions resulted in niche overdispersion along food and habitat dimensions with a total niche overlap (0.504) that was below the competition threshold. These results suggested that competition (past and current) was responsible for segregating niches.
3682874|The distribution of three gerbil species in the Negev Desert, Israel differs in relation to sandy habitats. Gerbillus gerbillus occurs in sand only, Gerbillus dasyurus lives in all habitat types except sand, Gerbillus henleyi occurs in sand at high density periods only. We hypothesized that the reason for this distribution pattern is differential ability of species to forage in sand. We tested the ability of gerbils to search for seeds in sand layers of different depths and predicted that a) G. gerbillus will have equal search success at different sand depths, b) G. henleyi (which is twice smaller than G. gerbillus and G. dasyurus) will find seeds in thin layers better than in deep layers, and c) G. dasyurus will successfully find seeds in the thinnest layers only. We predicted also d) that G. gerbillus relies on olfaction for seed location, so its foraging success will be higher in searching for whole seeds than for seed kernels, whereas this will not be the case for G. henleyi and G. dasyurus. We examined the responses of the three species to odor of whole seeds vs seed kernels in Y-maze. In regards to seed depth, the search success of G. gerbillus was significantly higher when the whole seeds rather than kernels were offered in all treatments except the control, but sand depth did not influence the search success. The search success of G. dasyurus and G. henleyi did not depend on the type of seeds offered. The search success of G. dasyurus was lower in experimental (1, 3, 5 and 8 cm sand depth) than in control (1 mm sand depth) treatments, but did not differ among most experimental treatments. The search success of the smallest G. henleyi depended on sand depth for both whole seeds and kernels. Gerbillus gerbillus and G. dasyurus did not lose body masses in any treatment, whereas body mass changes of G. henleyi were influenced by the depth of sand in which gerbils foraged. No species demonstrated differences in response to whole seeds vs kernels in Y-maze tests.
30243175|Few mechanisms that determine the assemblage structure of mites have been identified. Whilst the relative abundance of soil fauna is known to change with humus form, the degree to which the quantity of litter inputs play a part in these changes has not been investigated. We tested the response of oribatid and mesostigmatid mites in litter and soil layers to increasing levels of birch Betula pubescens litter to test whether litter mass could affect the mite assemblage. Six litter treatments (1, 2, 4, 8 and 12 x natural litter mass and complete litter removal) were established in November 2004 and the soil and litter communities sampled in October 2005. Species composition of oribatids was distinct for the soil and litter. There was no apparent effect of increasing litter mass on the soil mite assemblage. In the litter layer, the number of oribatids g of litter showed a strong negative relationship with increasing litter mass whilst the number of mesostigmatids g of litter was unresponsive to litter mass. Hence, the relative abundance of these two groups altered with increasing litter mass. The response of the oribatid groups Oppiidae and Poronota followed this negative relationship with litter mass but Phthiracaridae appeared less affected. Consequently, there was a subtle shift in the relative abundance of these groups with increasing litter mass. Our results demonstrate that oribatids as a whole and within groups respond in a predictable manner to increases in litter mass whilst mesostigmatids are unresponsive. Whilst there are undoubtedly biological and physical aspects that vary with litter mass, litter mass itself, is able to explain some patterns in the assemblage of oribatid mites.
3683467|We studied the relationship between abundance and extent of occupancy of 158 species of macrofauna inhabiting 66 sandy beaches around the coast of Great Britain. We also used these data to test the predictions of two hypotheses proposed to explain positive abundance-occupancy relationships. We found a strong positive relationship between abundance and extent of occupancy; this pattern was apparent in taxonomic subsets of organisms which have contrasting reproductive and dispersal traits such as planktotrophic/lecithotrophic development in the plankton vs brood development under parental care. Moreover, the abundance-occupancy relationships in these taxonomic subsets had statistically indistinguishable slopes, and elevation. We propose that this lends support to the notion that differences in population structure such as the tendency to form metapopulations may not be primary determinants of the abundance-occupancy pattern in these taxa as proposed by the rescue/metapopulation hypothesis. To test the predictions of the niche-breadth hypothesis we derived values describing the range of sediment grain-sizes exploited by members of two taxonomic subgroups: amphipods and bivalves. We found a weak, statistically non-significant relationship between this niche-breadth measure and occupancy in bivalves which have been shown to respond to grain-size in previous studies, however this was negated after correction for possible artefacts of sampling effort. All other relationships between abundance or occupancy and grain-size range were non-significant. The consistency of the demonstrated abundance-occupancy relationship with those demonstrated in other studies of primarily terrestrial fauna indicates some shared mechanistic explanation, but our data fail to provide support for the two mechanistic hypotheses investigated.
3683491|1. Contrasting patterns of change in the seed bank of natural grasslands are frequently found in response to grazing by domestic herbivores. Here, we studied the hypotheses that a) patterns of change in seed bank density and composition in response to grazing depend on spatial variation in resource availability and productivity, and b) that variation among species in patterns of seed bank response to grazing is linked to differences in species size traits (i.e. size of plant, dispersal unit and seed). 2. Effects of sheep grazing exclusion on the seed bank were followed during five years in a semiarid Mediterranean annual plant community in Israel. Seed bank density and composition were measured in autumn, before the rainy season, inside and outside fenced exclosures in four neighboring topographic sites differing in vegetation characteristics, soil resources and primary productivity: Wadi (dry stream terraces, high productive site), Hilltop, South- and North-facing slopes (less productive sites). 3. Topographic sites differed in seed density (range ca 2500-18000 seed <tex-math>${\rm m^{-2}}$</tex-math>) and in seed bank response to grazing exclusion. Fencing increased seed density by 78, 51 and 18% in the Wadi, South- and North-facing slopes, respectively, but had no effect in the Hilltop. At the species level, grazing exclusion interacted with site conditions in determining species seed bank density, with larger or opposite changes in the high productive Wadi compared to the other less productive sites. 4. Changes in seed bank structure after grazing exclusion were strongly related to species size traits. Grazing exclusion favored species with large size traits in all sites, while seed density of tiny species decreased strongly in the high productive Wadi. Species with medium and small size traits showed lesser or no responses. 5. The size of plants, dispersal units and seeds were strongly correlated to each other, thus confounding the evaluation of the relative importance of each trait in the response of species to grazing and site conditions. We propose that the relative importance of plant size vs seed size in the response to grazing changes with productivity level.
30243129|Heritable variation in plant secondary compounds in dominant species has been hypothesised to effect ecosystem function and the structure of associated assemblages of plants, microbes and animals. The functioning of this extended phenotype in relation to the understorey vegetation composition was tested within a boreal forest system dominated by Pinus sylvestris which contains a range of monoterpenes, the composition of which is largely under genetic control. A variance partitioning approach was adopted to identify the relative importance of tree chemistry, environment, spatial location and tree architecture in controlling the distribution of species in the ground flora under individual trees. The monoterpene composition of the pine needles appeared to contribute significantly to controlling understorey vegetation composition, but was less important than environmental factors, though similar to spatial factors. Thus there appears to be a link between variation in the chemical composition of the single, dominant tree species within this system and the pattern of occurrence and abundance in other species at the same trophic level.
3682914|Lycaena dispar is recorded as an early case of extinction and subsequent re-introduction in the UK. However, repeated establishment attempts have not resulted in self-sustaining populations, including those having taken place at Woodwalton Fen (Cambridgeshire, UK). Earlier studies at Woodwalton Fen showed that the highest mortalities occurred between the egg stage and resumption of larval feeding in spring. This study was designed; firstly, to investigate factors causing field mortality during different larval stages; secondly, to compare survival on Rumex hydrolapathum foodplants in different habitat situations; and thirdly, to compare survival in a natural population (Weerribben, The Netherlands) with the introduced Woodwalton Fen population. Experiments employed exclusion cages in order to examine the relative roles of vertebrate and invertebrate natural enemies, and survival on food-plants in open fen and waterside situations was compared. Results suggest invertebrate predation to be the dominant mortality factor acting upon pre-diapause larvae. Over the winter diapause natural enemies do not have a significant role. However during both these stages losses still occur that are unaccounted for. Extensive winter flooding appears to increase overwintering losses. Vertebrate predators cause significant mortality of post-diapause larvae. No significant difference was found between larval survival on open fen versus waterside plants. Comparison of introduced and native populations reveal that overwintering survival was significantly higher in the latter; potential reasons for this difference are discussed.
3683337|We tested the shifting mosaic steady state theory in a
3683783|Metapopulation theory has generally focused only on the stochastic turn-over rate among populations and assumed that the number and location of suitable habitat patches will remain constant through time. This study combines in a PVA both the deterministic landscape dynamics and the stochastic colonisations and extinctions of populations for the butterfly Lopinga achine in Sweden. With data on occupancy pattern and the rate of habitat change, we built a simulation model and examined five different scenarios with different assumptions of landscape changes for L. achine. If no landscape changes would be expected, around 80 populations are predicted to persist during the next 100 yr. Adding the knowledge that many of the sites are unmanaged and that the host plant will slowly deteriorate as canopies close over, and adding environmental variation and synchrony, showed that the number of populations will decrease to around of 4.3 and 2.8 respectively, with an extinction risk of 34% - quite different from the first scenario based only on the metapopulation model. This study has shown the importance of incorporating both deterministic and stochastic events when making a reliable population viability analysis. Even though one can not expect that the long-term predictions of either occupied patches or extinction risks will be accurate quantitatively, the qualitative implications are correct. The extinction risk will be high if grazing is not applied to more patches than is the case today. The simulations indicate that an absolute minimum of 10-30 top-ranked patches needs to be managed for the persistence of the metapopulation of L. achine in the long term. The same problem of abandoned and overgrowing habitats affects many other threatened species in the European landscape and a similar approach could also be applied to them.
3682951| The position as a potamic or rhithronic species of Hydropsyche exocellata (Trichoptera: Hydropsychinae) was analysed with regard to: i) its metabolism temperature curve and the total amplitude of its respiratory metabolism between 5 and 25C, ii) its distribution in some reaches of the Rhne River basin (France), and Hydropsychinae coexisting species in those reaches to assess its place in the stream continuum. Metabolism data indicated clearly that H. exocellata was a species adapted to the potamon, but distribution data did not confirm metabolism results. The absence of H. exocellata, for instance, from the lower and potamic reaches from the Rhne River itself, as well as its frequent coexistence with H. pellucidula, a well-established near-rhithronic species regarding metabolism, suggests a more complex definition of its position as a potamic species. 
3682781|Retama sphaerocarpa shrubs in semi-arid environments often have a dense understorey of annual and perennial herbs forming so-called "islands of fertility." The effect of the canopy on soil fertility and microclimate and the combined effect of canopy and litter on species diversity and productivity were assessed under Retama sphaerocarpa shrubs in a semi-arid environment in southeast Spain. Soil chemical properties differed significantly among three positions under the canopy, particularly between inner and outer positions. The potential mineralization rate of organic matter was significantly higher in soils from an intermediate position under the canopy than in soils from either the centre and the edge. Soil chemical fertility and estimated soil seed bank were highest also in soil at an intermediate position and lowest in soil from the edge. The understorey flora was favoured by the lower temperature and irradiation and increased soil fertility under the shrubs canopies. Species emerging from the soil seed bank separated clearly into two groups which occupied inner and outer positions under the canopy. Different levels of addition of Retama litter significantly decreased species richness and the number of emerged seedlings. In the field, pots placed near the centre, at an intermediate position and at the edge of the canopy of Retama shrubs differed significantly in species richness and biomass production. Overall, micro-climatic conditions combined with increased chemical fertility of the soil and inhibitory effects of litter to produce a large biomass of herbs at intermediate positions between the centre and the edge of the canopy. The high proportion of litter from annual species in that position increases the mineralization rate and hence nutrient dynamics in a process which also could benefit the shrub.
3683801| The richness of vascular plants in all patches of dry semi-natural grassland within a landscape was investigated. The patch level richness was scaled up to the level of parish to match data on land-use intensity from Iron Age through historical time. Three measures of diversity were obtained: the local species pool, an area-independent diversity measure (the slope of the species number vs log area regression line), and the -diversity. A gradient through the study area in the density of grassland and a corresponding clinal variation in grassland plant species diversity were found. Explanatory models were built by partial least squares regression and conventional stepwise multiple regression. Data on contemporary environmental conditions in the grassland patches and in the parish as a whole were added first, and then data on continuously older times in sequence. In the stepwise regression analyses the variables were also added in the opposite sequence. The results show that contemporary conditions are able to explain the major part of the variation in all diversity measures. Variables concerning former land-use do, however, add significantly to the explanation of variation in local species pool and in the area-independent diversity, but not in -diversity. It is concluded that patterns of land-use intensity from the Iron Age and onwards have contributed significantly to the shaping of local species pools, and thereby the richness of grassland communities. 
3683415|Distribution data concerning 172 ground beetle species derived from 1145 pitfall trap sites in northern England and southern Scotland were used to assess the relationship between species distribution and 12 satellite-derived land cover variables at the regional scale. A number of species were strongly associated with one cover type and negatively with others. The major variation was for preferences for covers in upland or lowland parts of the region. Other distinct preferences for some species were covers such as those at the coast whilst a number of common species showed no strong preference for any cover variable. The synthesis of ground beetle species distribution and satellite-derived cover data is discussed in relation to environmental assessment and change.
3683305|The distribution of trees and shrubs, ferns, land birds, beetles, and butterflies on the Canary Islands were analysed according to the null hypothesis approach. Deviations from the expected number of species were found in the species groups trees and shrubs and Tenebrionid beetles. This was interpreted as the result of deterministic processes influencing the colonisation of the archipelago. In an other analysis the relationship between species similarity and geographical distance between the islands was investigated. It showed that species similarity between the island decreased with distance. The decrease was steepest for Tenebrionid beetles and trees and shrubs so it was concluded that their dispersal ability was lower than in the other species groups.
20696314|Our knowledge on broad-scale patterns of biodiversity, as a basis for biogeographical models and conservation planning, largely rests upon studies on the spatial distribution of vertebrates and plants, neglecting large parts of the world's biodiversity. To reassess the generality of these patterns and better understand spatial diversity distributions of invertebrates, we analyzed patterns of species richness and endemism of a hyperdiverse insect taxon, carabid beetles (ca 11 000 Palaearctic species known), and its cross-taxon congruence with well-studied vertebrates (amphibians, reptiles) and plants across 107 units of the Palaearctic. Based on species accumulation curves, we accounted for completeness of the carabid data by separately examining the western (well-sampled) and eastern (partly less well-sampled) Palaearctic and China (deficient data). For the western Palaearctic, we highlight overall centers of invertebrate, vertebrate and plant diversity. Species richness and endemism of carabids were highly correlated with patterns of especially plant and amphibian diversity across large parts of the Palaearctic. For the well-sampled western Palaearctic, hotspots of diversity integrating invertebrates were located in Italy, Spain and Greece. Only analysis of Chinese provinces yielded low congruence between carabids and plants/vertebrates. However, Chinese carabid diversity is only insufficiently known and China features the highest numbers of annual new descriptions of carabids in the Palaearctic. Even based on the incomplete data, China harbors at least 25% of all Palaearctic carabid species. Our study shows that richness and endemism patterns of highly diverse insects can exhibit high congruence with general large scale patterns of diversity inferred from plants/vertebrates and that hotspots derived from the latter can also include a high diversity of invertebrates. In this regard, China qualifies as an outstanding multi-taxon hotspot of diversity, requiring intense biodiversity research and conservation effort. Our findings extend the limited knowledge on broad-scale invertebrate distributions and allow for a better understanding of diversity patterns across a larger range of the world's biodiversity than usually considered.
3682791|Study of seasonal changes in the occurrence of Eimeria spp. in Microtus agrestis, Clethrionomys glareolus and Microtus oeconomus populations in Finland showed distinct seasonal variation in all three host species; the peaks occurred in both prevalence and density of infection in early autumn. The low prevalence and density of eimerian infections before and during the main crash of vole populations in late winter indicate that these organisms, although potentially pathogenic, do not significantly contribute to the drastic decline in cyclic vole populations.
30243150|A reciprocal transplant experiment was conducted to uncouple genetic and environmental effects on plant fitness of a range-expanding indigenous shrub, Leptospermum scoparium. Patterns of encroachment differed significantly between three regions of Eucalyptus camaldulensis woodland in the Grampians National Park, south-eastern Australia, with greater shrub densities found in the Victoria Valley region. Higher shrub densities in this region are likely due to greater fruit production/shrub, increased field germination and increased early seedling survival. The results of the reciprocal transplant experiment showed increased fitness appears to be due to phenotypic plasticity in response to favourable environmental conditions rather than genotypic variation. Field germination and seedling survival were influenced by region of planting and not seed origin. However, differences in shoot length and biomass of seedlings between the regions were detected after five months of growth in uniform conditions which may indicate genetic differentiation. The results, however, suggest range expansion is partly due to increased plant fitness which is likely a plastic response to favourable environmental conditions, especially soil moisture.
3683176|For group-foraging ungulates, forage is generally widely and relatively evenly dispersed. However, for free-ranging red deer Cervus elaphus supplementary winter feeding provides distinct patches of predictable food. These patches differ in size, but also in temporal distribution and depletion rate. Interference competition is known to increase with increasing spatial clumping (decreasing patch size), but the influence of temporal clumping and the predictability of food occurrence has received much less attention. Therefore in this study we investigated the effects of different degrees of spatial and temporal clumping of food on interference competition during feeding. Patch size was the main parameter influencing participation in feeding as well as interference competition during feeding on the respective patch. Temporal dispersion and the predictability of food occurrence were however, important parameters for the timing of aggressive interactions. Generally, aggression occurs during feeding and increases with decreasing patch size. But when depletion rate was high, food availability was predictably short and the patch occurred predictably (such as hay), middle ranking stags increased aggression already prior to feeding at the respective patch. We suggest that in this way they confirmed hierarchy outside feeding on the quickly depleted patch and as a result gained actual feeding time when feeding on the respective patch. With the patch occurring predictably but varying in size, the number of participating subordinates varied concomitantly with variation in patch size. Subordinates assessed patch profitability and left without having fed when patch size was too small for an efficient participation. When patch size was predictably small enough to be defended exclusively (feed blocks), subordinate stags did not assess profitability each time but did not participate at all in feeding at the respective patch. The relative importance of these various food-related parameters (patch size, depletion rate, predictability) influencing feeding competition and the timing of aggression will vary with group size, rank, alternative food sources, physical characteristics of the food as well as different hierarchy systems of the feeding animals.
30244688|Studying plant invasions along environmental gradients is a promising approach to dissect the relative importance of multiple interacting factors that affect the spread of a species in a new range. Along altitudinal gradients, factors such as propagule pressure, climatic conditions and biotic interactions change simultaneously across rather small geographic scales. Here we investigate the distribution of eight Asteraceae forbs along mountain roads in both their native and introduced ranges in the Valais (southern Swiss Alps) and the Wallowa Mountains (northeastern Oregon, USA). We hypothesised that a lack of adaptation and more limiting propagule pressure at higher altitudes in the new range restricts the altitudinal distribution of aliens relative to the native range. However, all but one of the species reached the same or even a higher altitude in the new range. Thus neither the need to adapt to changing climatic conditions nor lower propagule pressure at higher altitudes appears to have prevented the altitudinal spread of introduced populations. We found clear differences between regions in the relative occurrence of alien species in ruderal sites compared to roadsides, and in the degree of invasion away from the roadside, presumably reflecting differences in disturbance patterns between regions. Whilst the upper altitudinal limits of these plant invasions are apparently climatically constrained, factors such as anthropogenic disturbance and competition with native vegetation appear to have greater influence than changing climatic conditions on the distribution of these alien species along altitudinal gradients.
3682780|The significance of predation and aquatic habitat structures to the survivorship of natterjack toad Bufo calamita larvae was investigated by manipulating predator numbers and pond characteristics in a series of replicated semi-natural pools over three consecutive years. Two species of fish (common carp Cyprinus carpio and perch Perca fluviatilis) increased the survival of small tadpoles severalfold by selectively consuming predatory invertebrates, but a third species of fish (rudd Scardinius erythrophthalmus) devoured tadpoles and invertebrates indiscriminately. Survival of larger tadpoles later in larval development was less affected by the reduction of invertebrate predation pressure from carp and perch, probably because abiotic factors (pond desiccation and anoxia) were stronger agents of tadpole mortality. In ponds of low pH (ca 4.5) there was greatly increased spawn mortality and reduced tadpole growth rates but no significant change in tadpole predation compared with circumneutral controls. Neutralisation of acid ponds to pH 7 by addition of Ca( OH)
3683293|Spatio-temporal variations in the structure, density, biomass and production rates of fish were assessed in the neotropical River Ubatiba (Serra do Mar, southeast Brazil). Electrofishing techniques and the length-frequency method were shown to be reliable for the assessment of fish numbers and production rates in these running waters of medium conductivity. Eighteen fish species of small size and prolonged spawning period were broadly distributed throughout the river catchment. Over the year, the assemblage structure was persistent along the river. Water column omnivore and algae/detritivore species dominated in density (
3683250|Pitfalls and soil heat extraction were used to sample Carabidae in recently felled (1-4 yr from felling), young (5-22 yr after planting), and old plantations (42-63 yr after planting) of Picea sitchensis in northern England. Pitfall catches were useful in recording swift-running species, present at low densities, and a DCA ordination based on the pitfall catches indicated major distribution changes during the plantation cycle. Soil extractions allowed estimation of minimum densities of the abundant species and indicated that both diversity and density were highest in young plantations and lowest in the old plantations. The flightless Trechus obtusus (3.8 mm) was the most abundant species in the soil samples and its population density did not differ significantly between the three stages in the forestry cycle. The winged, highly surface-active species that were early colonisers of clear felled sites and formed a high proportion of the pitfall catch were present at low densities only. The peak in carabid density and diversity coincided with the stage at which the ground flora was most diverse (in both species and structure) and the densities of other soil surface macro-invertebrates were highest. The high carabid density in the young plantations coincided with a the presence of a relatively high proportion of larger carabids (>5.9 mm) and it is suggested that the increased carabid biomass m
3683186|Invertebrate communities were monitored in a controlled sheep grazing experiment on ex-arable land on limestone and in nearby older calcicolous grasslands. Results for vacuum sampling of Heteroptera and herbivorous Coleoptera are presented and compared with the responses of spiders, leafhoppers and leaf-miners. Invertebrate groups differed in their responses to grazing and grassland age in terms of species diversity, abundance, variability over time and the development of a specific fauna on short turf. Leaf-miner assemblies were most strongly determined by the effects of grazing on plant species composition, while spiders' responses could largely be explained by the effects of grazing on plant architecture. Spider species simply accumulated over time, whilst leaf-miners were the most labile group. Spiders, leaf-miners and leafhoppers all contained some common species restricted to old grasslands, whilst herbivorous Coleoptera and Heteroptera did not. No single group demonstrated the full range of invertebrate responses. Spiders, leafhoppers and leaf-miners each showed useful features as "indicator groups", but more than one group should be chosen for study in the context of particular research projects.
30244528|The distribution of the bilby Macrotis lagotis was assessed in the Tanami Desert using stratified random plots, repetitively sampled transects, aerial survey transects, and ground truth plots. Compared to a previous assessment of distribution, the extent of occurrence has changed little in the last 20 yr. However, the area of occupancy is small relative to the extent of occurrence and <25% of the current geographic range has bilby sign <20 km apart. Generalised linear modelling was used to determine the strength of association between bilby occurrence and habitat variables and identify refugia characteristics. Four competing candidate models were examined to determine whether bilby occurrence associated significantly with productive substrates and introduced herbivores, the distribution of key predator species, the pattern of fire, and climatic gradients including rainfall and temperature. For the entire study area, bilby presence associated most strongly with variables of mean annual rainfall, substrate type and the probability of dingo occurrence. Proximity to recently burnt habitat formed a significant predictor of bilby occurrence in a model derived for a reduced part of the study area where most sign was found. The work suggested that the current frameworks underpinning understanding of biotic distributions in arid Australia are deficient, and that climatic gradients, lateritic and rocky systems, and predators need to be incorporated into our thinking in the future. The extent of occurrence based on outlier records from opportunistic reports provided a misleading indication of the true status of the bilby.
30244679|Different approaches can be used to model the spread of invasive species. Here we demonstrate the use of survival regression, an approach that can be used to study a variety of events, not just death, to model the time to colonization. The advantage of survival regression to study colonisation of new areas is that information on those areas that have not been invaded by the end of a study can be included in the analysis, thus potentially increasing the accuracy of parameter estimation. We use proportional hazards regression (PHR; a type of survival regression) to model the spread of the common waxbill Estrilda astrild in Portugal. The species invaded Portugal in two peaks of invasion between 1964 and 1999. We built a PHR model with the information available up to the first invasion peak, then used this model to predict the pattern of invasion in the second peak. PHR had useful forecasting capabilities: areas that were actually colonised by 1999 had significantly higher hazards of colonization based on information from the first wave of invasion than areas that were not colonised. We then built a final model of expansion of the common waxbill that combined all available data up to 1999. Among climate variables, the most important predictor of colonization was temperature, followed by relative humidity. We used this model to estimate the invasion potential of the species under climate change scenarios, observing that an increase of 1C in mean annual temperature increased the risk of a new invasion by 47%. Our analyses suggest that survival regression may be a useful tool for studying the geographical spread of invasive species. However, PHR was conceived as a descriptive technique rather than as a predictive tool, and thus further research is needed to empirically test the predictive capabilities of PHR.
3683620|In community ecology, contrasting theories suggest that the distribution and abundance of species, and thus the composition of assemblages, are influenced by i) environmental gradients, or ii) contagious biotic processes such as predation, competition, dispersal and disease. In the former case, sites with similar environments would tend to support similar assemblages, while in the latter, geographically proximate sites would tend to support more similar assemblages than widely separated sites. I investigated the relative influence of environmental variables and spatial position on the composition of frog assemblages at forest streams in sub-tropical eastern Australia using redundancy analysis (RDA) and partial RDA. Data on the maximum abundance of the frog species at 65 survey sites were transformed such that RDA would yield the Hellinger distance between sites. The following analysis identified 11 environmental variables that explained 45% of the variation in the abundance of species at the survey sites (the species matrix), as a proportion of total variance. The geographic co-ordinates of the survey sites accounted for 12%, while the environmental and spatial variables combined accounted for 47% of the variation in the species matrix. Partial redundancy analysis indicated that of the explained variation, 74% was purely environmental, 5% was purely spatial and 21% was spatial environmental variation. This study is the first to quantify the relative influence of environmental and spatial variables on the composition of amphibian assemblages. It provides support for both the environmental control model and the biotic control model of species' distributions and assemblage composition, although environmental variables appear to have the greater effect at this scale of analysis.
3683693|In order to assess changes in the community structure of ectomycorrhizal fungi across the tree line, data on distributions of fungi and their host plants, as well as on edaphic factors and stand age, were collected at two montane sites in the Front Range of the Canadian Rockies. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was used to explore relationships between fungal species composition and environmental factors. Richness and diversity of ectomycorrhizal fungi decreased with elevation, in spite of the fact that host plant diversity was highest at the ecotone between the subalpine forest and the alpine zone. Both host plant distribution and edaphic factors were important in explaining the observed changes in fungal species diversity and composition. The majority of ectomycorrhizal fungi found in the subalpine forest and at the ecotone were conifer associates, while a large proportion of those in the alpine zone were non-host specific and able to form mycorrhizae with both angiosperms and gymnosperms. The abundance of non-host specific fungi in the alpine zone is expected to provide a favorable environment for the establishment of conifer seedlings above the present tree line.
3683160|Studies were conducted to examine the effects of sand burial on the growth and reproduction of Cakile edentula under controlled greenhouse conditions. Sand burial enhanced both the vegetative growth and reproduction of plants. Within one week after burial, plants showed a significant increase in the length of the internode just below the current sand surface. This response was not mediated by the dark conditions imposed by sand burial. About two weeks after burial, adventitious roots grew upwards into the deposited sand. Plants buried in washed sand did not differ in their dry weight whereas those buried in unwashed sand were significantly taller, produced greater biomass and larger number of seeds per plant than control. However, the mean mass per fruit and per seed were not altered. The frequency distribution of fruit and seed was only slightly modified by the burial treatments.
3683846|A positive relationship between regional distribution and local abundance of species is almost ubiquitous macroecological pattern, yet the mechanisms behind this pattern remain poorly understood. I tested for the relationship between regional distribution and local abundance of stream insect species in a boreal drainage system, with a specific aim to examine if this relationship follows the mechanistic basis of either the niche-based (niche breadth and niche position) or metapopulation models. There was a positive relationship between regional distribution and local abundance of stream insects, and there also were significant relationships between distribution/abundance and niche breadth or niche position. These results thus suggest that widely distributed species tend to be, on average, locally more abundant, have wider niches and lower marginality of niche position with regard to environmental factors than species that have more restricted distributions. However, although significant, there was much unexplained variability around these relationships, suggesting that other mechanisms (e.g. metapopulation dynamics) besides differences in species' niches are likely to affect the distribution and abundance of stream insects, at least within a drainage system. The results thus showed that 1) although niche position was more consistently related to the positive distribution-abundance relationship, ecologists should not abandon niche breadth as a potential mechanism behind this relationship, and 2) that several mechanisms are likely to act in concert in determining the relationship between distribution and abundance of species.
30243203|In the face of accelerating biodiversity loss and limited data, species distribution models - which statistically capture and predict species' occurrences based on environmental correlates - are increasingly used to inform conservation strategies. Additionally, distribution models and their fit provide insights on the broad-scale environmental niche of species. To investigate whether the performance of such models varies with species' ecological characteristics, we examined distribution models for 1329 bird species in southern and eastern Africa. The models were constructed at two spatial resolutions with both logistic and autologistic regression. Satellite-derived environmental indices served as predictors, and model accuracy was assessed with three metrics: sensitivity, specificity and the area under the curve (AUC) of receiver operating characteristics plots. We then determined the relationship between each measure of accuracy and ten ecological species characteristics using generalised linear models. Among the ecological traits tested, species' range size, migratory status, affinity for wetlands and endemism proved most influential on the performance of distribution models. The number of habitat types frequented (habitat tolerance), trophic rank, body mass, preferred habitat structure and association with sub-resolution habitats also showed some effect. In contrast, conservation status made no significant impact. These findings did not differ from one spatial resolution to the next. Our analyses thus provide conservation scientists and resource managers with a rule of thumb that helps distinguish, on the basis of ecological traits, between species whose occurrence is reliably or less reliably predicted by distribution models. Reasonably accurate distribution models should, however, be attainable for most species, because the influence ecological traits bore on model performance was only limited. These results suggest that none of the ecological traits tested provides an obvious correlate for environmental niche breadth or intra-specific niche differentiation.
3683501|Open Top Chambers (OTCs) were used to measure impacts of predicted global warming on the structure of the invertebrate community of a Dryas octopetala heath in West Spitsbergen. Results from the OTC experiment were compared with natural variation in invertebrate community structure along a snowmelt transect through similar vegetation up the adjacent hillside. Changes along this transect represent the natural response of the invertebrate community to progressively longer and potentially warmer and drier growing seasons. Using MANOVA, ANOVA, Linear Discriminant Analysis and  <sup>2</sup> tests, significant differences in community composition were found between OTCs and controls and among stations along the transect. Numbers of cryptostigmatic and predatory mites tended to be higher in the warmer OTC treatment but numbers of the aphid Acyrthosiphon svalbardicum, hymenopterous parasitoids, Symphyta larvae, and weevils were higher in control plots. Most Collembola, including Hypogastrura tullbergi, Lepidocyrtus lignorum and Isotoma anglicana, followed a similar trend to the aphid, but Folsomia bisetosa was more abundant in the OTC treatment. Trends along the transect showed clear parallels with the OTC experiment. However, mite species, particularly Diapterobates notatus, tended to increase in numbers under warming, with several species collectively increasing at the earlier exposed transect stations. Overall, the results suggest that the composition and structure of Arctic invertebrate communities associated with Dryas will change significantly under global warming.
3682920|We present systematic arguments for the necessity of field survey in conservation biology. Preservation of biological diversity has become a major challenge in conservation biology, but to comprehend diversity, ecologists have to obtain information on what units the 'diversity' of different parts of the world consists of, where these units are, and how they respond to natural and human-induced environmental change. To reach this end, systematic survey procedures need to be developed that incorporate data collecting, data analysis and conclusions about distributional patterns as well as management recommendations into an iterative process that is corrected as experience accumulates. The appropriate survey design depends on the task and needs to be fixed separately in each case; developing long-term observational systems is no less challenging a task than developing experimental systems in laboratory research, or modeling systems in theoretical research. We conclude the paper with five principles of ecological survey. A common denominator of these principles is the need to make explicit decisions at each step so that errors and insufficiences can be corrected later.
3683367|Habitat patches vary as a function of an organism's perception. The response of species to patch mosaic may depend on the scale of observation by which the spatial pattern is perceived. A hierarchical view of landscapes is proposed to define the optimal grain of landscape affecting soil fauna (Collembola). A multilevel approach is developed to quantify the landscape grain based on the concept of contrast, that is, the magnitude of difference in measures across a given boundary between adjacent patch types. An image segmentation procedure was firstly applied to satellite images to detect edges, and this defines "homogeneous" regions at multiple contrast levels. Spatial features (number of patches, diversity of patches and edge length) were then derived from segmented images to characterise the spatial pattern that surrounds Collembola sampling sites. These landscape descriptors were computed at different levels of contrast and at three spatial scales. The statistical dependence between species occurrence and landscape descriptors was assessed by means of the Mantel test. Biodiversity, estimated by species richness and the number of endemic species, was analysed by stepwise multiple linear regression. The multilevel approach permitted a definition of the landscape units based on the response of the assemblage to landscape heterogeneity. The effect of landscape heterogeneity was especially evident on species composition and on endemic richness when patches are defined at fine grain. The heterogeneity descriptor "number of patches", calculated at the optimal contrast level, explained 72% of the endemic richness variance. This spatial feature constituted a reliable inverse indicator of endemic richness that was extrapolated to the pixels of the image providing a spatial model.
30243214|Models that describe the mechanisms responsible for insular patterns of species richness include the equilibrium theory of island biogeography and the nonequilibrium vicariance model. The relative importance of dispersal or vicariance in structuring insular distribution patterns can be inferred from these models. Predictions of the alternative models were tested for boreal mammals in the American Southwest. Age of mountaintop islands of boreal habitat was determined by constructing a geographic cladogram based on characteristics of intervening valley barriers. Other independent variables included area and isolation of mountaintop islands. Island age was the most important predictor of species richness. In contrast with previous studies of species richness patterns in this system, these results supported the nonequilibrium vicariance model, which indicates that vicariance has been the primary determinant of species distribution patterns in this system.
3682857|Population level studies of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) need to incorporate clinal variation in FA for proper sampling methodologies to be employed to ensure appropriate comparisons between populations are made. FA of adult acorn barnacles, Semibalanus balanoides, in the intertidal zone offers an excellent model system for looking for such variation. This study looked at the magnitude of FA of S. balanoides at each of three vertical heights in the barnacle zone, in two sites on the Isle of Mull, Scotland. Unsigned FA of width of sutures between tergal and scutal plates, after correcting for size and numbers of others touched, showed significant variation across the upper, mid and lower barnacle zone. Specifically, this was a U-shaped pattern, with individuals in the mid-zone being more symmetrical than those at the two extremes. It is proposed that high levels of FA in the upper zone are due to exposure stresses, while biotic factors such as competition impose developmental stress in the lower zone.
3683230|Most insular communities exhibit nestedness, with the species assemblages of the more depauperate islands constituting subsets of those of the richer. Several methods for the estimation and evaluation of nestedness have been developed during the last fifteen years. In this paper we use two of the more recent and elaborate methods, namely the "temperature" method of Atmar and Patterson and the "departures" method of Lomolino, in order to investigate patterns of nestedness in the distribution of two well studied and speciose animal groups, terrestrial isopods and land snails, in the Kyklades archipelago (Aegean Sea, Greece) that lies between two continental regions. Significant nestedness is present in both species assemblages and, surprisingly, each method gives almost identical levels of nestedness for the two animal groups. Isolation has been found to be more important in producing nestedness in both groups than area, which does not seem to be an important explanatory factor. However, the role of isolation in this case is better understood under an historical perspective, taking into account the complex palaeogeography of the region and the differential departmentalisation of distinct island groups. Additionally, certain metrics of habitat diversity that were included in the analysis were the best explanatory factors of nestedness, indicating a more complex causal pattern that also involves extinction. Since the two methods used are based on different assumptions and have different scopes, their results do not converge. The "temperature" method finds the maximum possible nestedness in an island sorting which does not necessarily lead to plausible biogeographical explanations, while the "departures" method, although more useful in detecting causality, fails to fully evaluate levels of nestedness. Nevertheless, both methods are valuable tools in the exploration of interesting distributional patterns, when this effort is accompanied by a good understanding of historical, ecological and idiosyncratic properties of each particular data set.
20696316|By creating transient patch mosaics, disturbance can influence the dynamics of interacting populations in many ecosystems. In European heathland, traditional land use created such dynamic systems favourable for both early and later successional species. Little empirical evidence is, however, available on the impact of current management on metapopulations occurring in such landscapes. This paper looks at the metapopulation viability of the endangered holoparasite Cuscuta epithymum, a species that typically occurs in early successional stages of recently managed heathlands. We used both observational and experimental data from a 4-yr study to parameterise a spatially explicit metapopulation model. This model explores the impact of demographic characteristics and spatiotemporal landscape patterns created by management events on metapopulation viability. Both occasional long-distance dispersal and dormant seeds are shown to be critical for the long-term survival of C. epithymum in a dynamic heathland landscape subjected to a fixed rotational mowing of 15 yr. A relatively high management frequency (<15 yr between two consecutive mowing events) appeared to be necessary to sustain a viable C. epithymum metapopulation. When there is a longer interval between management events, grazing can counterbalance the negative effects of vegetation succession. Our results indicate that small-scale cyclical management events combined with extensive grazing are the most appropriate management strategy to maintain viable populations of C. epithymum instead of the current large-scale management events. Our results further emphasise the importance of incorporating both spatiotemporal patch availability and key demographic characteristics, especially seed banks, for a realistic view of metapopulation dynamics in disturbed landscapes. This study clearly demonstrates the usefulness of metapopulation models to understand the impact of management events and to provide new ecological insights into processes acting at a landscape scale.
3683287|Local population abundance often declines with increasing distance from the center of the species' geographic range. This pattern has been hypothesized to parallel the decline in the probability of encountering favorable niche requirements, implying that local abundance is primarily a reflection of local environmental conditions. In this study we evaluate a potential corollary of this hypothesis. We postulate that local conditions that depress abundance are also likely to perturb development. Accordingly, we predicted that spatial patterns in abundance should be mirrored by spatial patterns of developmental instability. To test this prediction we compared 38 contemporary and Pleistocene populations, belonging to 30 mollusc species. Samples were collected at a single site along the Gulf of California, differentially located in relation to the center of each species' geographic range. We identified, as boundaries to triangular bivariate distributions, a negative relationship between developmental instability and relative abundance, and a positive relationship between instability and relative distance from the center of the range. Overall, however, the observed pattern deviated from the expected in that the majority of low-abundance peripheral populations exhibit relatively low levels of developmental instability.
3682938|Global warming or climate change is known to have many effects on plants, but there has been relatively little research on global warming and animals, partly because too few long-term studies have been carried out. In northern areas, mean temperature is believed to be rising, and indeed during the last decades mean spring temperatures in Finnish Lapland have increased. In 1975-1993, mean air temperature during the main egg-laying period of a pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca population correlated positively and significantly with mean egg volume of that population. Since larger eggs enjoy improved hatching success, global warming may alter birds' reproductive strategies, because warmer weather may allow females to invest more resources in reproduction. This in turn may help birds rapidly conquer new areas when they become available and compensate for rising mortality rates to be expected elsewhere where warming means desiccation.
3682852|Morphological and molecular surveys of within-island geographic variation in lizards have revealed patterns of geographic variation that reflect both population vicariance and in situ selection-mediated responses to the ecological heterogeneity of the islands. This study tested different models of differentiation in a continental species, the agamid Agama impalearis, in which spatial separation is much greater than that in island species. Patterns of among-site differentiation in morphology were described and a character-resampling technique used to investigate their robustness. Putative causes were evaluated by testing multivariate patterns of differentiation against models based on historical and present-day effects using matrix association randomization tests. This strongly suggested the action of both vicariance/secondary contact and current climatic conditions in shaping the patterns of morphological variation. The former appears to be the result of range contraction into refugia separated by the Atlas mountain range during glacial conditions, with subsequent secondary contact during warmer interglacial periods. Scalation showed a very clear association with geographic difference in thermal regime, even after the vicariance/gene-flow induced non-independence had been taken into account. This latter finding indicates that patterns observed in other lizards are quite general.
3683037|Methods for estimating 'typical' asymptotic body size in populations of the North African agamid Agama impalearis using individuals of undetermined age were investigated, and the pattern of geographic variation in this characteristic described and tested against simple models based on putative causes. Resampling of a large single-site data set indicated that use of the sample mean led to substantial underestimation of asymptotic size while use of the largest animal per sample led to overestimation, on average. The 80th percentile provided the most accurate estimate of asymptotic size and, compared with the largest individual per sample, had low variance, showed low dependence on sample size and was amenable to bootstrap estimation of confidence intervals. A clear pattern of geographic variation in asymptotic size was evident across Morocco: animals were smallest in the north and east and largest in the southwest. This pattern was discordant with previously-described patterns of variation in scalation and size-free body dimensions and, unlike these characteristics, could not be explained by a model based on secondary contact of previously vicariant populations. Among-site differentiation was strongly associated with a model based on a proxy of current potential gene flow between sites, supporting an alternative in situ differentiation hypothesis based on the combined effects of isolation-by-distance and the dispersal barrier provided by the higher parts of the Atlas mountain range. Possible reasons for the discordance between the pattern of variation in body size and other morphological characteristics are discussed
30244548|Fruit abundance is a critical factor in ecological studies of tropical forest animals and plants, but difficult to measure at large spatial scales. We tried to estimate spatial variation in fruit abundance on a relatively large spatial scale using low altitude, high-resolution aerial photography. We measured fruit production for all 555 individuals of the arborescent palm Astrocaryum standleyanum across 25 ha of mapped tropical moist forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, by visually counting fruits from the ground. Simultaneously, we used high-resolution aerial photographs to map sun-exposed crowns of the palm across the same area, which were then linked to ground-mapped stems. First, we verified that the fruit crop size of individual trees was positively associated with both crown presence on aerial photos and crown area visible on aerial photos. Then, we determined how well spatial variation in Astrocaryum fruit density across the study area was predicted by spatial densities of photo-detected crowns and crown area compared to spatial densities of ground-mapped stems and stem diameters. We found a positive association of fruit crop size with crown visibility on aerial photographs. Although representing just one third of all individuals in the study area, photo-detected crowns represented 57% of all fruits produced. The spatial pattern of photo-detected crowns was strongly correlated with the spatial pattern of fruit abundance based on direct fruit counts, and correctly showed the areas with the highest and lowest fruit abundances. The spatial density of photo-detected crowns predicted spatial variation in fruit abundance equally well as did the spatial density of ground-mapped stems. Photo-detected crown area did not yield a better prediction. Our study indicates that remote sensing of crowns can be a reliable and cost-effective method for estimating spatial variation in fruit abundance across large areas for highly distinctive canopy species. Our study is also among the few to provide empirical evidence for a positive relationship between crown exposure of forest trees and fruit production.
30244557|Global change increases both the number of threatened species and the impacts of invasives. These two problems are sometimes assumed to be opposite sides of the same coin, with invasive species having the opposite characteristics of endangered species. However, the validity of this assumption has never been tested. We analysed 20 life-history and other traits of all European and North American freshwater fish and birds. For these 1813 species, we compared the determinants of invasion success and IUCN-threat status and found that traits favouring invasion are not simply the opposite of those that favour endangerment. The size and life history of species are correlated more strongly with threat status than invasiveness. On the other hand, association with humans is the best predictor of invasiveness but is not correlated with threat status. Thus, the rise of invaders is caused by different aspects of global change than the imperilment of endangered species.
3683253|The ground beetle Pterostichus melanarius (Coleoptera, Carabidae), of European origin, is abundant and wide-spread in the northern United States and southern Canada. Three field enclosures were used in a four-year experiment in Alberta, Canada, to examine whether the species is able to establish in natural aspen-poplar forest, and to test the hypothesis that it has an adverse effect on the native carabid assemblage. After introduction to the enclosures P. melanarius maintained breeding populations in them, establishing that the forest is suitable habitat for the species, and suggesting that the species will eventually invade from nearby populations. Pterostichus melanarius had no negative effect on population size or body mass of the native carabid species. However, the two most abundant native species (Ptero-stichus adstrictus and P. pensylvanicus) appeared to be more active (measured as escape rate) in compartments where they co-occurred with P. melanarius. Although the three enclosures were just a few metres apart, one of them consistently yielded the highest densities of all carabid species. This difference was correlated with high abundance of earthworms and low litter accumulation. Relatively low densities of P. melanarius may explain the lack of negative interspecific interactions in forests, although such effects are suggested by data from urban and agricultural environments where P. melanarius is more abundant.
3683296|During winter in the Arctic, plant litter is scoured from exposed hills and ridges by wind and snow and is redistributed to other portions of the landscape. The aim of this research was to quantify the physical and biological consequences of this litter redistribution. Litter biomass accumulation was ten times greater in areas of high deposition (e.g., snow drifts) than in areas of low deposition. Spring snow melt was delayed by several days and soils were cooler throughout the growing season and throughout winter in areas of increased litter deposition than areas with no litter. Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) was reduced to near zero with small accumulations of litter. Annual C and N inputs from allochthonous litter were 143 g C m
30243213|We examined the community-environment relationships of lotic macroinvertebrates in near-pristine headwater streams, and the correlation between patterns in taxonomic and functional structure at two regional extents. The across-ecoregion scale comprised five ecoregions spanning all of Finland, while the within-ecoregion scale comprised of north boreal and middle boreal ecoregions. We expected that taxonomic structure should exhibit stronger relationships than functional structure to spatial gradients, while the reverse should be true for local environmental factors. We found some support for this notion, because spatial variables were marginally more important for taxonomic than functional structure. Furthermore, within the two ecoregions, local environmental variables were slightly more important for functional than taxonomic structure. Geographical location (i.e. spatial variables) was more influential at the across-ecoregions extent than within the two ecoregions. Largely the same local environmental variables accounted for variation in both taxonomic and functional structure, including water pH, nutrients, colour, and stream size. Similar responses to local environmental features likely contributed to the significant correlation between patterns in taxonomic and functional structure. It has been suggested that functional traits may be rather insensitive to natural variation, yet our functional categorization showed distinct variation along local environmental, catchment, and spatial gradients across nearpristine streams. Thus, natural ecological filters should be accounted for prior to the examination of the effects of anthropogenic filters on stream macroinvertebrate community composition.
30243194|Variation in immune responses is an important part of life history variation. When correlations between multiple immune measures are reported, studies report different patterns. I tested whether the correlation between levels of immune response was consistent across a species range. The ability of tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor to simultaneously produce immune responses to both a humoral immune response and T-cell mediated local inflammation to PHA was tested at three sites that span the breeding range. Females in Tennessee maintained stronger PHA responses than did females in either New York or Alaska. In New York and Alaska, individuals that produced strong PHA responses produced low levels of antibodies to a humoral challenge of sheep red blood cells (SRBC). However, in Tennessee, individuals that showed strong local PHA inflammation also mounted strong responses to SRBC. Increasing daily daytime temperatures led to increased PHA response, but there were no differences in the effect of temperature among sites. These results indicate spatial and/or temporal variation occurs in the ability to produce multiple immune responses simultaneously; this pattern suggests important geographic (or temporal) differences in factors driving investment in immune activity. In addition, these results suggest that studies extrapolating results across populations should be careful to consider geographic variation in immune activity.
3683092|The ant faunas of three remote Polynesian islands were censused using hand collecting techniques. Known ant species richnesses were increased by factors of 2.3, 3.7, and 4.3, and total species richnesses were estimated with a first-order jackknife estimator. The large increase in species numbers is apparently due to inadequate earlier censuses (which missed localized and cryptic species) rather than recent immigrations. Tests of species associations revealed more positive than negative interactions among species, on both a pairwise and community-wide basis. There is no evidence that ant species on these islands exclude each other from islands or from communities within islands, with the exception of three very aggressive species. A multiple regression analysis of known ant species richness against sampling effort and area for Polynesian islands which have been differentially censused for ants by various collectors revealed sampling effort was highly significant, while area was not significant, in explaining variation in known ant species numbers. On Pacific islands that have been surveyed relatively thoroughly for ants, multiple regression analyses of known ant species richness on area and distance showed that area was always highly significant, but distance was only marginally significant (depending on the regression model used). Thus remote Polynesian islands appear neither to be as depauperate as previously thought in numbers of ant species present, nor possess an unusual potential for evolutionary increase in species numbers.
3683616|Ecological niche modeling (ENM) is an effective tool for providing innovative insights to questions in evolution, ecology and conservation. As environmental datasets accumulate, modelers need to evaluate the relative merit of different types of data for ENM. We used three alternative environmental data sets: climatic data, remote-sensing data (Normalized Difference Vegetation Index), and elevation data, to model the distribution of six bird species of the genus Grallaria in the Ecuadorian Andes. We assessed the performance of models created with each environmental data set and all possible combinations by comparing the geographic predictions of our models with detailed maps developed by expert ornithologists. Results varied depending on the specific measure of performance. Models including climate variables performed relatively well across most measures, whereas models using only NDVI performed poorly. Elevation based models were relatively good at predicting most sites of expected occurrence but showed a high over-prediction error. Combinations of data sets usually increased the performance of the models, but not significantly. Our results highlight the importance of including climatic variables in ENM and the simultaneous use of various data sets when possible. This strategy attenuates the effects of specific variables that decrease model performance. Remote-sensing data, such as NDVI, should be used with caution in topographically complex regions with heavy cloud-cover. Nonetheless, remote-sensing data have the potential to improve ENM. Finally, we suggest a priori designation of modeling purposes to define specific performance measures accordingly.
3683409|We discovered, using transfer functions, that climatic changes in the Atlantic control the abundance of Temora longicornis, a dominant pelagic copepod of the Baltic Sea. The seawater salinity was increasing and copepod numbers were high from 1960s up to 1970s. Then the freshwater runoff started to increase, which resulted in decreasing salinities and abundance of the copepod. At the end of 1990s, runoffs remained at a high level, and the decrease of surface salinities and Temora leveled off. Due to time lags between variables studied, we also make predictions of changes expectable in early 2000s. The total freshwater runoff to the Baltic Sea followed the North Atlantic Oscillation with an immediate lag. Salinity followed the runoff non-linearly with a lag of 4-9 months. Temora longicornis followed the salinity with a lag of 1-3 months. Predicted abundance of T. longicornis will remain low implicating poor feeding conditions for planktivores. Our study points out the importance of physical factors in control of pelagic environments compared to ecological interactions, such as top-down and bottom-up.
3683051|Eurasian pine martens are considered habitat specialists, associated primarily with mature stands of mesic mixed wood forest habitats, and avoid areas without overhead cover. The species is found throughout the temperate and boreal regions of the continent but on the Mediterranean island of Minorca, introduced pine martens thrive in a competitor- and predator-free environment. I test the prediction that because of evolved prey-capture and predator avoidance strategies, Minorcan martens should select habitats most similar to temperate and northern parts of their range. Scat index routes were used to quantify pine marten habitat selection. Marten did not demonstrate any habitat type preferences although observed use of pine forests and coastal shru-blands was slighly greater than expected. Marten were indifferent to overhead cover, whereas mesic sites and areas of tall, high shrub density were favored. Small mammal trap indices and preferred prey suggested that martens commonly used non-forested areas. My results demonstrated that on Minorca, pine martens were habitat generalists. In the absence of predators, open non-forested habitats were equally important to pine marten as were forested ones.
3683376|This study investigates for the first time the tardigrade fauna in a variety of different mosses from a coniferous forest and an adjacent clear-cut area in southern Sweden. Tardigrades were found in a majority of the samples. Sixteen species were recorded, of which the cosmopolitan species Macrobiotus hufelandi was the far most common. Some mosses, particularly species with "wefts" growth form, contained more tardigrades than other mosses, indicating that growth form may have an impact on tardigrade abundance. Mosses of the same species collected from a forest and from a clear-cut, respectively, did not show a general trend in the overall abundance of tardigrades, but the forest tended to contain more species. Five species of tardigrades (Murrayon dianae, Isohypsibius sattleri, Platicrista angustata, Diphascon belgicae and Diphascon pingue) never previously reported from Sweden were recorded.
3682868|The number of spring staging brent geese on the salt marshes of the Dutch island of Schiermonnikoog increased from about 1500 individuals in the late 1960s to > 4000 in the late 1970s. Since then, numbers on Schiermonnikoog have levelled off, while the world population continued to increase. Although the extent of salt-marsh area on the island has dramatically increased over the past 20 yr, the number of brent geese on Schiermonnikoog was rather constant in this period. We hypothesise that the number of geese did not increase because of successional changes in the vegetation. On the basis of 24 yr of counts, we show that geese had to give up older parts of the marsh. Over time, tall growing species like the shrub Atriplex portulacoides have invaded, making the marsh unsuitable for goose grazing. Newly developed marsh, however, was readily exploited by the geese. The area of older salt marsh lost due to succession was almost exactly compensated for by the development of new feeding grounds. Geese which persistently utilised the older marsh were faced with a high proportion of non-preferred species, although they still managed to assemble a diet largely composed of preferred plant species. In the older marsh, a significant reduction in the time spent foraging was also observed. We conclude that brent geese are largely excluded as vegetation succession progresses. Numbers on the island as a whole, however, are sustained due to the dynamic nature of the island. If development of new salt marshes were to be prevented, geese would be forced to abandon the salt marsh.
30244623|Wildlife disease is recognized as a burgeoning threat to imperiled species and aspects of host and vector community ecology have been shown to have significant effects on disease dynamics. The black-tailed prairie dog is a species of conservation concern that is highly susceptible to plague, a flea-transmitted disease. Prairie dogs (Cynomys) alter the grassland communities in which they exist and have been shown to affect populations of small rodents, which are purported disease reservoirs. To explore potential ecological effects of black-tailed prairie dogs on plague dynamics, we quantified flea occurrence patterns on small mammals in the presence and absence of prairie dogs at 8 study areas across their geographic range. Small mammals sampled from prairie dog colonies showed significantly higher flea prevalence, flea abundance, and relative flea species richness than those sampled from off-colony sites. Successful plague transmission likely is dependent on high prevalence and abundance of fleas that can serve as competent vectors. Prairie dogs may therefore facilitate the maintenance of plague by increasing flea occurrence on potential plague reservoir species. Our data demonstrate the previously unreported ecological influence of prairie dogs on vector species assemblages, which could influence disease dynamics.
3683687|We analyzed data on presence or absence of 156 vascular plant species on 14 islets of the Cabrera National Park archipelago and found a significant correlation between rat presence and floristic composition. By contrast, island area, island height, and storm exposition seem to have no effect on species composition. We chose a subset of plants favoured or depressed by rat presence for a non-linear principal component analysis and evaluated successfully the usefulness of such a subset in predicting rat presence using a randomization method. To optimally allocate resources, rat eradication campaigns should be focused in islets displaying rat-free vegetation type.
3683689|Two populations of the lichen Lobaria pulmonaria, growing on aspens and goat willows in 12 and
3683720|Diplotaxis harra is a common annual species in the desert of Egypt. The investigated population was located in Wadi Hof near Helwan city. Additional water in relatively wet years cause these ephemeral plants to live longer and become perennials. The species has ephemeral, modular and coppiced life-cycles and may shift from a r- to a K-selected strategy. The germinable seed bank represented 15.6% of the total seed rain, out of which only 0.03% established as adult plants. About 72.7% of the adult plants were ephemeral, 27.0% modular and 0.3% coppiced plants. The highest contribution of the seed rain came from modular plants and the lowest contribution from coppiced plants. The survivorship curve of the coppiced plants exhibited a combination of Deevey type I and III curves. The ephemeral and modular plants showed steep curves. In contrast to ephemeral plants, the coppiced plants attained the highest reproductive value and the lowest reproductive effort, while the modular plants demonstrated intermediate values. The active phenological cycle started earlier in coppiced plants than in the modular and ephemeral plants. The period from the start of vegetative growth to shoot-die back extends from mid-December to early June in coppiced plants, from February to May in modular plants, and from late February to early May in ephemeral plants. The living stumps of the coppiced plants remained dormant during summer and autumn months. Seeds collected from coppiced plants attained high germinability and viability, while those from ephemeral and modular plants attained low values. Seed longevity was higher in the modular plants (> 10 yr) than in seeds of ephemeral and coppiced plants (7-8 yr). The high energy content of the seeds produced from different cohorts over ten years of storage enabled the population to maximize the germinability, viability and longevity of seeds despite the unpredictable environment. The potential annual behaviour of D. harra is mainly attained by the persistence of viable seed bank and root-shoot stock. The ability to shift from a r- to a K-selected life-cycle, phenological variations among the different cohorts of the population, variations in seed longevity and energy content strengthen intra-population interactions.
3683650|Wild bee communities were studied on one- to five-year-old set-aside fields with naturally developed vegetation (n = 20), and old orchard meadows (n = 4) to analyse effects of secondary succession on species diversity, resource use and associated life history traits. General theory predicts a steady increase of species richness with age of succession. In contrast, we found a first maximum in species richness of bees on two-year-old set-aside fields and a second on old meadows. Successional changes of bee communities were related to changes of vegetation. The transition from pioneer successional stages, dominated by annuals, to early successional stages, dominated by perennials, resulted in the highest species richness of flowering plants in the second year within the first five years of succession. Species richness of flowering plants was the best predictor variable for species richness of bees, whereas the cover of flowering plants correlated with the abundance of bees. Annual plants were visited more often and perennials less often than expected from their flower cover. Halictidae tended to prefer flowers of annuals, whereas Megachilidae, Apidae and Anthophoridae significantly preferred perennials. In departure from successional theory, body size, proportion of specialised bees and proportion of parasitic bees did not significantly increase with successional age, but number of generations and the proportion of soil-nesting bees decreased with successional age. Comparison of different management types showed that set-aside fields with naturally developed vegetation supported much more specialised and endangered bee species than set-aside fields sown with Phacelia tanacetifolia.
30243125|The roe deer of Mediterranean habitats in the central and southern parts of Italy has recently been recognised as a distinct subspecies, Capreolus capreolus italicus. A population of this endangered subspecies has been monitored in the Preserve of Castelporziano, near Rome, since 1988. We observed an abrupt population decline in 2000, which may severely threaten the sustainability of this population. We evaluated the hypothesis that competition by fallow deer may be a principal cause of this decline. By a new and innovative methodology, we modelled the spatial distribution of fallow deer density (FDD) in the study area to show that 1) habitat quality for roe deer was an inverse function of FDD, 2) habitat apportionment between fallow and roe deer increased as a function of FDD and - by applying structural equation modelling - 3) FDD was superior to habitat composition in explaining observed variations in home range size and probably in habitat quality for roe deer. This analysis is the first to document that inter-specific competition may influence the spatial behaviour of a deer species leading to poor phenotypic performance in the inferior competitor. We conclude that the conservation of this relict population would benefit by reducing fallow deer numbers at Castelporziano and from other measures aimed to decrease the level of inter-specific competition.
3683483|Little is known on dispersal of lentic macroinvertebrates. We quantified dispersal of lentic macroinvertebrates through pond connections in a highly connected pond system, and investigated how dispersal rates were affected by connection properties and time of the day (day, night). Furthermore, by comparing the composition of assemblages of dispersing macroinvertebrates with the macroinvertebrate assemblages of source ponds, we tested whether dispersal was neutral or a taxon-specific process. We found that many taxa dispersed through the pond connections. Taxa richness of the dispersing macroinvertebrate assemblage was proportional to taxa richness in the source ponds. The number of individuals that dispersed, however, was not related to source pond densities, possibly because of the highly patchy distribution of lentic macroinvertebrates within ponds. Elevated dispersal rates were recorded for Baetidae, Chironomidae and Physidae, indicating a taxon-specific use of pond connections as dispersal pathway. None of the physical properties of the connections affected dispersal. Macroinvertebrates dispersed more during the night than during daytime. Of seven tested families, Chaoboridae and Chironomidae showed higher dispersal during the night, probably resulting from diel vertical migration, since pond connections mainly transported near-surface water. Flying and non-flying invertebrates dispersed equally frequent through pond connections. For non-flying invertebrates that disperse infrequently over land, dispersal through pond connections may provide an important additional means of dispersal.
3683384|Genetic differentiation between and within five varieties of Euphrasia stricta (var. brevipila, var. gotlandica, var. stricta, var. suecica and var. tenuis) on Gotland was investigated, using amplified fragment length polymorphism, AFLP. The varieties are described in the literature by morphology and association to habitat type. We wanted to investigate whether the varieties are locally adapted populations to the typical habitat type for each variety or if they are preadapted to certain habitat types and have colonized Gotland in their present form. A constrained principal coordinate analysis revealed three genetically differentiated subunits within the species. The two early-flowering varieties suecica and tenuis each formed a distinct group, while the three late-flowering varieties brevipila, gotlandica and stricta together formed the third group. A phylogenetic tree confirms the partitioning into three groups. Within the group containing the late-flowering varieties there are populations that pair as each other's closest relatives, but belong to different varieties. These pairs are also geographically adjacent. The phylogenetic tree had a "star-like" appearance indicating a stronger divergence between populations than between varieties. The same pattern was seen in the partitioning of genetic diversity, with a lower amount of genetic variation occurring between varieties, <tex-math>${\rm F}_{{\rm ST}}=0.14$</tex-math>, than between populations within the varieties, F<sub> ST</sub> ranging from 0.26 to 0.60. In Euphrasia stricta the varieties suecica and tenuis and the group containing the varieties stricta/gotlandica/brevipila are likely to have a phylogeographical history outside Gotland, or an ancient and concealed local origin on the island. Within the group stricta/gotlandica/brevipila local evolutionary events seem to determine the variety identity, probably through local adaptation.
3683060|Water striders harbor a diverse assemblage of symbionts in their digestive tract. We used a field experiment, in which water striders were reared in enclosures in their natural pond habitat, to assess the effects of gut symbionts on growth. Trypanosomatid flagellates had significant adverse effects on both development time and adult size, and therefore are clearly parasitic. Yet because of their low prevalences (2% or less), trypanosomatids cannot be a major factor in the dynamics of our study population. Gregarines occurred in 36% of the water striders, often in high numbers, and filling the entire midgut of some bugs. Nevertheless, infected and uninfected gerrids did not differ in their growth, and gregarine loads were uncorrelated with development time and adult size attained. We also did not find effects of gregarines in a second experiment with different rearing conditions, including a treatment with food stress. We used a quantitative genetic approach to test if resistance against gregarines has a heritable component. There was no evidence for any genetic variation, suggesting that variability in gregarine loads is the result of environmental heterogeneity. Comparison with published reports from water striders shows that there is a great variability in the diversity and prevalence of symbionts among different populations and species of gerrids.
20696315|Vulnerability of natural communities to invasion by non-native plants has been linked to factors such as recent disturbance and high resource availability, suggesting that recently restored habitats may be especially invasible. Because non-native plants can interfere with restoration goals, monitoring programs should anticipate which sites are most susceptible to invasion and which species are likely to become problematic at a site. Restored sites of larger area and those with high rates of propagule input should have higher species richness of both natives and non-natives, leading to a positive correlation between the two. However, in restored wetlands, urbanization, riparian landscape settings, and nitrogen enrichment likely favor non-native relative to native species. We sampled 28 restored wetlands in Illinois, USA, modeled the responses of native richness, non-native richness and non-native cover to local and landscape predictors with linear regression, and modeled the presence/absence of 21 non-native species with logistic regressions. Unexpectedly, native and non-native richness were uncorrelated, suggesting different responses to environmental factors. Native richness declined with increasing available soil nitrogen and urbanization in the surrounding landscape. Non-native richness, the richness of non-natives relative to natives, and the likelihood of invasion by several individual invasive species decreased with increasing distance from the city of Chicago, likely in response to decreasing non-native propagule pressure. Total cover of non-natives, however, as well as cover by non-native Phalaris arundinacea, increased with nitrogen availability. Our results indicate that although non-native richness was better predicted by factors related to propagule pressure, non-native species dominance was more closely related to local abiotic factors. Non-native richness in restoration sites may be beyond the control of restoration practitioners, and furthermore, may be of limited relevance for conservation goals. In contrast, limiting the relative dominance of non-natives should be a restoration priority and may be achievable through management of nutrient availability.
3682762|A capture-recapture design was applied between January 1989 and June 1991 in a 37.5 ha area located in the central valley of the Tiber River (Latium), aimed at estimating the demographic parameters of a coypu population in the Mediterranean climate and at preliminarily investigating the factors that regulate its numbers in this region. The population fluctuated between 27 and 137 individuals and followed a seasonal pattern: it decreased after the winter and increased between summer and winter. Density remained almost stable during a particularly mild winter. Survival rates remained relatively high over the entire study period; reproductive activity and additions to the population from in situ reproduction, however, showed minimum peaks following colder winters. Evidence of immigration was detected during periods of increasing density. Key factor and preliminary density dependence analyses showed that pregnancy failure and new-born losses are cumulatively the most important factor contributing to variation in total mortality, and are positively related to coypu numbers in previous periods. The failure to realize maximum potential fecundity is inversely related to previous coypu abundance. We show that post-recruitment losses play only a minor role in determining population decline.
3683385|The abundance of a given species in a community is likely to depend on both the total abundance and diversity of other species making up that community. A large number of co-occurring individuals or co-occurring species may decrease the abundance of any given species via diffuse competition; however, indirect interactions among many cooccurring species can have positive effects on a focal species. The existence of diffuse competition and facilitation remain difficult to demonstrate in natural communities. Here, we use data on communities of fleas ectoparasitic on small mammals from 27 distinct geographical regions to test whether the abundance of any given flea species in a community is affected by either the total abundance of all other co-occurring flea species, or the species richness and/or taxonomic diversity of the flea community. At all scales of analysis, i.e. whether we compared the same flea species on different host species, or different flea species, two consistent results emerged. First, the abundance of a given flea species correlates positively with the total abundance of all other co-occurring flea species in the community. Second, the abundance of any given flea species correlates negatively with either the species richness or taxonomic diversity of the flea community. The results do not support the existence of diffuse competition in these assemblages, because the more individuals of other flea species are present on a host population, the more individuals of the focal species are there as well. Instead, we propose explanations involving either apparent facilitation among flea species via suppression of host immune defenses, or niche filtering processes acting to restrict the taxonomic composition and abundance of flea assemblages.
3682808| We investigated allozyme variation and phenotypic variation in leaf shape in 15 populations of the shrub Hippocrepis emerus (Leguminosae) from the three isolated, regional populations in Scandinavia and analysed patterns of differentiation and the hierarchical structuring of diversity on different geographic scales. There are pronounced geographic differences between the Norwegian and Swedish isolates of the species and most of the polymorphic allozyme loci show reciprocal fixation in the two isolates. The Scandinavian populations of H. emerus are not only disjunct on a macrogeographic scale but also show considerable disjunction within regions. Within the land regional population, a central group of populations shows low levels of inter-population differentiation: the Gotland group of populations is related to this core group of land populations. The geographically marginal populations on land are spatially isolated and show a higher degree of divergence between populations than does the central group of land populations. We interpret genetic divergence between the marginal populations in terms of genetic drift - as a result of historical fluctuations in habitat availability and population size. 
3683100| The effect of patch size on the tolerance of the soil microarthropod population to an experimentally induced environmental catastrophe, a thick surface ice layer, was studied at a High Arctic site (7855N, 1153E). Such an ice layer currently occurs infrequently; however, climate change models suggest that the occurrence of such an ice layer is likely to increase in frequency. The experimental approach was a factorial design with two patch sizes, an icing treatment and controls. A thin layer of natural ice was present even in the controls and this was treated as a covariate in the analysis. The soil microarthropod fauna at the experimental site consisted of five species of Collembola and seven species of oribatid mite. The experimental surface ice layer reduced the total number of the soil microarthropods studied by 50%; however, mortality differed between mites and Collembola and species within the two taxonomic groups. Mites were very resistant and showed no significant change, Collembola more sensitive (the populations of Hypogastrura tullbergi declined by 56% and Folsomia quadrioculata by 54% in the iced treatment plots). The thin annual surface ice layer seemed to have an additional effect on H. tullbergi and the mite Lauroppia translamellata. That such a thin ice layer could reduce survival was unexpected and could play an important role in determining the extreme patchy distribution of arctic soil animals. 
30244563|Accurate modeling of geographic distributions of species is crucial to various applications in ecology and conservation. The best performing techniques often require some parameter tuning, which may be prohibitively time-consuming to do separately for each species, or unreliable for small or biased datasets. Additionally, even with the abundance of good quality data, users interested in the application of species models need not have the statistical knowledge required for detailed tuning. In such cases, it is desirable to use "default settings", tuned and validated on diverse datasets. Maxent is a recently introduced modeling technique, achieving high predictive accuracy and enjoying several additional attractive properties. The performance of Maxent is influenced by a moderate number of parameters. The first contribution of this paper is the empirical tuning of these parameters. Since many datasets lack information about species absence, we present a tuning method that uses presence-only data. We evaluate our method on independently collected high-quality presenceabsence data. In addition to tuning, we introduce several concepts that improve the predictive accuracy and running time of Maxent. We introduce "hinge features" that model more complex relationships in the training data; we describe a new logistic output format that gives an estimate of probability of presence; finally we explore "background sampling" strategies that cope with sample selection bias and decrease model-building time. Our evaluation, based on a diverse dataset of 226 species from 6 regions, shows: 1) default settings tuned on presence-only data achieve performance which is almost as good as if they had been tuned on the evaluation data itself; 2) hinge features substantially improve model performance; 3) logistic output improves model calibration, so that large differences in output values correspond better to large differences in suitability; 4) "target-group" background sampling can give much better predictive performance than random background sampling; 5) random background sampling results in a dramatic decrease in running time, with no decrease in model performance.
3683430|Movements between habitat patches in a patchy population of the butterfly Boloria aquilonaris were monitored using capture-mark-recapture methods during three successive generations. For each data set, the inverse cumulative proportion of individuals moving 100 m distance classes was fitted to the negative exponential function and the inverse power function. In each case, the negative exponential function provided a better fit than the inverse power function. Two dispersal kernels were generated using both negative exponential and inverse power functions. These dispersal kernels were used to predict movements between 14 suitable sites in a landscape of
3683103|We studied small-mammal populations across a range of spatial scales to determine which scales were relevant to demographic variability. We predicted that a scale of variability in population structure would occur at the scale of dispersal, which has previously been described as < 200 m for some small-mammal species. Systematic live-trapping surveys were conducted on nested grids at three scales: 1) extent = 4900 ha, grain = 1000 m; 2) extent = 306 ha, grain = 250 m; and 3) extent = 31 ha, grain = 125 m. Prior to the present study, small-mammal populations had not been systematically live-trapped across a similar range of scales. From 1996 to 1998, surveys were conducted on a landscape intensively managed for timber, and on a reference landscape. Spatial analysis of abundance data demonstrated that small-mammal populations (four species) exhibited positive spatial autocorrelation at distances of between 133 and 533 m depending on the species and the landscape. No higher-order population structure was detected. Thus, within the range of scales we sampled, variability in small-mammal abundance occurred over short distances (i.e., 133-533 m).
30243234|We compared two methodological approaches - principal coordinate analysis of neighbour matrices (PCNM) and geostatistics-that both aim at extracting several spatial scales in order to identify spatial relationships between organisms and environmental variables at multiple scales. From a statistical point of view, PCNM analysis and geostatistics come from "two different worlds" - PCNM is based on classical "data analysis" while geostatistical modelling is developed in a probabilistic context. These two methods were used to investigate the spatial relationships between defoliation caused by spruce budworm Choristoneura fumiferana and bioclimatic conditions in Ontario since 1941 through a wide range of scales. On the one hand, PCNM variables related to defoliation frequency were partitioned into four spatial submodels representing respectively four spatial scales: very broad scale (ca >300 km), broad scale (ca 180 km), fine (ca 100 km), and very fine ( <80 km). On the other hand, nested variogram modelling was used to identify the relevant scales. The nested variogram model was composed of four variograms with different characteristic scales close to those of the PCNM spatial submodels. Maps of PCNM submodels and kriging components revealed similar spatial patterns of defoliation frequency at very broad and broad scales while spatial patterns at fine and very fine scales looked quite different. Both methods showed that defoliation by spruce budworm occurs at the broader spatial scales but may be explained by fluctuations at the smaller scales. Finally, results based on geostatistics using a Linear Model of Coregionalisation suggested that climatic conditions can be considered to act at the level of outbreak dynamics while the tree community of spruce budworm's principal hosts controls local population dynamics.
3683151|We used a published data set summarizing avifaunas of 31 montane patches of humid forest in Mesoamerica to analyze avian distributions with respect to site characteristics. This forest type was originally widespread in the lowlands, and became restricted to mountains during Pleistocene climatic changes. Hierarchical partitioning, a recently developed regression procedure, was used to examine independent factor effects. Total species richness, richness of Mesoamerican endemic species, richness of narrowly endemic species, and richness of habitat specialists were considered separately, each analyzed at three spatial scales. For total richness and Mesoamerican endemics, regional-level variables, notably latitude, were most influential. Narrow endemics exhibited more complex patterns, driven by foci both in western Mexico and in Costa Rica and western Panama. Historical factors are suggested to have contributed to this latitudinal pattern, such that the isthmuses of Tehuantepec and Panama acted as barriers to range expansion and peninsular effects catalyzed speciation, elevating numbers of endemic species. In contrast to many anthropogenic fragmentation studies, area and other local-scale patch attributes had little influence on avifaunas. This discrepancy may be related to fundamental differences in spatial and temporal scaling, with patterns uncovered herein more indicative of long-term community processes.
30243181|The species-area relationship (SAR) provides a cornerstone for ecological theory. Implicit in SAR studies is the assumption that SAR properties, especially SAR slopes, remain constant through time, even though the ecosystem characteristics that they encompass - the spatial distribution and abundance of species - change on seasonal to evolutionary time scales. Focusing on disturbed subalpine systems, we evaluated whether SAR properties are a function of stage of succession at Mount St. Helens, WA, and at Gothic, CO. We found that the SAR flattens and shifts upward as these systems mature. The decrease in SAR curvature at Mount St. Helens suggests a transition toward power-law SAR behavior with assembly. Overall, the observed changes in SAR properties raise questions about the appropriateness of applying contemporary SARs to predict future levels of species richness in disturbed or successional systems.
3683487|The distribution of many cephalopod, crustacean and fish species in the Southern Ocean, and adjacent waters, is poorly known, particularly during times of the year when research surveys are rare. Analysing the stomach samples of satellite-tracked higher predators has been advocated as a potential method by which such gaps in knowledge can be filled. We examined the viability of this approach through monitoring wandering albatrosses Diomedea exulans at their colony on Bird Island, South Georgia (54S, 38W) over the winters (May-July) of 1999 and 2000. At this time, these birds foraged in up to three different water-masses, the Antarctic zone (AZ), the sub-Antarctic zone (SAZ) and the sub-Tropical zone (STZ), which we defined by contemporaneous satellite images of sea surface temperature. A probabilistic model was applied to the tracking and diet data collected from 38 birds to construct a large-scale map of where various prey were captured. Robustness/sensitivity analyses were used to test model assumptions on the time spent foraging and relative catch efficiencies and to evaluate potential biases associated with the model. We were able to predict the distributions of a wide number of cephalopod, crustacean of fish species. We also discovered some of the limitations to using this type of data and proposed ways to rectify these problems.
3682836|Effects of soil factors and seed-dispersing heteromyid rodents on the distribution of Indian ricegrass Achnatherum hymenoides were studied at a sharp ecotone between a sandy area with abundant Indian ricegrass and a rocky area where Indian ricegrass was scarce. Two hypotheses were tested: 1) Soil factors limited the recruitment rate of Indian ricegrass in the rocky habitat; and 2) Heteromyid rodents limited the distribution of Indian ricegrass because they did not scatterhoard seeds in the rocky habitat. Seed-planting experiments and soil analyses showed that soil characteristics, especially texture and salinity, limited the distribution of Indian ricegrass, but also that microsites existed in the rocky habitat that were suitable for germination and growth of Indian ricegrass. In particular, as many plants survived over their first winter in the rocky habitat as in the sandy habitat, although surviving plants were taller in the sandy habitat. Analysis of the soil seed bank indicated that fewer seeds were dispersed to the rocky habitat than to the sandy habitat. To determine whether scatterhoards were being made in the rocky habitat, seeds dyed with fluorescent powder were placed along the ecotone and the fates of these seeds were assessed. Twice as many of these seeds were scatterhoarded in the sandy habitat as in the rocky habitat and seeds were cached further from the ecotone in the sandy habitat. The results suggest that both soil characteristics and heteromyid rodents influence the distribution of Indian ricegrass in western Nevada.
3683598|Fire is a key mechanism creating and maintaining habitat heterogeneity in Mediterranean landscapes by turning continuous woody landscapes into mosaics of forests and shrublands. Due to the long historical role of fires in the Mediterranean, we hypothesised a moderate negative effect of this type of perturbation on forest bird distribution at a landscape level. We conducted point bird censuses in Aleppo pine forest patches surrounded by burnt shrublands and studied the relationships between three ecological groups of bird species (forest canopy species, forest understorey species, and ubiquitous species) and the features of local habitat, whole patch and surrounding landscape. We used a multi-scale approach to assess the effects of landscape variables at increasing spatial scales on point bird richness. Regarding local habitat components, canopy species were positively associated with tall pines while understorey species with the cover of shrubs and plants from holm-oak forests. Forest birds were positively related to patch size and irregular forest shapes, that is, with high perimeter/size ratios. Thus, these species did not seem to perceive edges as low quality but rather favourable microhabitats. We did not detect any negative effect of isolation or cover of woodlands in the landscape on the presence of forest species after local habitat factors had been accounted for. Finally, only local habitat factors entered the model for ubiquitous species. We suggest that mosaic-like landscapes shaped by fires in the Mediterranean basin are not strongly associated with negative effects fragmentation on forest birds other than those related with habitat loss.
3683421|We describe a new method for estimating the area of home ranges and constructing utilization distributions (UDs) from spatial data. We compare our method with bivariate kernel and -hull methods, using both randomly distributed and highly aggregated data to test the accuracy of area estimates and UD isopleth construction. The data variously contain holes, corners, and corridors linking high use areas. Our method is based on taking the union of the minimum convex polygons (MCP) associated with the k - 1 nearest neighbors of each point in the data and, as such, has one free parameter k. We propose a "minimum spurious hole covering" (MSHC) rule for selecting k and interpret its application in terms of type I and type II statistical errors. Our MSHC rule provides estimates within 12% of true area values for all 5 data sets, while kernel methods are worse in all cases: in one case overestimating area by a factor of 10 and in another case underestimating area by a factor of 50. Our method also constructs much better estimates for the density isopleths of the UDs than kernel methods. The -hull method does not lead directly to the construction of isopleths and also does not always include all points in the constructed home range. Finally we demonstrate that kernel methods, unlike our method and the -hull method, does not converges to the true area represented by the data as the number of data points increase.
3683840|Soil resource availability varies across seasons and soil layers. Both plant phenology, i.e. the sequence of growth and developmental changes along the year, and plant life form, i.e. the life cycle, distribution of roots, and longevity of leaves, determine the ability to use resources. The phenological heterogeneity within and among life forms of a single community may reveal key features of community structure, such as temporal niche segregation within life forms or convergence of phenological and life form patterns. We described the phenological patterns of most species of a Patagonian steppe composed of four life forms: perennial grasses, shrubs, annual herbs, and perennial herbs. By applying standard multivariate analysis techniques, we classified the species into three phenological groups and analysed the variation among groups and life forms. One phenological group, composed exclusively by grasses, had higher autumn-winter phenological activity than the other two groups. The non-grass groups differed in the date of beginning of vegetative growth and ending of the reproductive growth, one of the groups being earlier than the other. However, the three groups coincided at the phenophase of floral buds and open flowers, which occurred around the time of the maximum rate of phenological change and maximum fraction of photosynthetically active radiation being intercepted by the entire community. Phenological groups and life forms only partially overlapped: grasses and annual herbs belonged to individual phenological groups, whereas shrubs and perennial herbs spread across two groups. Thus, some life forms of the community were strictly related to a phenological behaviour, whereas other showed high temporal niche segregation. Simultaneously, diverse life forms converged into similar phenological patterns.
30243117|The introduction of exotic species in aquatic habitats is one of the causes for the amphibian declines observed worldwide. In the 1970s, the red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii was introduced in the southwest Iberian Peninsula, where no native crayfish occur. In this study we assess the effect of P clarkii presence in the breeding site distribution of each of the 13 southwest Iberian amphibians, while simultaneously accounting for the effects of potentially confounding habitat variables, as well as for the effects of the other large aquatic predators in the study area predatory fish. Amphibian species richness was lower in places where P clarkii was present than in places without P clarkii, regardless of fish presence. After accounting for habitat variables and fish, crayfish presence was a negative predictor of the breeding probability for all urodeles (Pleurodeles waltl, Salamandra salamandra, Triturus boscai and T. marmoratus) and for two anurans (Pelobates cultripes and Bufo bufo). The majority of the species affected usually breed in temporary ponds without fish, but that may be colonized by the crayfish. The ongoing expansion of P clarkii may eventually lead to a growing isolation of amphibian populations and ultimately to local extinctions and a permanent alteration of the amphibian communities in southwest Iberian Peninsula.
3683132|An investigation was conducted examining the horizontal and vertical distribution of zooplankton in Lake Miramar, a southern California reservoir. Daphnia and Mesocyclops populations were most abundant offshore and in deeper water during the day but appeared to move toward shore and upward at night. The results of inshore zooplankton sampling provided no evidence that the diel horizontal migration pattern was a result of sampler avoidance by zooplankton. Inshore-offshore differences in Daphnia and Mesocyclops abundance and diel migrations were reduced during winter and early spring. Rotifer zooplankters exhibited less seasonal variation in their horizontal distributions than did the large crustacean zooplankters at all times of the year. It is hypothesized that the spatial distribution of zooplankton is related to predation gradients in Lake Miramar. The dominant planktivore in the reservoir, young-of-the-year Micropterus salmoides, was abundant from late May through December and much less so from January to early May. They were largely restricted to the littoral zone and this produced horizontal gradients of planktivory which varied in strength seasonally and from day to night. It appears that crustacean zooplankton in Lake Miramar avoid areas with abundant planktivores during the day but migrate into these areas at night when the intensity of planktivory is reduced. Rotifers exhibit less horizontal heterogeneity and no significant diel migrations, which is attributed to the reduced risk of predation that rotifers experience relative to crustacean zooplankters. A graphical model is proposed to integrate our understanding of diel vertical and horizontal migrations of zooplankton. In this model, gradients of predation are completely vertical in offshore areas and strongly horizontal in near shore areas. Gradients of food availability are roughly similar to those of predation intensity. Plankters respond to these gradients by migrating in a path parallel to gradients of predation at dawn and parallel to gradients of food availability after dark.
3683411|Little is known about how patterns and mechanisms of seed dispersal vary among different habitats. To address this we studied Rhinanthus minor, a grassland annual herb, in four environments: early or late hay cutting, grazing by sheep, and no management. Comprehensive measures were made of dispersal, by intensive seed trapping up to 25 m from source plants and in four directions. We found large differences in dispersal among the environments in terms of curve shape, maximum distance and directionality. Dispersal was shortest under grazing (maximum distance 0.9 m) and furthest under the early cut (19.1 m). Dispersal differences reflect the mechanisms of dispersal in each environment. Dispersal was by wind under no management, and by the mowing machinery under an early cut, whereas a late cut produced a combination of dispersal by wind and the machinery. Grazing hindered dispersal, through trampling of plants. Additional measures of seed mass supported the hypothesis of a negative seed size vs dispersal distance relationship and suggested its generality across a range of environments. Understanding the variation in dispersal patterns among environments may allow increased realism of spatial models.
3683401|It is often essential to understand historical selection regimes to explain current traits. We studied antipredator behavior of three Tasmanian macropodid marsupials - Forester kangaroos Macropus giganteus, Bennett's wallabies M. rufogriseus, and Tasmanian pademelons Thylogale billardierii - to understand how antipredator behavior functions in a relatively intact predator community. We also compared behavior of the kangaroos and wallabies on a predator-free island where they were translocated from mainland Tasmania 30 yr ago. Both species allowed humans to get closer to them on the predator-free island; a finding consistent with a reduced risk of predation on the island. Neither kangaroos, nor wallabies, exhibited group size effects - they did not modify time allocated to foraging or antipredator vigilance as a function of group size at either site. Nor did overall time allocation vary in any consistent way. In contrast, mainland Australian sibling-species of Forester kangaroos and Bennett's wallabies have both been reported to have group size effects. It is possible either that the extinction of the thylacine Thylacinus cynocephalus in the last century has led to an evolutionary loss of group size effects and other antipredator behavior, or that thylacines were never that important a predator on Tasmanian subspecies. In contrast, Tasmanian pademelons studied on the Tasmanian mainland modified time allocation as a function of group size suggesting that they perceived safety in numbers. Pademelons, because of their body size, are relatively more vulnerable than larger-bodied macropodids to the rich community of marsupial carnivores in Tasmania, and used a mix of social and individual strategies to manage predation risk.
30244660|Social information in breeding site selection has received extensive study; however, few attempts have been made to link this process to pre-existing models. We examine the importance of social information to three pertinent models of habitat selection that describe breeding aggregations and spatial patterns: 1) the ideal despotic distribution (IDD) which considers conspecific competition and habitat availability, 2) the perceptual constraints model which accounts for patch selection when animals experience a threshold of undetectable difference in quality, and 3) the "neighbourhood model" which predicts concordance between resources and settlers can be disrupted by conspecific attraction when resources are patchy. These models all predict initial settlers will select a high quality patch first. However, their predictions of subsequent settlement behaviour in remaining patches differ: the IDD predicts subsequent settlers will be distributed regularly, the perceptual constraints model predicts a random distribution, and the neighbourhood model predicts clustering from conspecific attraction. We examined which model best described settlement patterns of bobolink Dolichonyx oryzivorus and savannah sparrow Passerculus sandwichensis, in the context of social information. We observed settlement timing, quantified available resources, and determined where they occurred in the highest (local population "core") and lowest densities (local population "periphery"). We then assessed whether individuals in the periphery settled in greater concordance with resources or conspecific presence. Core territories were clustered strongly on relevant resources, and these territory holders were older than in the periphery. Peripheral territories were likewise clustered but did not always co-occur with the best available resources, matching the neighbourhood model prediction that social information may not always direct them to the best sites available. This suggests older individuals used their own experience to locate ideal habitat, whereas younger individuals attempted to aggregate on seemingly ideal habitat by using conspecific location; such information asymmetry due to age can be viewed as an "ideal aggregative distribution".
3683824|The greater number of plant species in temperate eastern Asia compared to eastern North America has been ascribed to both local environment and regional characteristics, but the relative contributions of each have not been resolved. In this analysis, we related species richness of flowering plants in mesoscale floras <latex>$(<10^{4}\ {\rm km}^{2})$</latex> dominated by temperate forest vegetation to area, elevation, latitude, and several climate variables. When analyses were conducted separately within each region, area and, in eastern Asia, elevation, were the primary determinants of species richness. It appears that the number of species in mesic temperate floras within these regions is largely unrelated to the relatively narrow range of local climate factors associated with these floras. Analysis of covariance of the logarithm of species richness with the logarithm of area (b = 0.148) and climate measurements as independent variables revealed a region effect, with species richness in eastern Asia exceeding that in eastern North America by 0.294 log<sub>10</sub> units, or a factor of 2.0. Similar regional differences in species richness were apparent in floras compiled from larger areas. Understanding differences in plant species richness between regions requires consideration of regional influences, whose effects should be tested in comparative analyses based on floristic surveys of ecologically characterized small areas.
3683469|Variation in in situ growth performance of the mountain birch as indicated by the widths of annual rings was analysed and related mainly to temperature and herbivory using ring width series from five heath forest sites in the Lake Tornetrsk area, northern Sweden. Climate explained 48-64% of the variation in age-corrected mean ring width series. In general, the effect of current year July followed by June temperature was most important at all sites. A warm May resulted in wider rings due to an earlier budburst. Short-term (inter-annual) responses to increased temperature were in most cases not reflected into long-term responses (decades). A large proportion of the variation in stem mean ring width was due to variation among stems within trees (81%) in these polycormic trees, while variation among sites was marginal (0.4%). Within trees, main stems grew faster and were more responsive to climate variation than subordinate stems. No effect of insect herbivory on ring width was found at low defoliation levels (12%). At a defoliation level of ca 84% a one-year reduction in stem growth was observed while the growth reduction (ca 50% reduction in ring width) lasted for 4 yr after ca 93% defoliation. After outbreaks resulting in complete defoliation and some stem mortality, ring widths of surviving stems mainly responded with increased growth. Basal sprouts, emerging just after a severe insect outbreak with a high mortality of old stems, grew faster than sprouts occurring during other periods. It is concluded that the mountain birch is well adapted to recover from Epirrita outbreaks; the ability to produce basal sprouts, that can benefit from an existing root system for fast initial growth, is one important mechanism for this.
3682867|The abundance and distribution of breeding birds were compared on paired fields comprising one set-aside field and one crop field, on 11 intensive arable farms in eastern and western England. A single observer made four visits to all set-aside and crop fields between April and July and recorded all birds seen during standardised counts and transects. Rotational and non-rotational set-aside supported higher densities and more species of birds than fields of wheat, brassicas, root crops and seed rye. These differences in density, between set-aside and crops, were evident across a suit of species including waders, gamebirds, pigeons and passerines and were particularly marked on rotational set-aside. The majority of species recorded in fields away from boundaries would have been feeding rather than nesting there and higher bird densities on set-aside compared with adjacent arable crops probably reflects greater food abundance in the former. The study is the first to demonstrate a clear habitat preference for set-aside by a wide range of bird species throughout the breeding season and it allows a number of recommendations to be made concerning the development of cost-effective agri-environment measures. The fact that the majority of birds utilised the outer 5 m, or in some cases 20 m, margin of the field suggests that many of the benefits of whole field set-aside may be derived from marginal strips. A slight, but not significant preference for rotational over non-rotational set-aside suggest such margins should be managed to maintain a patchy, relatively diverse sward of arable plants. A key feature of set-aside is the scale at which it has been incorporated into the arable landscape. Agri-environmental schemes will only provide similar national benefits if they are implemented on a wide scale in such as way as to promote high uptake by farmers.
3683179|A controversial question in biogeography and ecology involves the extent to which vicariance and dispersal interact to determine the structure of continental biotic assemblages. Accumulating evidence of distributional changes during the past 40 000 yr (Late Quaternary) has suggested to ecologists that changes in geographic ranges during the Pleistocene were of sufficient magnitude to erode prior associations between earth and biotic evolution in continental biotas. This paper first argues that this question can only be addressed by examining the magnitude of Late Quaternary range-shifting at the spatial scale established within the framework of historical biogeography (e.g., areas of endemism) rather than that of ecology (e.g., local community assemblages); and second reassesses patterns of range-shifting in the FAUNMAP data base recording Late Quaternary distributions of North American mammals. At the scale of geomorphological provinces, North American rodents have exhibited highly stable distributions during this time frame, suggesting that previous inferences drawn from analyses of stability at a local community scale are not relevant to questions of congruence between earth and biotic history at regional or continental scales. A comprehensive understanding of processes underlying the assembly of continental biotas still requires incorporation of biogeographic patterns developed well before episodes of Late Quaternary climatic turbulence.
3683144|There is a growing focus among ecologists on the importance of predatory interactions between competing species, but because of its mixed character, it is difficult to pinpoint the possible, competitive component of the interaction. We tested degree of prey consumption in intraguild predation of Eurasian lynxes on red foxes against assumed 'pure' predation, i.e. roe deer and mountain hares. The proportion of uneaten fox carcasses was highly significantly larger than the proportion of both other prey species, indicating that interference competition may play a role in the intraguild predation of lynxes on red foxes.
3682936|The arctic fox Alopex lagopus L. population in Sweden is small and its numbers fluctuate widely with food availability, i.e. rodent populations. This fluctuation is mediated through differences in recruitment rates between years. The recruitment can be divided into three phases: number of litters born, number of cubs per litter and cub survival rates. The number of litters and their sizes have been shown to depend on food availability during winter and spring. To examine cub survival during the summer and how it relates to food availability, we conducted a feeding experiment in northern Sweden during 1990, a year of low rodent density, involving six occupied arctic fox dens. Feeding at dens lowered cub mortality rates. However, condition and growth rates of juveniles were not influenced by supplementary feeding at dens, nor were they related to the probability of survival for an individual. Thus arctic foxes seem to minimize risks rather than maximize growth. The juvenile mortality from weaning and over the next 6 wk was 21%, mostly due to starvation. Only 8.2% survived from weaning to the first breeding season. Of the one-year-old foxes, 50% survived their second year. Supplementary feeding of juveniles had no effect on the final survival rates over these two years. However, the immediate, positive effect on cub survival could be used in a long-term, extensive management programme if combined with winter feeding.
3683736|In the U.K. the impact of introduced American mink Mustela vison, on water voles Arvicola terrestris, may be exacerbated by habitat loss and fragmentation. Pristine wetlands in Belarus, which American mink invaded in the early 1990s, provide a three-pronged opportunity to test this hypothesis. First, we examine the evidence that, even in the unmanaged wetlands of our Belarussian study site, American mink have reduced water vole populations. Second, we ask whether habitat size, type and isolation mitigate the impact of American mink predation. Thirdly, we explore whether water voles are at greater risk of predation from American than European mink because of their patterns of habitat use. Following the invasion of American mink, water voles were most abundant in small, still-water sites, far from river banks, while American mink were most active in large, running-water sites. Small mammal remains were found in a higher percentage of American than European mink scats, and of these, more were water vole in American mink scats. The occurrence of water voles in scats of both mink species declined after the American mink invaded and established. Our results provide at least circumstantial evidence that American mink limit water vole populations even in unmanaged wetland eco-systems, and that they have a greater impact than their European congener at least partly because they make greater use of isolated marshes. Although by no means providing complete protection, the configuration and dispersion of available habitat mitigated the impact of American mink on water voles. This raises the possibility that habitat restoration, especially through the establishment of isolated enclaves, could help reduce the effect of American mink in the U.K. These observations are of broader interest in the context of assessing the effect of multiple pressures on vulnerable species.
30243187|In urban brownfields (derelict sites), we studied the influence of local factors (successional age, vegetation structure, soil) and landscape context (spatial arrangement of brownfields of different successional stages) on the diversity of phytophagous insects, grasshoppers and leafhoppers (Orthoptera and Hemiptera: Auchenorrhyncha). The study was conducted on a total of 246 plots in the cities of Bremen and Berlin, Germany. We used a habitat modelling approach, enabling us to predict the community from single species models (30 species in Bremen, 28 in Berlin). The results revealed that communities were predominantly determined by vegetation structure, followed by landscape context, soil parameters and site age. For most species, local factors were the most important. Only few species were strongly influenced by landscape context, even though some showed clear negative reactions to low proportions of brownfields in the surroundings. Along a successional gradient of vegetation structure, from scarce and low to dense and high vegetation, the insect community was not static. Even though species numbers remained comparatively constant, species composition changed considerably. Many species showed clear preferences for certain successional stages. Thus, maintaining the regional species pool of a city requires a mosaic of all successional stages.
30243278|Reproductive success and habitat preference are generally assumed to be negatively associated with densities of con- and heterospecific competitors. However, recent theoretical studies have suggested that in some cases habitat preference may have a nonlinear unimodal function in relation to con- or heterospecific competitor densities - intermediate densities being preferred. Such a pattern is expected if con- or heterospecific densities are used as a proximate cue in habitat selection, which may produce benefits by reducing searching costs and providing information about current habitat quality and costs of competition. At low density the use of such cues, and hence habitat selection, are hampered, whereas at high density costs of competition exceed the benefits of using cues, leading to avoidance. Here, we tested this hypothesis by examining whether arboreal migratory birds use the density of resident titmice (Parus spp.) in habitat selection decisions. Many migrants and titmice species share similar resource needs making titmice density a reliable source of information for migrants. At the scale of habitat patches, we experimentally created a range of titmice densities from low to very high and subsequently measured the density response of migrants. In contrast to the unimodal habitat preference hypothesis, the average species number and total density of migratory birds were positively and linearly correlated with manipulated titmice density. Thus, migrants probably use titmice density as a relative indicator of habitat quality (abundance or quality of food) because foliage gleaners that share similar food resource with titmice, but not ground foragers, showed a positive association with manipulated titmice density. These results emphasize the positive effect of interspecific social information on habitat choice decisions and diversity of migratory bird community.
3683513| Current agricultural practices are believed to have contributed to the declines of many farmland bird species, especially seed-eaters, throughout Europe. We investigated associations between the spatial distribution of fourteen granivorous farmland bird species and agricultural land-use in Britain, using breeding bird atlas data and national agricultural statistics. Analyses were spatially-referenced by 10  10 km square and variation due to broad-scale geography and spatial auto-correlation was controlled for. Generalized linear modelling analyses were used to select models describing variation in distribution explained by the available land-use variables. The results show that relationships between distribution and agriculture tend to be species-specific, but that some general effects can be identified. Features of intensive arable farming including large areas of sugar beet, wheat and oilseed rape tended to be associated with low frequencies of occurrence for 9-11 species, while large areas of younger (re-seeded) grassland and high sheep stocking densities were associated with low frequencies in pastoral farmland for up to 12 species. One key feature of lower intensity farming, the presence of larger areas of fallow land, was positively related to frequency index for up to 11 species. The proportion of barley sown in spring and agricultural diversity were each associated with a range of complex relationships with frequency index across species, probably reflecting combinations of positive influences and artefacts of scale and geography. A variable describing the heterogeneity of farmland (the extent to which it is a mix of arable and pastoral land-use) was negatively related to frequency index for eight species, but other results suggested that farming which is mixed at a smaller spatial scale is widely beneficial. The results reveal relationships between agriculture and the occurrence of granivorous farmland bird species which suggest both hypotheses for the causes of population change and directions for management action. However, data on several key features of agricultural practice (such as pesticide use) were unavailable, so their effects could not be tested, and the effects of the variables included could not be separated from those of other factors which are subject to complex geographical variation. Experimental comparisons of the effects of land-use at the farm scale are needed to investigate such confounded influences on farmland bird occurrence. 
3682765|The amount and nutritive value of forage plants, diet composition, digestibility of dry matter and nutrients were recorded for zebra, Grant's gazelle, Swayne's hartebeest and hippopotamus in November-December 1991. Besides, daily egest of feces, the level of food and nutrient consumption, energy and protein requirements were recorded for zebra and Grant's gazelle. The digestibility of pasture forage was determined as a ratio of lignin concentration in food to the concentration in feces (lignin tracer technique), a daily intake was calculated on the basis of the daily feces egest. Protein percentage in the diet of zebra and hartebeest consuming dry parts of grasses did not exceed 5%. Gazelle diet consists of green parts of plants and included 18% of protein. The digestibility of dry matter in nonruminants (zebra, hippopotamus) was 40-45%, in hartebeest - 50%, in gazelle - 60%. Due to the abundance of dry grasses (
3683387|Understanding non-random patterns in the taxonomic composition of communities occurring in insular or fragmented habitats remains a major goal of ecology. Nested subset patterns are one possible departure from random community assembly that has been reported for communities of both free-living and parasitic animals. Here, we investigate the effects of extrinsic factors on the occurrence of nestedness among the assemblages of fleas found in different populations of the same host species, using data on 25 mammalian host species. The patterns of flea species composition among host populations spanned the entire spectrum from significantly nested to significantly anti-nested. After controlling for host phylogeny, we found that across host species, the tendency for flea assemblages to approach nestedness increased with increasing host geographic range size and with decreasing latitude of the host's geographic range. This tendency also decreased with an increase in a composite variable combining data on mean January and July temperature. The number of closely-related mammalian species living in sympatry with a given host species had no influence on whether or not the structure of flea assemblages among its populations departed from randomness. We propose explanations for these results that include: the possible gradual loss of flea species as a host expands its range from its initial area of origin, the lack of specific flea faunas in narrowly-distributed host species, interspecific differences in the dispersal abilities of flea species becoming amplified in hosts with broad geographical ranges, and the effect of latitude, climate and environment on the probabilities of host-switching and extinction in fleas. Overall, our results suggest that the structure of flea assemblages in mammalian hosts may be driven by features of host biology.
3682849|In order to examine the degree of resource selectivity in a north temperate dung beetle assemblage and to identify major parameters that influence such selectivity, the occurrence of adult dung beetles (Aphodius, Geotrupes and Sphaeridium) in up to five different types of dung over a period of up to 25 d was examined in a series of field experiments using standardised dung pats. There were significant physical and chemical differences in dung quality between dung types and over time during succession. Dung beetle species showed distinct preferences for particular types of dung which were generally similar in data sets from both pitfall traps and dung pat samples. Species also showed distinct patterns of successional occurrence. Ordinations produced by Canonical Correspondence Analysis, based on species occurrences in dung types and over time, usually selected dung pat age as the most important environmental variable influencing dung beetle assemblages. Dung quality parameters contributed a significant element of structure to the species ordinations but ordinations using dung types or dung quality parameter values as the environmental variables were very similar in terms of sample and species placement within the ordination for each data set. Most importantly the CCA ordinations clearly grouped species according to their breeding behaviour. Early-successional species laid eggs in the soil, or in silken egg cocoons, which allowed them to exploit wet dung. Mid and late-successional species laid eggs in the dung pat; late-successional species could exploit normally wetter dung types than mid-successional species, probably due to increased crust formation and drying as the dung pat ages. Thus, species appear to be differentially adapted to exploit varying types of dung microhabitats. Therefore, where two or more species of large herbivores are present, dung quality preferences probably constitute an important niche dimension.
3683707|There is a long-lasting debate in ecology on cyclicity, synchrony and time lags of lemming population fluctuations. We have analysed 137 yr of previously published population data on the Norwegian lemming Lemmus lemmus in ten geographic regions of Fennoscandia. The dominating pattern was synchronous 4-yr cycles. There was no support for the hypothesis of a north-south gradient in cycle length. However, we found periods of prolonged interruptions in the cyclicity, which were more common in northern areas. We found a high degree of synchrony between regions, with only a weak relationship to distance. The observed pattern in lemming population dynamics was more consistent with effects from extrinsic factors, such as climate, than intrinsic factors, such as dispersal.
3683391|This study shows that patterns in some community assemblages are not mainly governed by local factors but also by regional ones. Using field data from 36 floodplain forest lakes in the Amazon basin, we present transect count data on the richness, abundance and distribution of floodplain lake fish species. A total of 194 fish species were collected, of which 43 were classified as short-distance migrants. A positive relation was found for local migratory and sedentary species abundances with distribution at a regional scale. The study also suggests that the probability of the presence of a migratory species is more affected by aspects of river-lake connectivity than sedentary species. Our results seem to indicate that migratory species play an important role in local dynamics of floodplain lakes.
3683053|We studied geographical variation in the vernalization requirement among European populations of the facultative biennial thistle Cirsium vulgare. In two common garden experiments and a growth room experiment we found genotypes that flowered without cold, in their first year. These annual types originated mainly from the south of Europe. Most of the plants from the northern populations flowered in their second year, after experiencing winter cold. We discuss the effects of the absence of a vernalization requirement on the phenotype.
3683591|A stochastic simulation model allowing for demographic and environmental stochasticity was developed in order to predict the dynamics of a Pelobates fuscus metapopulation. The metapopulation (consisting of ca 1000 adult individuals) was intensively studied in the field for a period of four years and the simulation model was parameterised (sex ratio, age-specific survival rates, fecundity and dispersal between subpopulations) using field data. A sensitivity analysis revealed that a change in the juvenile yearly survival rate has a relatively larger effect on subpopulation persistence than adult survival rate and fecundity rate have. The probability of subpopulation persistence for one hundred years increased from 0 to 0.6 with a change in juvenile yearly survival rate from 0.35 to 0.40. Varying dispersal rate (from 0 to 1% of the individuals in a subpopulation moving to another subpopulation within a year) showed that four of the five subpopulations are dependent on the last one for persistence, indicating a source-sink structure of the metapopulation. The subpopulation with the highest estimated juvenile survival has a far higher persistence probability than the others; they in turn would go extinct were it not for the occasional input of individuals from the source subpopulation. The source-sink structure was also apparent when simulating the isolation effect of the road: persistence of the subpopulation isolated by the road decreases markedly with only a 20% decrease in the number of individuals dispersing to this pond. Environmental stochasticity decreases persistence time of the source subpopulation, but increases persistence time of the unstable ones. This is probably due to the presence of overcompensating density-dependent factors affecting the subpopulations and to the more general effect of stochasticity: it may temporarily change reproduction and mortality rates, increase time to extinction for unstable subpopulations through a rescue effect; and decrease time to extinction for the more stable subpopulations.
30243231|Both habitat area and predators are known to affect the diversity and composition of species that live in a locality. In addition, habitat area can influence the presence of predators, indirectly affecting the diversity of prey. Thus, habitat area may influence species diversity directly and indirectly through the presence of top predators. Here we examine the effects of habitat area and predators on the species richness and composition of a foliage living arthropod community in a fragmented complex of glades (small grassland patches within a forested matrix) in the Ozark Plateau, Missouri. We find that a top predator, the eastern collared lizard Crotaphytus collaris collaris, occurs primarily on larger glades. Glade area was positively correlated with arthropod diversity, but only after removing the effect of collared lizard presence. Moreover, collared lizards reduced overall arthropod richness, and shifted the dominance from predatory arthropods (e.g. spiders) and Orthopteran grasshoppers to Homopterans (planthoppers). This study shows the importance of accounting for variation in the presence of a top predator when studying the effect of landscape-level processes on species richness and composition.
3683714|The density and productivity of peregrine falcon Falco peregrinus populations correlate positively with distance from the Equator, while habitat specificity increases with proximity to the Equator. Low peregrine densities in the tropics may be a result of competition with similar congeners (e.g. the lanner falcon F. biarmicus in Africa), which replace them in many areas. Alternatively, tropical peregrines may be limited by resource deficiencies that do not affect their close relatives. Data from peregrine and lanner populations in South Africa support the resource deficiency hypothesis, and there is no evidence to suggest direct competition between the two species. In areas where prey are not spatially or temporally concentrated, or otherwise particularly vulnerable to attack, morphological and behavioural specializations of peregrines probably restrict them to optimal foraging conditions. The relative dynamics of Arctic and temperate vs tropical prey populations is suggested as an important factor determining peregrine distribution globally. Populations of other widespread but particularly specialized avian predators (e.g. osprey Pandion haliaetus) may be similarly controlled. Food limitation (in terms of a dearth of particularly vulnerable prey) in the tropics has resulted in specialization and rarity in peregrines and generalization and relative abundance in similar congeners.
3683258|A Geographic Information System (GIS) is used to model plant distributions. The model is based on annual mean temperature, humidity, and a georeferenced specimen data base and predicts potential and probable distribution for each taxa in the data base. Potential distribution range is suitable area determined by climatic constraints. Probable distribution range is here defined as the part of the potential range where a taxon is most likely to be found based on distance to existing collections. Gridded estimates of climatic parameters were calculated based on a Digital Elevation Model and data from ca 100 weather stations. The palm family in Ecuador was used to demonstrate the model. Potential and probable distribution ranges were calculated for each of the 127 Ecuadorian palm species. Maps of potential and probable species richness were calculated by overlaying and accumulating individual distribution maps. Potential species richness was highest in the Amazon lowland where it reached 60 species and lowest in the higher parts of the Andes and drier parts of the coastal plain. The probable species richness followed a similar pattern but was nowhere higher than 47 species. The ratio between potential species richness and probable species richness was used to find areas that are insufficiently sampled.
3683141|We examined spatial patterns and spatial autocorrelation (synchrony) of annual acorn production in three species of oaks (genus Quercus) over a 288 km transect in central coastal California. Over small (within-site) distances of < 4 km, synchrony of acorn production between individual trees was significant but varied through time and, for coast live oaks Q. agrifolia, differed at two sites 135 km apart. On a larger geographic scale, valley Q. lobata and blue Q. douglasii oaks exhibited significant synchrony in most distance categories between trees and sites up to 135 km apart and, in the case of coast live oaks, up to the maximum extent of the transect. Spatial patterns over this geographic scale also differed among species, with valley and blue oaks, but not coast live oaks, exhibiting distinct declines in synchrony of acorn production with distance. Interspecific synchrony in acorn production was generally lower than that within species but still significant over the entire extent of the survey. Spatial synchrony between sites was to some extent related to the same environmental variables previously found to correlate with annual acorn production within a site, suggesting that the environmental factors determining acorn production locally also influence spatial patterns over larger geographic areas. These results demonstrate that mast-fruiting in oaks occurs not only on a widespread geographic scale but also across species. They also confirm that synchrony over large geographic areas and complex spatial patterns varying in time can occur in systems where dispersal does not occur and thus environmental variability (the Moran effect) alone is likely to be driving spatial dynamics.
3683742| There is a relative paucity of data regarding the at-sea distribution and behaviour of marine turtles. This is especially true for the critically endangered green turtle Chelonia mydas population in the Mediterranean. Six adult female green turtles were equipped with satellite transmitters and tracked for periods of between 28 and 293 d following their final nesting of the season in northern Cyprus. Data elucidated hitherto unknown migratory pathways and highlighted the importance of North African coastal waters as feeding habitat for adults of this species. For three individuals, instruments transmitted detailed information on dive depth, dive duration and water temperature which afforded novel insights into behaviour during different stages of migration, feeding in the foraging grounds and most remarkably, during a period of midwinter diapause when water temperatures were generally below 25C. Turtles showed fidelity to specific shallow inshore feeding areas and moved offshore to deeper wintering sites. 
30243253|The congruence in floristic patterns between different life-forms of woody plants remains poorly understood in tropical rain forests. We explored whether the floristic patterns of woody plants, divided into small trees 2.5-10 cm dbh, large trees 10 cm dbh, and lianas 2.5 cm dbh were associated with each other or with patterns in soil properties, elevation, and geographical distances between sample plots. We also tested whether ecological amplitudes in relation to environmental variables differed among the plant groups. Trees and lianas were inventoried in 44 0.1-ha plots, distributed among three lowland and two submontane sites in the Madidi National Park, Bolivia. Soil samples were analysed for physico-chemical properties. Floristic differences between sites (as measured with each plant group separately) yielded significant Mantel correlations with each other, and with pH, Ca, Mg, elevation and geographical distance. Mantel correlations with edaphic distances were higher for large trees than small trees, but for Mantel correlations with geographical distance the situation was reversed. Environmental and geographical distances explained 31% of the variation in floristic differences for large trees, 22% for small trees, and 10% for lianas. The ecological amplitudes of lianas were wider than those of all trees for pH, Mg and elevation. The amplitudes of the two size classes of trees did not differ. In principal coordinates ordination, the three plant groups produced similar overall floristic patterns that were explainable by environmental factors.
30243229|In recent years many field studies have been conducted to assess the relative importance of facilitation and competition in structuring vegetation communities in different environments. Herein, we present a simulation model which systematically explores the relative importance of intra-specific facilitation and competition between adult shrubs and seedlings for spatial pattern formation. A grid-based simulation model was constructed and calibrated using data collected in the field from Sarcopoterium spinosum populations in Israel to simulate population dynamics along a rainfall gradient. A series of simulation experiments was conducted in which manipulations of seedling survival probabilities were carried out to assess the relative importance of these processes in generating spatial patterns. Increased survival probabilities of first-year shrubs in open areas were used to simulate competition effects, while increased survival probabilities in the vicinity of shrubs were used to simulate facilitation effects. Simulation results were then compared to shrub spatial patterns observed in the field. The results indicate that facilitation is not an important process in generating intra-specific spatial patterns. Rather, in mesic environments with high precipitation, competition is the dominant process generating spatial patterns, resulting in regular spacing of shrubs, similarly to the patterns observed in the field (L(h) values <0). In arid sites, where precipitation values are lower, and stress conditions are higher, the dominant process generating spatial patterns was random mortality due to drought conditions. The resulting spatial patterns in this case are random (L(h)  0), whereas observed field populations exhibited clumped patterns (L(h) >0). We conclude that as stress conditions increase, the importance of intraspecific neighborhood interactions decrease whereas the importance of environmental factors increase in dictating intra-specific spatial pattern formation. Consequently in mesic environments intra-specific competition among adults determines the emerging patterns, while intraspecific facilitation is a negligible process.
30243211|The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of environmental (associated with the expansion of cattle ranching) and biogeographical factors on the diversity of dung beetle (Scarabaeinae) assemblages along three altitudinal gradients in the Neotropical region. One gradient is located in the Mexican Transition Zone, on the Cofre de Perote mountain, the other two are in the northern Andes (the Chiles Volcano and the Ro Cusiana Basin). For the three gradients, the number of species decreased as altitude increased. On the Cofre de Perote, regardless of altitude, the number of species and of individuals was similar in both forest and pasture, while species composition was different between habitats. On this mountain, species turnover in pastures was characterized by the addition of new species as altitude increased. In the northern Andes, species diversity was always greater in the forest than in the pasture, and species turnover between habitats was notably influenced by species loss with increasing altitude. As such the pasture fauna of the northern Andes was an impoverished derivative of the fauna present in the forests at the same altitude characterized by species of Neotropical affinity with a limited capacity for colonizing open, sunnier habitats. The opposite occurs in the areas used by cattle on the Cofre de Perote. This habitat has its own fauna, which is mainly comprised of Holarctic and Afrotropical species adapted to the prevailing environmental conditions of areas lacking arboreal vegetation. These results suggest that the impact on beetle communities caused by human activities can differ depending on the geographic position of each mountain and, particularly, the biogeographical history of the species assemblage that lives there.
30244520|Ancient and dead trees are declining habitats harbouring many threatened species. These habitats are naturally patchy, and inhabiting species might exhibit metapopulation dynamics at a small spatial scale. In this study, the demography and metapopulation dynamics was analysed for Osmoderma eremita, which is an endangered beetle species associated with tree hollows in Europe. Extinction risks of O. eremita populations were predicted using Monte Carlo simulations based on time series of population assessments. Predicted occurrence patterns were consistent with field observations from an area with many small stands in which the populations are believed to have been more or less isolated from each other during the last 150-200 yr. Population growth was found to be density dependent. Carrying capacity was proportional to the volume of wood mould (i.e. loose material of dead wood in the tree hollows), which varied widely between hollow trees. This generates large differences in local extinction risks between hollow trees. The predicted metapopulation extinction risk was much higher if the habitat dynamics (formation, gradual increase and deterioration of tree hollows) were taken into consideration than in predictions yielded by models in which the amount of wood mould was assumed to be constant over time. Thus, this system has features from both mainland-island metapopulations and habitat-tracking metapopulations, and is rather far from a classic metapopulation. For the long-term persistence of the species in hollow trees, the habitat dynamics seem to be more important than demographic processes. Since the formation and deterioration of suitable tree are partly stochastic processes, there is a considerable extinction risk for many O. eremita populations, because they mainly rely on only one or a few trees with large amounts of wood mould.
3683711| The lizard Lacerta (Zootoca) vivipara has two modes of reproduction and is variable karyologically. We describe its karyological variation from literature data and from new data on two viviparous populations from France, on two oviparous populations from the Pyrnes in south-western France and on three oviparous populations recently discovered in Slovenia. Males have 36 chromosomes, whereas females have only 35 chromosomes in all viviparous populations and in the Pyrenean oviparous populations. This karyotype has been interpreted to result from a fusion of an ancestral sexual W chromosome with an autosome from the Z1 or from the Z2 pair. The karyotype formula is 32 autosomes +Z1Z2W for the female and 32 autosomes +Z1Z1Z2Z2 for the male. The karyotype of the Slovenian oviparous populations, 34 autosomes +ZZ in the male and 34 autosomes +ZW in the female, represents an evolutionary stage that preceded the chromosomal fusion. There is minor karyological variation, mainly concerning the W and Z2 chromosomes, within the Pyrenean oviparous populations. This parallels the geographic variation of the W-linked alleles of the MPI enzyme and suggests that allopatric differentiation of these oviparous populations might have occurred in the vicinity of the Pyrnes during the Pleistocene. The viviparous populations from western Europe carry a metacentric W chromosome, whereas oviparous populations from south-western Europe and eastern viviparous populations both show an acrocentric, or a subtelocentric, W chromosome. This suggests that the acrocentric-subtelocentric W is a primitive character and that viviparity probably arose in an eastern lineage of the species. 
30243161|A decline in abundance towards a species' range boundary is often interpreted as evidence of a decline in individual success, and is usually assumed to reflect a decline in suitable environmental conditions. Gradual declines towards high latitude range boundaries are frequently attributed to limitations on organismal tolerance of cold temperature. Rarely have these two assumptions been empirically tested. The intertidal gastropod Collisella scabra declines monotonically in abundance from 435 to <1 m over the northern 300 km of its geographic distribution. I examined temperature, adult performance (survival, growth, reproduction), and recruitment at five locations in this region of decline. Mortality ranged from 4.9 to 11.2% per month, but was highest at the lowest latitude study site. Growth rates ranged from 0 to 5.2 mm yr, but were generally lower at lower latitude sites. Gonad development was high in the three populations examined, but the possibility of infrequent spawning at high latitude sites could not be excluded. Finally, a comparison of performance differences among populations with temperature revealed clear effects of temperature on both growth and mortality; however, the patterns were not consistent with a hypothesis of cold stress at the range boundary. Overall there was little evidence for either reduced performance or increasing cold stress in low density high latitude populations. Over the same 300 km, recruitment declined monotonically from a mean of six recruits per 625 cm to less than one; suggesting that limitations on recruitment, rather that adult performance, are responsible for low abundance in marginal populations. Several hypotheses for the decline in recruitment are discussed in the paper and the most likely explanation appears to be an increase in the distance between populations at the range margin, reducing the chances that dispersing larvae find suitable habitat for settlement.
30243195|The assumption that the description of any system depends on spatial and temporal scale has moved researchers to incorporate scale as another factor in determining the mechanisms explaining species diversity and distribution. Although most researchers agree that processes that occur at different spatial and temporal scales affect ecological communities, empirical support is still scarce. In this paper, we seek to discern whether the relationship between abundance, biomass, and species diversity, on the one hand, and habitat heterogeneity, on the other, holds across temporal and spatial scales. Moreover, we analyse whether the pattern/variation found depends on the taxonomic level, and the diversity index used. To answer these questions, we sampled arthropod assemblages across three nested temporal and spatial scales. In general, we found variability in the responses to habitat heterogeneity across scales according to the assemblage descriptor, the taxonomic level selected, and the diversity index used. Our results suggest that generalization is difficult and extrapolation should be made with caution. Moreover, the use of more than one diversity index would provide additional and complementary information about species-distribution patterns and the mechanisms generating these patterns.
3683585|The relationship between island biogeography and the vulnerability of island biota to extinction as a result of human activities was examined. In particular, this study analyzed whether island area, maximum elevation of an island, isolation from the nearest continental landmass, or date of human colonization had statistically significant relationships with the proportion of endemic island bird species that have become endangered or extinct. The study examined islands or island groups with endemic bird species, and which have never been connected to a continental landmass. Both modern and fossil bird species were incorporated into the analysis. Islands that were colonized by humans earliest had the lowest proportion of modern species alone, and modern and fossil species combined, that have gone extinct. However, date of human arrival was not correlated with the proportion of modern species that are endangered. Maximum elevation of an island was negatively correlated with the proportion of modern species that are extinct, and was positively correlated with the proportion of modern species that are endangered. Area was negatively correlated with the proportion of modern species that are endangered. Isolation of islands was not significantly correlated with the proportion of modern species extinct or endangered, but was positively correlated with the proportion of modern and fossil species combined that have gone extinct. These results indicate that the initial spasm of island bird extinctions due to human contact may have, in part, passed. They also indicate that bird species on islands colonized earliest by humans may have had more time to adapt to the presence of man and his commensal species, resulting in reduced extinction rates.
3683795|Temperate semi-natural grasslands are known for their high plant species richness at small spatial scales. We examined the variation in small-scale species richness in a sample of 63 sites from Swedish semi-natural grasslands, located as fragments in the modern landscape dominated by forest and agricultural land. Data were obtained from two spatial scales at each site,
3683751|This study examines the effects of resource distribution on colonisation, intra- and interspecific aggregation, and the occurrence of low-density, competition refuges for tropical dung beetles. In field experiments from central Peru, using dung pats (resource patches) of different volumes, the numbers of interacting species and total beetle biomass at individual pats increased with increasing pat volume. In two of three separate experiments (including an experiment that also varied patch density), this represented a decrease in the biomass of beetles per unit volume (biomass-density) at larger patches. The numbers of interacting tunneller species and tunneller biomass-density were also related to the distance between pats (patch density) in one of two experiments with constant numbers of pats. Closely positioned pats had generally fewer interacting species and a lower biomass-density of beetles. For the most abundant Dichotomius species, interspecific associations increased as distances increased between dung pats. The numbers of interacting species and biomass-density declined linearly under the combined effects of increasing patch density and local patch abundance in 25 m<sup>2</sup> plots. In experimentally placed grids with large numbers of pats, colonisation of pats at the edge of the grids was generally higher than at the centre of the grids for tunnellers and Eurysternus spp. but not for ball rollers; however, at least tunnellers did not readjust to avoid patches with high densities of competitors. These results indicate that an aggregated distribution of dung and natural variability in patch size contribute to species coexistence by creating low-density refuges for weaker competitors.
3683371|Confined within a volcanic caldera at 2000 m a.s.l., the sub-alpine desert of Tenerife, Canary Islands, harbors a distinct biota. At this altitude the climate is harsh and the growing season short. Hence, plant and animal communities, constituting the sub-alpine plant-flower-visitor network, are clearly delimited, both spatially and temporally. We investigated species composition and interaction structure of this system. A total of 11 plant species (91% endemics) and 37 flower-visiting animal species (62% endemics) formed 108 interactions. Numbers of interactions among species varied ten-fold within both plant and animal communities. Generalization level of a species was positively correlated with its local abundance. Two separate network analyses revealed a significantly nested structure. In relation to a plant-flower-visitor system, nestedness implies that specialized species (animals or plants) interact with a subset of the species pool visiting (animals) or being visited (plants) by more generalized species. Therefore, specialized, locally rare plants tend to be visited by generalized, locally abundant animals, and specialized, locally rare animals tend to utilize generalized, locally abundant food plants. Such patterns could have implications for conservation of the sub-alpine network, and stress the importance of preserving not only rare species, but also the more abundant ones, which may be key food resources or pollinators in the plant-flower-visitor network.
30244615|The ecological influence of changes in the functional guild and species composition of ant assemblages on ant-dispersal mutualisms is still poorly known. Using a multi-scale approach over an 800 km range within the Iberian Peninsula, we tested the hypothesis that variation in seed removal rate was related to functional guild rather than to species composition variations of disperser assemblages in the myrmecochore herb Helleborus foetidus. At least two premises must be confirmed to validate this hypothesis: 1) ant assemblages that are dissimilar in species composition but with similar functional guild composition will not differ significantly in seed removal, and 2) assemblages with different functional guild composition will render different seed removal services. We conducted 3328 ant-visitor censuses on 462 individual plants to identify both the species composition and functional guild variation of the ant-disperser assemblage, and the plant seed removal rate. Functional guild composition of the ant assemblage was determined by the proportion of visits of ants acting as legitimate dispersers, facultative dispersers or elaiosome predators. Results showed that ant-seed dispersal success seemed to be more sensitive to species composition changes of the ant assemblage than to functional guild shifts. However, this sensitivity was scale-dependent. Thus, at the fine, inter-individual scale, seed removal covaried with the species and functional guild composition of the ant assemblages; at the inter-populational scale, differences in seed removal tended to be related to the dissimilarity of the assemblage species composition rather than the assemblage functional guild; finally, inter-regional differences in seed removal were unrelated to dissimilarities of the ant assemblage composition or functional guild. Though differences in seed removal and the relative frequency of the legitimate dispersers tended to be positively correlated, none of the above premises were fully confirmed in this study. Therefore, our results did not support in full the hypothesis that the variation in seed removal was explained by shifts in functional guild composition, rather than shifts in species composition.
3682961|The large ground-dwelling bush cricket Decticus verrucivorus is widespread in continental Europe, but declining at the northern edge of its range. This paper defines the species' habitat requirements in northern Europe by describing the distribution of each of the seven nymphal instars and adults in relation to vegetation structure within a chalk grassland in southern England. First instars were strongly associated with short, sparse turf, reflecting the oviposition behaviour of females. Subsequent early instars were also found in short, open turf, but at the fifth moult a distinct shift in distribution to dense grass tussocks occurred. Late instars and adults were strongly associated with these structures, probably to avoid vertebrate predators. Mean temperatures within tussocks were lower than in short turf, but these highly mobile stages actively thermoregulate by basking on the sides of tussocks. In contrast, areas of short turf may be crucial for the development of the smaller and less mobile early instars and eggs. It is concluded that a fine mosaic of closely-grazed turf, dense tussocks and intermediate structures must be created and/or maintained at the species northern-most sites, if its present distribution is not to contract.
3683102|The relationship between dung pad size and both adult colonisation and larval development was investigated in an assemblage of north temperate dung beetles (Geotrupes, Aphodius and Sphaeridium) using both dung pads and baited pitfall traps. Wet weight of 22-day-old natural dung pads was found to vary widely in the field (< 100 g- > 1000 g). Across all sampling dates in field experiments, dung pad size had a significant influence on dung beetle biomass sampled from pads. Closer examination of experimental dung pads on the second day after deposition, when beetle biomass was at a maximum, revealed not only a general positive relationship between pad size and dung beetle biomass but, more importantly, a positive relationship between dung pad size and dung beetle density (dung beetle biomass per unit dung volume). There was a strong trend for Aphodius species richness to increase, and maintain higher values for longer periods of time, in larger pads. Although dung pad and pitfall trap samples could differ in the actual numbers of beetles captured, the relationship between different dung sizes and dung beetle biomass was similar, indicating that the phenomenon is largely related to immigration processes. Pat residence times of A. rufipes in the laboratory were significantly positively correlated with dung pad size. In two field experiments, positive correlations were found between dung pad size and numbers of larvae in pads of different sizes and in one of these experiments, larval densities (numbers per unit dung volume) were significantly and positively correlated with dung pad size. In one experiment, Aphodius larvae in the early stages of development were found to preferentially occupy the basal area of dung pads. We discuss the implications of our findings in the context of resource utilisation by north temperate dung beetles.
30243123|Many organisms are aggregated within resource patches and aggregated spatially across landscapes with multiple resources. Such patchy distributions underpin models of population regulation and species coexistence, so ecologists require methods to analyse spatially-explicit data of resource distribution and use. I describe a method for analysing maps of resources and testing hypotheses about how resource distribution influences the distribution of organisms, where resource patches can be described as points in a landscape and the number of organisms on each resource point is known. Using a mark correlation function and the linearised form of Ripley's K-function, this version of marked point pattern analysis can characterise and test hypotheses about the spatial distribution of organisms (marks) on resource patches (points). The method extends a version of point pattern analysis that has wide ecological applicability, it can describe patterns over a range of scales, and can detect mixed patterns. Statistically, Monte Carlo permutations are used to estimate the difference between the observed and expected values of the mark correlation function. Hypothesis testing employs a flexible neutral landscape approach in which spatial characteristics of point patterns are preserved to some extent, and marks are randomised across points. I describe the steps required to identify the appropriate neutral landscape and apply the analysis. Simulated data sets illustrate how the choice of neutral landscape can influence ecological interpretations, and how this spatially-explicit method and traditional dispersion indices can yield different interpretations. Interpretations may be general or context-sensitive, depending on information available about the underlying point pattern and the neutral landscape. An empirical example of caterpillars exploiting food plants illustrates how this technique might be used to test hypotheses about adult oviposition and larval dispersal. This approach can increase the value of survey data, by making it possible to quantify the distribution of resource points in the landscape and the pattern of resource use by species.
3683192|Summer habitat use by three species of forest small mammals was determined using tracking stations. Nocturnal weather influenced habitat selection by deer mice and woodland jumping mice but not by red-backed voles. Deer mice used all habitats equally on clear nights but were most active in mixed forest on cloudy, rainless nights and most active in a coniferous habitat on rainy nights. Jumping mice were most active in mixed forest on clear and rainy nights but shifted to coniferous forest on cloudy dry nights. Red-backed voles were most active in the coniferous habitat regardless of weather. Microhabitat preferences within habitats reflected the same preferences as habitat selection. Microhabitat selection by jumping mice also changes with weather. The mechanism most likely responsible for the observed habitat selection changes is changing insect abundance associated with cloud cover and rainfall.
3682966|Patterns of rodent seed predation in extensive cereal croplands of central Spain were investigated by measuring rodent predation rates on artificial seed patches, together with seed availability, rodent abundance and habitat physiognomy. Sampling was designed to cope with the spatial and temporal variability of factors potentially affecting rodent activity (natural and man-made habitat features, season and moonlight). Rodent predation was unpredictably distributed in summer. In winter, rodents foraged on average in the patches least used by man; moonlight, however, did alter this pattern, so that rodent predation was closely associated with shrubs in the bright nights and evenly distributed in the dark ones. I conclude that the need of stable underground refuges and predation risk in the winter period seemed to be the main factors constraining rodent foraging activity in the man-made ecosystem studied.
3683326|The pattern of distribution and abundance of woody plants colonizing old fields is influenced by landscape spatial features, in particular, by the distance from the old field to propagule sources and the size of the habitat patches undergoing succession. Colonization is also influenced by species life history traits, such as dispersal mode, growth form, and fecundity. As part of a long-term project studying effects of habitat fragmentation on secondary succession at the prairie-forest ecotone, we have examined the colonization patterns of early-successional woody plants in an experimentally fragmented old field, with emphasis on the three woody species [Cornus drummondii C. A. Mey (rough-leaved dogwood), Ulmus rubra Muhl. (slippery elm), and Juniperus virginiana L. (red cedar)], which currently dominate the woody community on the site. The shapes of the colonization curve (proportion of colonized quadrats vs time) differed between C. drummondii and U. rubra. The rate of colonization by C. drummondii showed a pattern of acceleration after its initial colonization, consistent with rapid in situ recruitment from clonal growth and early seed production. By contrast, colonization by U. rubra fits a roughly linear pattern, consistent with recruitment only from external propagule sources. For both C. drummondii and U. rubra, density is currently greater in large patches than in small patches. No patch size difference was found for J. virginiana. The stem density of both C. drummondii and U. rubra exponentially decreased with distance to external propagule sources. The negative exponential pattern of U. rubra (wind-dispersed) with distance is sharper than that of C. drummondii (bird-dispersed). Moreover, the amount of spatial variation in density explained by distance to source is greater on small patches. Our results highlight the importance of life history traits of colonizing species and spatial aspects of habitat during succession.
30244629|Plants often show a patchy distribution. This can be related to the discontinuous distribution of environmental variables that define suitable habitat. Metapopulation theory suggests that additional patchiness may be caused by the dynamics of local extinctions and recolonisations. However, the contribution of these two mechanisms to explaining the observed patterns, and thus the applicability of metapopulation theory to plants remains controversial partly because population turnover may occur at long time-scales not usually covered by ecological studies. We analyzed the role of environmental variation and population turnover in determining the distribution of two Brassica species, an annual and a perennial, along 44 km of coastline in Dorset, UK. Mapped occurrence and abundance of both species in recent years was compared with distributions from a 70 yr-old dataset and a survey of present-day environmental parameters. Abiotic and vegetation parameters were correlated with the occurrence of both species in binary logistic regression models and explained spatial auto-correlation in the Brassica distributions. These regression models suggest that neither species is occupying all potential habitat in the region studied. The relationship between historical and present distributions differed between the species. While an historical signal was very weak in the annual B. nigra, it had a large influence in predicting the present distribution of the perennial B. oleracea. This suggests local extinction and colonisation events for B. nigra over the 70 yr period, but not for B. oleracea which showed little evidence of population turnover. Our results demonstrate that the consideration of large time-scales can reveal patterns of regional dynamics. We conclude that metapopulation dynamics might be possible for our annual but can be ruled out for our perennial study species over the past 70 yr. We argue that beyond this time-scale possible metapopulation dynamics may be overridden by faster processes of environmental change.
3682840|We used trail records on sand surface within non-wildlife passages to test whether foxes and wildcats used them regularly, and to identify passage features which may favour crossing across a railway and, therefore, may alleviate possible barrier effects. Both species crossed more in places and periods corresponding with assumed peaks in abundance and mobility, thus supporting the regular use hypothesis. The vicinity of cover favoured crossing, but both species used infrequently passages near permanent sources of human perturbation (especially intense traffic) even in suitable habitats with abundant cover. The presence of cover in the passage entrances further favoured fox and wildcat crossing. Cover near entrances may be particularly important to improve carnivore crossing chances in open habitats and when human activity levels are high. Passage design and dimensions had little effect on crossing rates. Location of passages within or close to suitable habitats explained a greater amount of variance in crossing rates than favourable passage features. There was a remarkable similarity in the behaviour of foxes and wildcats, possibly representing the rule for other carnivore species.
30243119|Nestedness is frequently investigated to understand complex patterns of species occurrences. Temperature (T) is commonly used for comparisons of nestedness of different-sized datasets. However, the assumptions made for the standardization of this metric have not been fully explored, particularly the effects of endemicity. Here we show that T incorrectly indicates an increase in nestedness with the addition of nonnested endemics to matrices that are not perfectly nested - a consequence of standardizing matrix size by the product of species and sites. This problem is common both to test matrices and to real matrices that are typically subjected to nestedness analyses. The latter are often characterized by substantial numbers of endemics and by variation in the numbers of endemics in different taxa. Standardizing by occupancy resolves this problem, which is demonstrated using a derivative of discrepancy, dl. A small modification to T, such that it standardizes matrices by occupancy, would resolve the current problems with this nestedness metric.
3683458|The effect of a forest harvesting system whereby small (typically 0.1-2.0 ha) patches of standing timber are retained inside of harvests, was compared to conventional clearcutting for its effect on ground beetle assemblages. Two seasons of pitfall trapping entailed 46451 trap days, and yielded 15799 individuals of 28 species; abundance was dominated by four species comprising 92.4% of the catch. Most species were known to have wide geographic distributions in Canada and Alaska but many species seemed to respond to disturbance on a site-specific basis. Contrary to findings of similar studies, no species could be characterized as "mature-forest specialists", or "forest generalists". Forest patches and edge habitats immediately inside the forest canopy contained assemblages more closely related to mature forest than to cleared areas. Harvested areas with patches yielded catches distinct from typical clearcuts, based primarily on changes in abundance of one common species. Climatic regimes and landscape disturbance levels were the two important factors distinguishing our study from others, and we have suggested that these may influence the degree to which patches are an effective conservation tool.
3683202|Because of the damage some do, including threatening biodiversity, invasive species are a current focus of interest, particularly outside Europe. Yet invasion biology is still struggling to become analytic. Progress has been made in quantifying the proportion of invaders that succeed in various ways, and in measuring the degree of that success. Several examples, where the course of invasion has been explained, show the variation in biological processes involved. A detailed analysis, often with experiments and modelling, is necessary for a satisfactory explanation. Prediction is harder than explanation. Attempts at predicting invasions have generally been unsatisfactory. Ten reasons that may contribute to this are discussed. Progress will require defining more precisely what is to be predicted and measuring more quantitatively the ecological properties of species. Even so, predicting the ecological behaviour of a species in a new environment may be effectively impossible.
30244605|Positive interactions are important in influencing communities. Facilitation is one such influence in which a species makes the environment more suitable for others species. Ecological engineers are powerful facilitators as they physically modify habitats in a way that alters resource availability. We studied the effect of beaver flooding on breeding success of a dabbling duck, the teal. Our long-term (1988-2001) study was conducted in a boreal area where dabbling ducks face resource limitation. We focused on two aspects of facilitation: resource enhancement and habitat amelioration. We found that pond use by teal broods systematically increased upon beaver flooding. Beaver ponds harboured more resources, i.e. aquatic invertebrates than undisturbed waters, and invertebrate abundance was reflected as enhanced teal brood density. Beaver inundated shores were shallower than those of other waters, making their habitat structure more favourable to ducklings. Consequently, teal brood mortality was lower in beaver ponds than in waters unaffected by beaver. In boreal areas beaver facilitate teal breeding by enhancing both resource abundance and habitat structure.
3682821| The distribution of niches in resource space and the niche patterns of a 14-species community of Middle Asian desert rodents were studied during two years - at low and high rodent density - using discriminant function analysis. Nineteen quantitative environmental parameters (soil structure and vegetation), measured in 550 plots within 22 1-ha grids, were considered. The first three canonical axes of resource space account for 72% of the variance. The first two axes represent complex environmental gradients: the first axis represents a general landscape gradient from sand to clay soils, the second axis reflects a gradient of increasing productivity. The third axis reflects within-habitat environmental variation. All community parameters, as well as parameters of individual species niches, were unstable between years. At the same time, different parameters vary in different extent. Position of niche centroids along macrohabitat axes, as well as macrohabitat niche breadth, were relatively stable between years, but these parameters for microhabitat axis and values of niche overlap were much more variable. A strong correlation between changes in relative between-habitat niche breadth and differences in average niche overlap with relative changes in species abundances indicate density dependence of these parameters. Changes in niche overlap is a consequence of between-year differences in guild patterns. Guild structure was pronounced at high density when the level of niche overlap was intermediate. At low density, when the level of niche overlap decreased, guild structure was inconspicous. Different levels of diversity differed in their sensitivity to density changes. -diversity was relatively constant as a result of between-year stability of niche centroid positions. However level of -diversity varied significantly between years reflecting changes in the level of niche overlap, because a decrease in niche overlap leads to an increase in the rate of species turnover. 
3682877|Erica australis, E. scoparia, E. arborea and Calluna vulgaris are the most abundant heath species on acid, sandstone-derived soils of the Strait of Gibraltar region (southern Spain and northern Morocco). Despite their apparently similar ecological requirements, these four species are somewhat ecologically segregated. Erica australis is abundant only on poor, shallow soils, with a high content in soluble aluminium, generally on mountain ridges and summits. Erica scoparia becomes dominant on deeper sandstone soils with lower aluminium. Calluna vulgaris coexists with these Erica species in communities under low or no tree cover. In the Spanish side of the Strait (Algeciras), Erica arborea tends to be relegated to communities under moderate to dense tree cover, whereas this species is more abundant and widespread in the Moroccan side (Tangier). Tolerance to extreme physical conditions - high aluminium and dense tree cover - and interspecific competition seem to explain the ecological distribution of these four heath species in the Strait of Gibraltar region. The more fragmented pattern of sandstone patches and higher disturbance levels in Tangier might account for the differences in the patterns of ecological distribution of these four heath species between both sides of the Strait of Gibraltar.
3683314|A review is given of recent work on latitudinal gradients in species diversity and their explanations, including Rapoport's rule. Energy input, measured by temperature or potential evapotranspiration, correlates best with the gradients. However, such a correlation does not "explain" them. It merely suggests explanations, which may be either different ceilings to diversity set by different energy levels under equilibrium conditions, recent historical events, or a gradient in effective evolutionary time (determined by speed of evolution directly driven by temperature, and by relative constancy of conditions over evolutionary time) under non-equilibrium conditions. Marine parasites are used to show that equilibrium conditions are the exception rather than the rule among animals. It is concluded that latitudinal gradients in species diversity result from a gradient in effective evolutionary time modulated by several other factors. Dispersal abilities of many marine invertebrates are likely to be greater at low than at high latitudes, suggesting an opposite Rappoport effect.
3683502|The world's obligate cave-dwelling fauna holds considerable promise for biogeographic analysis because it represents a large number of independent evolutionary experiments in isolation in caves and adaptation to subterranean life. We focus on seven north temperate regions of at least <tex-math>$2000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, utilizing more than 4300 records of obligate cave-dwelling terrestrial invertebrates. In North America, highest diversity was found in northeast Alabama while in Europe highest diversity was found in Arige, France, and in southeast Slovenia. Based on these regions as well as more qualitative data from 16 other regions, we hypothesize that a ridge (ca 42-46 in Europe and 34 in North America) of high biodiversity occurs in temperate areas of high productivity and cave density. This may reflect a strong dependence of cave communities on long term surface productivity (as reflected in actual evapotranspiration), because the subterranean fauna relies almost entirely on resources produced outside caves. This dependence may explain the unique biodiversity pattern of terrestrial cave invertebrates.
3683606|In the last decade, we have seen the emergence and consolidation of a conceptual framework that recognizes the landscape as an ecological unit of interest. Plant ecologists have long emphasized landscape-scale issues, but there has been no recent attempt to define how landscape concepts are now integrated in vegetation studies. To help define common research paradigms in both landscape and plant ecology, we discuss issues related to three main landscape concepts in vegetation researches, reviewing theoretical influences and emphasizing recent developments. We first focus on environmental relationships, documenting how vegetation patterns emerge from the influence of local abiotic conditions. The landscape is the physical environment. Disturbances are then considered, with a particular attention to human-driven processes that often overrule natural dynamics. The landscape is a dynamic space. As environmental and historical processes generate heterogeneous patterns, we finally move on to stress current evidence relating spatial structure and vegetation dynamics. This relates to the concept of a landscape as a patch-corridor-matrix mosaic. Future challenges involve: 1) the capacity to evaluate the relative importance of multiple controlling processes at broad spatial scale; 2) better assessment of the real importance of the spatial configuration of landscape elements for plant species and finally; 3) the integration of natural and cultural processes and the recognition of their interdependence in relation to vegetation management issues in human landscapes.
30243209|The length of time land has been available for colonization by plants and other organisms could provide a partial explanation of the contemporary richness gradients of trees. According to this hypothesis, increasing times of land availability entail higher chances of recolonization, which eventually have positive effects on tree richness. To test this, we generated a dataset of the Holarctic trees and evaluated the influence of cell age, a measure of the time since an area became free of ice, on the observed tree richness gradients. We found that cell age is associated with richness in both Europe and North America, after controlling for contemporary climate patterns, suggesting that the historical pattern of glacial retreat in response to post-Pleistocene global warming has left a signal still detectable after at least 14000 yr. The results were consistent using a range of modelling approaches or whether Europe and North America were analyzed separately or in concert. We conclude that, although secondary to contemporary climate, the post-glacial recolonization hypothesis is broadly supported at temperate latitudes.
3682931|Threatened (n = 59) and non-threatened (n = 308) Swedish forest vascular plant taxa were compared with regard to a number of variables, including distribution, site factors, taxonomy, morphology and flowering time. A majority of the threatened taxa occur in the southern deciduous woodlands, which only constitute c. 0.5% of the total forested area in Sweden. There are considerably more threatened taxa in southern than in northern Sweden; a consequence of the successively higher number of forest vascular plants from the north towards the south. Threatened taxa grow in forests with significantly higher soil fertility than non-threatened taxa. Significant differences were also revealed regarding light conditions, soil water conditions and month of flowering. Threatened taxa grow on soils with significantly higher pH and also with slightly more available nitrogen than non-threatened taxa, as measured with Ellenberg indicator values. Forest stands on fertile soils are uncommon in Sweden and they are also very species-rich. Soil-type rarity in combination with high species diversity in these soil types thus partly explain why taxa are included in the Swedish Red data list.
3683480|Intensive forestry practises in the Swedish landscape have led to the loss and fragmentation of stable old-growth habitats. We investigated relationships between landscape composition at multiple scales and the composition of saproxylic beetle assemblages in nine clear-cut, mature managed and old-growth spruce-dominated forest stands in the central boreal zone of Sweden. We set out fresh spruce and birch logs and created spruce snags in 2001-2002 to experimentally test the effects of coarse woody debris (CWD) type and forest management on the composition of early and late successional, and red-listed saproxylic beetle assemblages. We examined effects of CWD availability at 100 m, and landscape composition at 1 and 10 km on saproxylic beetle abundances. Additionally, we tested whether assemblage similarity decreased with increasing distance between sites. We collected beetles from the experimental logs using eclector and window traps in four periods during 2003. CWD was measured and landscape composition data was obtained from maps of remotely sensed data. The composition of saproxylic beetles differed among different CWD substrates and between clear-cuts and the older stand types, however differences between mature managed and old-growth forests were significant only for red-listed species. Assemblage similarities for red-listed species on clear-cuts were more different at greater distances apart, indicating that they have more localised distributions. CWD availability within 100 m of the study sites was rarely important in determining the abundance of species, suggesting that early successional saproxylic beetles can disperse further than this distance. At a larger scale, a large area of suitable stand types within both 1 and 10 km resulted in greater abundances in the study sites for several common and habitat-specific species. The availability of suitable habitat at scales of 1-10 km is thus likely to be important in the survival of many saproxylic species in forestry-fragmented areas.
3683168|The topography of an area affects the animals that live in it. Using digitized topographic maps of our mountainous study area in North Carolina, USA, and using radio telemetry data for locations of black bears Ursus americanus, we tested the hypotheses that topography influences home ranges of black bears and that topography affects access to resources by black bears. Use of space by bears correlated positively with steepness of slope but negatively with relative elevation. The perimeters of bears' home ranges aligned with ridges and valleys more than expected by chance and home ranges were oriented on major topographic features, such as watersheds and basins. Bears' home ranges had lower resource values than was optimal for their home range locations and access to resources was limited by topography. Ignoring topography may lead researchers to misunderstand the ecology and behavior of animals that live in mountainous areas.
3683375| The mean body size of workers of the holarctic ant Leptothorax acervorum increases with latitude. Workers from populations near the Polar Circle were 10% larger than workers from central Europe. This gradient does not appear to be associated with variation in colony size. According to controlled rearing experiments with brood from populations in Cape Kartesh, Karelia (67N) and Erlangen, Germany (49.7N), larger adult body size in boreal populations is not an epiphenomenon of slow cell growth and larger cell size at lower temperatures. Larger workers survived longer without food both at room temperature and < 0C, suggesting that selection for increased fasting endurance in boreal habitats might lead to this Bergmann's rule-like pattern in an ectothermic ant. 
3683420|Understanding the action of filters on the biological trait composition of communities is constrained by the multitude of filter types (e.g. abiotic vs biotic, actual vs historical) that may cause changes of a multitude of traits (e.g. small vs large body size, short vs long life cycle) at a multitude of spatial scales (e.g. continent vs landscape vs local site). Using published data on the as natural as possible abundances and 11 biological traits (described through 63 categories) of 254 European stream invertebrate genera, we assessed how already available knowledge can serve to identify the importance of the action of different types of trait filters at two spatial scales. Therefore, we analysed observed and simulated abundance-weighted trait compositions at the local scale of 384 running water sites (RWS) and at the landscape scale of 14 large biogeographical regions (LER). Actual abiotic filters acted significantly and independently of the taxonomic richness on the invertebrate traits at the RWS- and LER-scale, whereas biotic filters had no significant effect. Evidence for the action of historical trait filters across Europe was only weak at both scales. Size, reproductive cycle, respiration and locomotion technique, feeding habits and vulnerability to disturbance responded to altitude and stream width of the RWS according to existing views about the effects of riparian, physiological, interstitial or disturbance controls of these traits. These controls acted independently on trait categories that did not co-occur within the genera, because correlations of size categories with other trait categories were higher in the abundance-weighted trait array (across communities) than in the original trait array (across genera). Overall, many of the 63 trait categories were scarcely affected by the trait filters considered in this study. Therefore, we briefly discuss potential effects of continental filters and of stream system-specific, local physical filters, as the latter should produce similar trait patterns on a global scale. Our study suggests that analyses of the currently available knowledge can simplify the complicated hypothetical framework on trait filter actions, which sharpens the focus on future research needs.
3683256|We experimentally tested the hypothesis that nest predation rate in hole-nesting birds, especially the common goldeneye Bucephala clangula, was related to the edge between aquatic and terrestrial habitats. We also studied whether nest predation rate was related to habitat patch (lake) size. In three study areas nest-boxes were erected in pairs: one nest-box was erected at the shoreline and the other one inside the forest at a varying distance (range from 14 to 140 m) from the shoreline. One chicken egg was placed in each nest-box (dummy nest). Overall predation rate on dummy nests varied from 34.6% to 52.6% depending on the study area. The pine marten Martes martes was the primary nest predator in all study areas. Daily predation rates did not differ between natural and dummy nests. Predation rate on dummy nests was not related to the distance of the nest-box from the shoreline in any study area. Predation rate was not related to lake size in two study areas but in one area predation rate on dummy nests was lower around largest lakes. However, the result may be accidental and not because of lake size per se because the proportion of forest was exceptionally low in that part of the study area.
30243254|There is a large and growing number of alien species in ecosystems all over the world. In view of this, management efforts should concentrate on invasives that have detrimental effects on native biota. However, action against invasives is often hindered by a lack of relevant ecological information such as the expected distribution and impact of the invader. Our aims were to identify the habitat characteristics that influence ringnecked parakeet abundance in Belgium and to assess the effects of competition for nesting cavities with native hole-nesters. We determined the abundance of parakeets and native hole-nesters in 44 study sites using point counts. We examined the relationship between parakeet numbers and a set of habitat and landscape variables and to assess the effect of competition, we studied the relationships between the number of parakeets and the number of native hole-nesters. We found that parakeet abundance differs between vegetation types based on dominant tree species, and that abundance is higher in forests or parks surrounded by built-up areas. Parakeet numbers were also strongly associated with cavity density, suggesting that this may be a limiting factor. Of the two native hole-nesters considered to be the most vulnerable to competition (nuthatch and starling), we found a negative association with parakeet numbers for the nuthatch only. No relations were found with starlings or any of the other hole-nesting species examined. These findings should be considered in the debate concerning the possible need of action against this species.
3683210| The diversity of ground-beetle communities (Coleoptera, Carabidae) was studied to assess the short-term impact of new hedges planted in an intensive agro-ecosystem. Hedges represent a new and undisturbed habitat for those polyphagous predators and may provide increased prey availability. Carabids were sampled with pitfall traps in a hedge and an adjacent cultivated field during the whole activity period of these insects to assess the effect of distance from the hedge on species diversity. Fenced pitfall traps were also used to estimate absolute population densities. Several diversity indices were calculated at various sampling levels (total area, distance treatment, trap). Kendall's coefficient of rank correlation between communities at adjacent distances showed that the greatest changes in species relative abundances occurred close to the hedge. Indices of species richness, dominance concentration, equitability and Fisher's  all indicated a significant decrease in species diversity with increasing distance from the hedge. These trends are explained by two complementary factors. First, the number of species decreased significantly with distance from the centre of the hedge. Second, the various species had different spatial patterns of total capture and absolute density. Four groups of species can thus be distinguished: species restricted to the hedge, species preferring the hedge, species preferring the crop, and species unaffected by the hedge. The respective roles of small-scale abiotic changes in habitat structure and differences in prey availability are discussed. 
30244569|We examined how population density, winter weather, snow conditions, and 2 large-scale climatic indices (North Atlantic Oscillation, NAO, and Arctic Oscillation, AO) influenced demography (reproduction and mortality) in an alpine herd of semi-domesticated reindeer Rangifer tarandus between 1959 and 2000 in Finnish Lapland. The herd lived on heavily grazed lichen pastures, with winter densities between 0.8 and 3.9 individuals km. Icing conditions occurred every 7th yr, on an average, and decreased reproductive rate (calves/females) by 49%. In general linear models icing remarkably increased the fit of snow models to reproductive rate. Incorporation of an interaction term between icing and the snow depth index provided better fit than a model without interaction. Delayed snowmelt decreased reproductive rate. For the day of snowmelt, however, the model without interaction was better than the interaction model. These 3 models provided the best fit to the data and accounted for 51-54% of the variation in reproductive rate. Winter mortality was related to density and large-scale climatic indices, but not to local winter weather except a slight increase in mortality during an icing winter. The best model for winter mortality, including reindeer density and NAO, accounted for 26% of variation in mortality. Three factors may be involved explaining weak density dependence or the lack of such dependence; climate change scenarios that predict higher winter temperature, more frequent thawing-freezing periods, and deeper snow would be expected to decrease reproductive rate and increase winter mortality of reindeer and thus to reduce profitability of reindeer husbandry. In contrast, early springs would be advantageous for reindeer in the short term.
3683560|This paper analyses how landscape pattern detection changes when different spatial and temporal scales and several levels of detail of the cartography are used to describe a landscape affected by land abandonment in northern Spain. In order to integrate landscape composition and structure at different temporal and spatial scales in the same framework, a multiple correspondence factorial analysis was ran for each typology of landscape units. Annual rates of change and scale dependencies were calculated for each typology from the Euclidean distances in the factorial space. Finally, the potential assessment of habitat utilisation by species with different landscape perception and movement capacity was modelled for the range of typologies. The amount of variance explained by the factorial analysis decreased with the complexity of the typology. Annual rates of change appeared different according to the time span and the detail of the landscape unit typology used. For all typologies, changes were faster during 1983-95, a period characterised by massive land abandonment. However, when the whole period (1956-95) was considered, annual changes were much lower, showing differences between typologies. As a general trend, the variance of the mean annual change decreased with the size of the analysis units. In response to land abandonment, different scale dependencies were found for different levels of detail of the cartography. Coarser typologies are suitable when analysing highly mobile species. However, species with small movement capacity or with a preference for homogeneous habitats perceive more detail in landscape. In this case, a detailed typology is more appropriate.
3682977|The persistence of populations of short-lived species requires regular reproduction and seedling establishment. A persistent seed bank can buffer populations against extinction in unfavourable years. We experimentally investigated seed fate in Gentianella germanica, an endangered biennial species characteristic for species-rich nutrient-poor calcareous grasslands in central Europe. We studied the effect of experimental gaps on seedling establishment from sown seeds and the fate of seeds buried in bags over two years. In December 1993 experiments were established at seven calcareous grassland sites in the Swiss Jura mountains. In spring 1994 seedlings emerged in all plots where seeds had been sown, including previously unoccupied patches. This suggests that limited dispersal within sites contributes to small population sizes. Significantly more seedlings emerged at sites with current populations of G. germanica than at unoccupied sites (5.95% vs 3.40%). Because this difference was not explained by germinations from the natural seed bank it indicates differences in habitat quality. Clipping of the vegetation and disturbance of the soil reduced vegetation cover in the following spring and enhanced seedling emergence. In undisturbed plots 4.5% of seeds sown produced a seedling in spring 1994, whereas in plots with clipped vegetation 9.9% and in disturbed plots 12.7% produced seedlings (p < 0.01). This suggests that management measures which create gaps in the vegetation (e.g. grazing) could positively influence population size and persistence of G. germanica. On average, we recovered 7.55% viable seeds after one year of burial in bags, and 4.05% after two years, indicating that G. germanica has a persistent seed bank. The demographic data indicate that the number of viable seeds in the seed bank exceeds the number of established plants in a population at least by a factor of 20. Restoration of extinct populations of the species from the seed bank may thus be possible if appropriate management measures are taken within a few years.
3683274|Arising from annual variation in parasitic plant population densities, substantial yearly changes may occur in the parasitic load of an individual perennial host. We conducted two two-year greenhouse pot experiments to examine the effects of varying intensities and duration of infection by an annual root hemiparasitic plant, Rhinanthus serotinus, on the growth and reproduction of its perennial host grass, Agrostis capillaris. In the first experiment, one host plant was growing either alone or under a load of 1 or 3 root hemiparasitic plants for one growing season, and during the next season all hosts continued their life free of hemiparasites. In the second experiment, the host plants either grew alone or were parasitised by 1 or 2 root hemiparasitic plants either during the first growing season only or during two successive seasons (the parasitic load being the same in the two seasons). In both experiments, the root hemiparasites markedly reduced the growth and reproduction of their perennial hosts. In the first experiment, the negative effects of parasites on host performance increased with the increase in intensity of parasitic infection from one to three parasites. The harmful effects of hemiparasitim were carried over to the following season; hosts parasitised during the previous season with one or three parasites produced significantly less biomass than those without parasites. In addition, hosts parasitised by three parasites during the first season produced significantly less panicles in the second season than those parasitised by one parasite and those without parasites. The second experiment showed that the production of biomass of A. capillaris during the second season was, but the production of panicles was not affected by the duration of parasitic infection. In addition, in this experiment, the second season biomass of A. capillaris depended on the intensity of infection (1 vs 2 parasites), but the production of panicles was unaffected by the number of parasites.
3683352|The vegetation and environmental conditions of south Swedish hornbeam Carpinus betulus forests are described with data from 35 permanent sample plots. The main floristic gradient of the ground vegetation is closely related to acid-base properties of the top soil: base saturation, pH and organic matter content. Other floristic differences are related to tree canopy cover and the distance of the sample plots to the Baltic coast. Species richness of herbaceous plants typical of forests increases with soil pH. The number of other herbaceous species, occurring in both forests and open habitats, and of woody species is not related to pH. Comparisons of vegetation data from 1983 and 1993 show relatively small compositional differences of the herbaceous forest flora. The number of other herbaceous species increased considerably in those plots where canopy trees had been cut after 1983. The number of new species in managed plots increases with soil pH. Species losses and gains of the herbaceous forest flora between 1983 and 1993 are generally lower as compared with other herbaceous species and woody species. However, the ground cover of herbaceous forest species, especially of Oxalis acetosella and Lamium galeobdolon, was considerably lower in 1993 as compared to 1983 in both unmanaged and managed plots. Possible explanations for this decrease are current soil acidification and drought during the growing season.
30244599|With environmental factors being spatially structured, plant traits that are related to these factors should exhibit a corresponding spatial pattern. We analyzed the distribution pattern of seed mass in Germany. We calculated the median seed mass for 10' longitude by 6' latitude grid cells across Germany using the trait databases BIOLFLOR and the plant distribution database FLORKART. To explain these distribution patterns of median seed mass, we applied multiple regression analyses on twelve selected environmental variables, accounting for spatial autocorrelation. To deal with collinearities of the predictors, we used hierarchical partitioning to analyze the independent and joint explanatory power of the environmental variables. To test whether statistical relationships are due to hidden correlations between seed mass and plant growth form, we conducted seperate analyses for annuals, perennial herbs, shrubs and trees. Low median seed mass was found in the lowlands and river valleys whereas high median seed mass was typical for the rich loess regions and the calcareous mountain ranges. Seed mass exhibited a strong positive correlation with soil pH (62% of variance explained) and a negative correlation with soil moisture (25%). Light was less important as a predictor of seed mass. Within the growth forms we observed similar distribution and correlation patterns pointing to a direct link between seed mass and the environmental variables soil pH and moisture. We argue that this striking relationship with soil pH is caused by the high stress from competition on fertile calcareous sites. The negative moisture effect may be due to drought stress. Both relationships are particulary interesting for the prediction of ecosystem responses to climate and land use changes.
3683277|Trees directly and indirectly influence the above- and below-ground environment, and can be expected to modify the spatial patterns of organisms associated with the forest floor. This study aimed to examine the effects of a coniferous (Picea abies) and a broad-leaved (Betula pubescens) tree species on the spatial pattern of ground vegetation and soil microbial properties in a mixed stand in central Sweden. I have characterised the species composition of ground vegetation, soil microbial biomass and activity, photosynthetic active radiation (PAR), soil water content and soil pH in the stand, and tested whether the spatial patterns of these variables were related to the positioning of trees. Geostatistics were used to describe the spatial variation in ground vegetation, soil microbiological properties and the soil surface environment. PAR, soil water content and the cover of the moss Brachytecium reflexum and associated herb species decreased with the influence of spruce trees. Microbial biomass, measured as the amount of phospholipid fatty acids, decreased with spruce influence but increased with the influence of birch trees. Microbial respiration was not affected by spruce but increased with the influence of birch. Ground vegetation and microbial respiration, which were influenced by one tree species only, aggregate on a scale of 4-5 m, corresponding fairly well with patches of a single tree species. Soil microbial biomass, which was affected by both tree species, aggregated on a scale of 7-8 m, roughly corresponding to the distance between patches of spruce and birch trees respectively. I suggest that spruce trees influenced vegetation mainly through shading, and that a difference in the availability of organic matter under birch and spruce trees caused spatial variation in microbial biomass and activity. Thus, spatial patterns in ground vegetation and soil microbial properties may develop in a mixed forest of coniferous-broad leaved trees, as a result of the difference in influence of tree species and nested variation associated with the arrangement of the trees.
3682957|The population ecology of the beetle Speonomus hydrophilus, occurring both in caves (reduced fluctuations in many abiotic parameters) and under the deepest layer of soil in mountains ("MSS", more exposed to climatic variations), was studied in four habitats in the French central Pyrenees. We have assessed some of the characteristics of the environment where these populations occur: e.g. physical data (altitude and exposure), geologic data (nature of the parent-rock) and abiotic parameters (temperature with its seasonal fluctuations) and we investigated the relative importance of environmental structure and ecological characteristics on the temporal organization of S. hydrophilus and the troglobitic fauna which cohabits. The climatic study shows the existence of an annual thermal cycle which is regular and well marked for the MSS habitats but slightly out of phase with the surface cycle. These periodic variations, however slight, may be stressful for troglobitic species. In the MSS populations, the phenology of the entire community is reflected in the pattern seen in Speonomus. The analysis of faunal profiles shows that samples follow the same seasonal succession during the annual cycle. A potential seasonal rhythm of emergence may reflect a seasonal rhythm of vitellogenesis which produces a rhythm of egg-laying.
3682787|The expansion of the wolf population all over Europe has posed problems on wolf-man coexistence in those areas where the wolf was not present for a long time. Breeding activities are now threatened by high predation on livestock. We investigated the relationship between wolf and its habitat, in order to evaluate wolf habitat suitability and to predict its presence. The study areas covered
3683497|In boreal forests, the level of naturalness and the stage of succession explain most of the variation in forest structure within a particular forest type. Thus, these two factors should also have a major effect on species assemblages in forests, at least on species groups associated with wood. The present study is the first attempt to analyze empirically the simultaneous effects of forest succession and naturalness on wood-inhabiting fungi, a taxonomic group of special ecological importance. The study area was situated in eastern Finland, middle boreal zone. A total of 41 study plots were established in Pinus sylvestris forests representing three levels of forest naturalness: natural, seminatural and intensively managed forests. Five stages of succession were distinguished according to the age of the dominating tree layer (<10, 40, 70, 110, and >150 yr old), except in managed forests where only four stages were available. A total of 5328 records of 195 species of fungi were made. The first, open stage of succession was clearly the most species-rich period of succession in all levels of forest naturalness. In natural and seminatural forests, the first stage of succession was also very distinctive in its fungal composition, and thus of special value in protecting biodiversity in boreal forests. In the succession following the first stage, the level of naturalness had more effect on assemblages of fungi than did the stage of succession. Intensive forest management affects threatened species particularly. In conclusion, natural young stages of succession should also be included in the network of boreal forest reserves.
20696285|Anthropogenically-induced climate change is one of the most important global threats to biodiversity. Understanding its impact on the distribution of exotic plant species is critical for developing effective adaptation and management strategies. However, there is insufficient information currently available on the biodiversity at risk from 1) exotic plant invasions, 2) climate change, and 3) the interaction between these two major threats, to develop such strategies. We use ecological niche models as a first step to identify zones inside and outside Australian protected areas that may be most at risk from invasions of three species of Hieracium (hawkweeds) under current and future (2030 and 2070) climate scenarios, should current control and eradication methods fail. These perennial herbs are native to Europe and invasive to New Zealand and North America. Naturalised in Australia, hawkweeds threaten native tussock grasslands and the grazing industry, and have been placed on the National Alert List. Using eight ecological niche models currently available in the software package BIOMOD, we found that these species have yet to realize the extent of their climatic distribution under present day climate in Australia. As climate change accelerates, the climatic range of hawkweeds was projected to contract overall. However, much of the Australian Alps, which contain large contiguous tracts of reserves and many endemic species, will continue to retain climatically suitable areas for hawkweeds through to 2070. These results emphasise the need for ongoing monitoring as well as focused control to minimize the likelihood of hawkweeds realizing their invasive potential in protected areas and beyond.
30243120|Plant species sharing pollinators may compete through pollination. This type of competition may lead to overdispersed flowering phenologies. However, phenological segregation is difficult to detect in seasonal climates. We compared patterns of phenological overlap in assemblages of ornithophilous plants from three localities of the temperate forest of southern South America with those generated by four different null models. These species were all visited and presumably pollinated by a single species, the hummingbird Sephanoides sephaniodes, which makes this situation ideal to evaluate the role of pollination-mediated competition. For one site, we compiled data on flowering phenologies for three different years. Three models considered the flowering period of the whole assemblage of ornithophilous plants as the phenological window within which flowering phenologies were randomized, but made no further assumptions on how species should be distributed within that temporal frame. The fourth model assigned differential probabilities to different time intervals based on the flowering onset of non-ornithophilous plant species. Observed mean pairwise overlaps for all localities and years were well within the interval defined by the 2.5 and 97.5% percentiles of the randomized distribution of expected mean pairwise overlaps according to models 1-3. However, model 4 showed a consistent trend towards overdispersion of ornihophilous phenologies, which show a shift towards mid- to latesummer flowering. Thus, to the extent that the distribution of flowering of nonornithophilous species reflects the constraints imposed by a highly seasonal climate, our results provide support to the proposal that pollinator sharing may cause evolutionary displacement or ecological sorting of flowering phenologies. Other factors, such as phylogenetic inertia, could also contribute to explain extant phenological patterns in the highly endemic ornithophilous flora of the temperate forest of southern South America.
30243268|Explaining geographic variation in plant species richness at broad spatial scales has long been a major challenge. Many hypotheses have been proposed during the last 200 yr, but recent work has focused on a few major alternatives. Among these, two hypotheses contend that plant species richness reflects 1) variation in energy and water availability among sampling units (the species-energy hypothesis) and 2) habitat and topographic heterogeneity within sampling units (the spatial heterogeneity hypothesis). We used a large botanical database and regression models to simultaneously confront the predictions from both hypotheses against an estimate of vascular plant richness across northwest South America. This estimate provided similar support for both hypotheses, a result that may be seen as contrasting with the notion that variation in energy and water availability among sampling units is the main determinant of plant species richness. We discuss potential explanations for this apparent discrepancy. Regression models that incorporated the relative contributions of both hypotheses predicted that the highest plant species richness in northwest South America is found in topographically complex areas. In contrast to several of the most recent mapping efforts, lowland Amazonia was predicted to be a plant richness trough in the study region. We suggest that diverging portrayals of plant richness across northwest South America result from differences in estimates of the relative importance of the species-energy and the spatial heterogeneity hypotheses.
3683481|The impact of an invasive species is unlikely to be uniform in space or time, due to variation in key traits of the invader (e.g. morphology, physiology, behaviour) as well as in resilience of the local ecosystem. The weak phylogeographic structure typical of an invasive population suggests that much of the variation in an invading taxon is likely to be generated by the environment and recent colonisation history. Here we describe effects of the environment and colonisation history on key morphological traits of an invader (the cane toad Bufo marinus). These "key traits" (body size and relative toxicity) mediate the impact of toads on Australian native predators, which often die as a consequence of ingesting a fatal dose of toad toxin. Measurements of museum specimens collected over >60 yr from a wide area show that seasonal variation in toad body size (due to seasonal recruitment) effectively swamps much of the spatial variance in this trait. However, relative toxicity of toads showed strong spatial variation and little seasonal variation. Thus, the risk to a native predator ingesting a toad will vary on both spatial and temporal scales. For native predators capable of eating a wide range of toad sizes (e.g. quolls, varanid lizards), seasonal variation in overall toad size will be the most significant predictor of risk. In contrast, gape-limited predators restricted to a specific range of toad sizes (such as snakes) will be most strongly affected by the relative toxicity of toads. Gape-limited predators will thus experience strong spatial variation in risk from toad consumption.
3683724|To determine the main factors affecting the population dynamics of Svalbard reindeer, we analysed 21 yr of annual censuses, including data on population size, recruitment rate (calves per female) and mortality (number of deaths), from the Reindalen reindeer population. In accordance with previous studies on population dynamics of Svalbard reindeer, we found large inter-annual variation in population size, mortality and recruitment rates within the study area. Population size decreased in years with low recruitment rate as well as high winter mortality and vice versa. Apparently, the fluctuations were due to both direct density-dependent food limitation and variation in winter climate associated with high precipitation and icing of the feeding range. We found no delayed density-dependence or effect of climatic conditions during summer on the population dynamics. The mortality during die-off years was mainly of calves and very old individuals, indicating that the population was more vulnerable to high die off in years following high recruitment rate. These results suggest an unstable interaction between the reindeer population and its food supply in these predator-free environments.
3683515|Adults of the Syrphinae subfamily display no strong flower preferences but exploit pollen and nectar produced by native plants having large inflorescences and flat corollae (e.g. Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Ranunculaceae and Rosaceae). Seven foraging guilds are defined according to the dietary patterns of hoverflies, reflecting mainly a sequential exploitation of flowers at different times of the year and in different habitats. The majority of species live in forests where they form highly diversified communities. Few Syrphinae colonize successfully open and anthropogenic habitats, such as field margins and fallow areas. Episyrphus balteatus, Melanostoma mellinum, Eupeodes corollae, Sphaerophoria scripta and Platycheirus spp. are dominant in the communities of Syrphinae from open habitats, all over western Europe. These species are highly polyphagous and characterized by elongated mouthparts as well as a long and slender body. They have access to pollen and nectar in flowers with small and tubular corollae. It is suggested that their polyphagy is an important asset for colonizing open and ephemeral habitats.
3683671|The observation that "on the whole... larger species live farther north and the smaller ones farther south" was first published by Carl Bergmann in 1847. However, why animal body mass might show such spatial variation, and indeed whether it is a general feature of animal assemblages, is currently unclear. We discuss reasons for this uncertainty, and use our conclusions to direct an analysis of Bergmann's rule in the mammals in northern North America, in the communities of species occupying areas that were covered by ice at the last glacial maximum. First, we test for the existence of Bergmann's rule in this assemblage, and investigate whether small- and large-bodied species show different spatial patterns of body size variation. We then attempt to explain the spatial variation in terms of environmental variation, and evaluate the adequacy of our analyses to account for the spatial pattern using the residuals arising from our environmental models. Finally, we use the results of these models to test predictions of different hypotheses proposed to account for Bergmann's rule. Bergmann's rule is strongly supported. Both small- and large-bodied species exhibit the rule. Our environmental models account for most of the spatial variation in mean, minimum and maximum body mass in this assemblage. Our results falsify predictions of hypotheses relating to migration ability and random colonisation and diversification, but support predictions of hypotheses relating to both heat conservation and starvation resistance.
3683431|I have used occurrence of macroscopic charcoal particles, pollen analyses and radiocarbon datings to examine local forest fire abundance in southern and central Norway. Peat cores, covering the last 1000 to 6000 yr, were sampled from 20 bog margin and swamp forest sites, and the charcoal records documented local fire occurrence in 10 of the sites. Forest fires have not occurred in the sites located in central Norway, whereas the fire occurrence in southern Norway showed large variation among the sites. However, forest fires ceased prior to the establishment of Norway spruce Picea abies in seven of the sites, whereas the establishment of spruce preceded the fire decline in three of the sites. Odds ratio calculations indicated that it is several hundred times more likely that fires occurred prior to, than after, the spruce establishment. Although time spans between fire decline and spruce establishment showed some variation, they did not increase along a gradient from east to west in Norway, suggesting that the establishment of spruce might have initiated a change from fire-prone to fire-free ecosystems.
3683496|Environmental gradients represent an ideal framework for studying adaptive variation in the life history of plant species. However, on very steep gradients, largely contrasting conditions at the two gradient ends often limit the distribution of the same species across the whole range of environmental conditions. Here, we study phenotypic variation in a winter annual crucifer Biscutella didyma persisting along a steep gradient of increasing rainfall in Israel. In particular, we explored whether the life history at the arid end of the gradient indicates adaptations to drought and unpredictable conditions, while adaptations to the highly competitive environment prevail at the mesic Mediterranean end. We examined several morphological and reproductive traits in four natural populations and in populations cultivated in standard common environment. Plants from arid environments were faster in phenological development, more branched in architecture and tended to maximize reproduction, while the Mediterranean plants invested mainly in vertical vegetative growth. Differences between cultivation and field in diaspore production were very large for arid populations as opposed to Mediterranean ones, indicating a larger potential to increase reproduction under favorable conditions. Our overall findings indicate two strongly opposing selective forces at the two extremes of the aridity gradient, which result in contrasting strategies within the studied annual plant species.
3683610|A modelling framework for studying the combined effects of climate and land-cover changes on the distribution of species is presented. The model integrates land-cover data into a correlative bioclimatic model in a scale-dependent hierarchical manner, whereby Artificial Neural Networks are used to characterise species' climatic requirements at the European scale and land-cover requirements at the British scale. The model has been tested against an alternative non-hierarchical approach and has been applied to four plant species in Britain: Rhynchospora alba, Erica tetralix, Salix herbacea and Geranium sylvaticum. Predictive performance has been evaluated using Cohen's Kappa statistic and the area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve, and a novel approach to identifying thresholds of occurrence which utilises three levels of confidence has been applied. Results demonstrate reasonable to good predictive performance for each species, with the main patterns of distribution simulated at both 10 km and 1 km resolutions. The incorporation of land-cover data was found to significantly improve purely climate-driven predictions for R. alba and E. tetralix, enabling regions with suitable climate but unsuitable land-cover to be identified. The study thus provides an insight into the roles of climate and land-cover as determinants of species' distributions and it is demonstrated that the modelling approach presented can provide a useful framework for making predictions of distributions under scenarios of changing climate and land-cover type. The paper confirms the potential utility of multi-scale approaches for understanding environmental limitations to species' distributions, and demonstrates that the search for environmental correlates with species' distributions must be addressed at an appropriate spatial scale. Our study contributes to the mounting evidence that hierarchical schemes are characteristic of ecological systems.
3683558|Herbivores are thought to respond to the increased risk of attack by predators during foraging activities by concentrating feeding in safe habitats and by reducing feeding in the presence of predators. We tested these hypotheses by comparing tree seedling predation by meadow voles within large outdoor enclosures treated either with scent of large mammalian predators (red fox, bobcat, coyote) or a control scent (vinegar). In addition, we compared the distribution of voles in relation to naturally occurring variation in vegetation cover and the tendency of voles to attack tree seedlings planted in small patches with cover manipulation (intact, reduced or removed cover). Predator scent did not affect the rate or spatial distribution of tree seedling predation by voles, nor did it affect giving up densities (a surrogate of patch quitting harvest rate), survival rates, body size or habitat distribution of voles. In both predator scent and vinegar treatments voles preferred abundant vegetation providing good cover, which was also the site of almost all tree seedling predation. We conclude that large mammalian predator scent does not influence the perception by voles of the general safety of habitat, which is more strongly affected by the presence of cover.
3683692|Diets of the otter Lutra lutra and the American mink Mustela vison were studied by scat analysis on five woodland rivers and streams in eastern Poland. Fish constituted 51% of food biomass consumed by otters in spring-summer and 40% in autumn-winter, with common fish (perch Perca fluviatilis, pike Esox lucius, and roach Rutilus rutilus) being captured most frequently by the otters. Amphibians (mainly Rana temporaria, which also dominated in the living community) made up 34% of otters' food biomass in spring-summer and 58% in autumn-winter. American mink relied on three prey groups: fish (40% in spring-summer, and 10% in autumn-winter), frogs (32% and 51%, respectively), and small mammals (21% and 36%). Out of available Micromammalia, mink strongly selected the root vole Microtus oeconomus. The cold season diet of both otter and mink depended on river size. On small rivers with forested valleys, otters and mink fed nearly exclusively on amphibians (72-90% of food biomass). With size of a river increasing and riverside habitat becoming more open (sedge and reed marshes instead of forests), otters shifted to catching predominantly fish (up to 76% in diet) and mink to preying on small mammals (up to 65% in diet). Review of literature on otter and mink in Eurasia showed that their diets did not change with latitude (as indicators of climate severity and duration of water freezing) but they depended on habitats. In otter diet, the mean share of fish declined from 94% (SE 1.7) on sea shores, to 71% (SE 2.9) on lakes and fish ponds, to 64% (SE 2.8) on rivers and streams. The roles of amphibians and crustaceans increased in the same gradient (from 0 to 15%, and from 3 to 7%, respectively). On inland waters, the abundance of crayfish was the essential factor differentiating otters' diet composition. In Eurasia, the staple food types of American mink on rivers and streams were fish (on average, 27% in diet, SE 3.9), mammals (30%, SE 5.0), and amphibians (17%, SE 4.8), whereas on lakes and ponds mink fed predominantly on birds (on average, 33% in diet, SE 10.1) and fish (28%, SE 9.5). In the Palaearctic region, over a wide gradient of habitats, otters appeared strongly specialised on prey taken from water, whereas American mink was a typical generalist capable of utilising several prey groups originating from both water and land.
3683787|A patchy spatial distribution of resources underpins many models of population regulation and species coexistence, so ecologists require methods to analyse spatially-explicit data of resource distribution and use. We describe a method for analysing maps of resources and testing hypotheses about species' distributions and selectivity. The method uses point pattern analysis based on the L-function, the linearised form of Ripley's K-function. Monte Carlo permutations are used for statistical tests. We estimate the difference between observed and expected values of L(t), an approach with several advantages: 1) The results are easy to interpret ecologically. 2) It obviates the need for edge correction, which has largely precluded the use of L-functions where plot boundaries are "real". Including edge corrections may lead to erroneous conclusions if the underlying assumptions are invalid. 3) The null expectation can take many forms, we illustrate two models: complete spatial randomness (to describe the spatial pattern of resources in the landscape) and the underlying pattern of resource patches in the landscape (akin to a neutral landscape approach). The second null is particularly useful to test whether spatial patterns of exploited resource points simply reflect the spatial patterns of all resource points. We tested this method using over 100 simulated point patterns encompassing a range of patterns that might occur in ecological systems, and some very extreme patterns. The approach is generally robust, but Type II decision errors might arise where spatial patterns are weak and when trying to detect a clumped pattern of exploited points against a clumped pattern of all points. An empirical example of an intertidal lichen growing on barnacle shells illustrates how this technique might be used to test hypotheses about dispersal mechanisms. This approach can increase the value of survey data, by permitting quantification of natural resource patch distribution in the landscape as well as patterns of resource use by species.
30243185|Regional patterns of species richness are often explained by models using temperature or measures habitat suitability. Generally, species richness is positively associated with temperature, and negatively associated with habitat degradation. While these models have been well tested across spatial scales, they have rarely been tested on a temporal scale - in part due to the difficulty in ascertaining accurate historical data at an appropriate resolution. In this study, we compared the results of temporal and spatial models, each incorporating two predictors of species richness: temperature, and human population density (as a surrogate of human-related habitat impacts). We found that the change in species richness from the early to late part of the 20th century was positively correlated with temperature change, and negatively correlated with human population density change. When we compared these results to two spatial models using contemporary and historic data, the spatial effects of temperature on butterfly richness were similar to its temporal effects, while the effect of human population density through time is the opposite of its spatial effect. More generally, the assumption that spatial patterns are equivalent to temporal ones when applying macroecological data to global change is clearly unreliable.
3682949|The impact of crested newts (Triturus cristatus) on the smaller-bodied palmate and smooth newts (T. helveticus and T. vulgaris) was studied during the larval stages using a combination of field and laboratory experiments. In pond enclosures T. cristatus larvae had no effect on the two smaller species over the first four weeks of development. By eight weeks, however, T. cristatus had achieved a size advantage which enabled it to eliminate T. helveticus and severely reduce T. vulgaris by predation. In laboratory trials under food-limited conditions, T. helveticus and T. vulgaris were slightly smaller when raised with T. cristatus, suggesting that this predatory effect was complemented by interspecific competition during early development. Predation of the smaller species started when T. cristatus reached a threshold size of c. 27 mm. No reciprocal effects on T. cristatus growth or survival were observed. Although T. cristatus may be a significant predator of congeneric species in natural ponds, other factors, such as differences in microhabitat selection, higher-order predator-prey interactions, and the occasional desiccation of pond habitats may facilitate coexistence between the species.
3683614|An important goal for community ecology is the characterization and prediction of changes in community patterns along environmental gradients. We aimed to identify the major environmental correlates of diatom distribution patterns in boreal running waters. We classified 197 stream sites based on their diatom flora. Direct ordination methods were then used to identify the key environmental determinants of this diatom-based stream typology. Finally, we tested whether a regional classification scheme based on terrestrial landscapes (ecoregions) provides a reasonable framework for a regional grouping of streams based on their diatom flora. Two-way indicator species analysis produced 13 site groups, which were primarily separated by chemical variables, mainly conductivity, total P and water colour. In partial CCA, the environmental and spatial factors accounted for 38% and 24%, respectively, of explained variation in community composition. A high proportion (almost 40%) of variation explained by the combined effect (spatially-structured environmental) indicated that diatom communities of boreal streams incorporate a strong spatial component. At the level of subecoregions, classification strength was almost equally strong for all sites as for near-pristine reference sites only. Procrustes analysis indicated that spatial factors and patterns in diatom community structure were strongly concordant. Our data support the argument that diatom communities are strongly spatially structured, with distinctly different communities in different parts of the country. Because of the strong spatial patterns of community composition, bioassessment programs utilising lotic diatoms would clearly benefit from regional stratification. A combination of regional stratification and the prediction of assemblage structure from local environmental features might provide the most robust framework for diatom-based assessment of the biological integrity of boreal streams.
3682927|The seed germination behaviour of Primula veris and Trollius europaeus, both perennial, polycarpic grassland plants was compared. The species have similar-sized seeds that are dormant at dispersal. Seeds buried in soil and exhumed at regular intervals showed that for both species, primary seed dormancy was overcome by cold-stratification. Hence, their germination in the field should occur in spring, following dispersal, or later. Seeds of P. veris became dormant again in the late spring/early summer, and dormancy was broken again in the second winter. Seeds of T. europaeus did not exhibit such changes in dormancy. Seeds of P. veris did not germinate in darkness. This suggests that P. veris can accumulate a persistent seed bank because buried seeds are prevented from germinating. Trollius europaeus, on the other hand, germinated equally well in darkness and in light which suggests that seeds might germinate even when they are too deep in the soil for seedlings to emerge. Two lines of evidence confirm this difference in seed bank behaviour; (i) Primula veris was detected in the persistent seed bank of a grassland site, whereas, T. europaeus was not. (ii) After 16 months burial, 85% of the P. veris seeds but only 8% of the T. europaeus seeds remained viable.
3683602|Spatial structure and the distribution of individuals within a community might be influenced by several factors such as habitat heterogeneity and local interactions among individuals of the same and different species. We investigated the spatial distributions of eight bird species in a grassland community during the breeding season and examined whether the spatial distributions of individuals were influenced by interactions among neighboring individuals or different habitat preferences of different bird species. In order to identify the effects of the interactions among neighboring individuals and habitat preference, we developed a randomization test in which species identifications were randomly allocated to the observed individual positions within areas with the same vegetation structure. The randomization test indicated that individuals tend to have territories near the territories of individuals of the same species or of a particular species more frequently (or less frequently) than those expected from random distributions of individuals. Among these associations, only one case was explained by individual interactions, and 19 cases were explained by habitat preference. The results suggest that both individual interactions and habitat preference affected the spatial distributions of individuals and possibly influence the species compositions and diversity in grassland bird communities.
3682866| Epichlo fungi interact with Botanophila flies in a co-evolved mutualism that appears to be analogous to angiosperm pollinator-parasite systems. Female flies act as vectors of fungal spores as they lay eggs on the fungi which grow within and on grass stems. To understand selective pressures operating on choice of host fungi by flies, we monitored the interaction of two species of Epichlo with Botanophila at two sites in southern England. At one site (Ashurst), the hosts Epichlo clarkii and Epichlo baconii co-occurred, while at a second site (Farm Gate), only E. clarkii was present. Flies ovipositing on E. baconii showed preferences for large, somewhat isolated fungi occurring within small clumps of grass. Flies ovipositing on E. clarkii at the Ashurst site did not select hosts based on any physical features of fungi that we measured. However, flies ovipositing on E. clarkii at the Farm Gate site tended to prefer large fungi that occurred within small clumps of grass. Fungal characteristics preferred by the flies showed no correlation with egg/larval survivorship. Insect survival on E. clarkii varied between sites and was related to differences in egg dispersion among fungi at the two sites. The absence of an alternate host (E. baconii) was associated with greater aggregation of eggs on E. clarkii at the Farm Gate site and these insects experienced higher levels of mortality at this compared to the other site. 
30243141|Plant-pollinator interactions are important for the evolution and survival of the species involved. Plant-pollinator networks on oceanic islands are often small in size and as a consequence the connectance is high suggesting a substantial generalisation level. Further, linkage level for insular plants is shown to be lower than on mainland. The present study investigates a plant-pollinator network on the Galpagos Islands that is unique because of its very small size. We recorded pollinator visits to plant species as well as pollen grains on insect bodies. The combination of these data increased the observed number of interactions. The values for connectance and linkage level for plants were found to be consistent with similar values found in other network studies. There were no relation between the abundance of plant species and the number of pollinating species. The dominating pollinator species was the Galpagos carpenter bee Xylocopa darwini. Specimens of the shorthorned grasshopper Halmenus cuspidatus turned out to carry pollen from five plant species out of twelve and are probably functioning as pollinator. Bagging experiments revealed dependency on insect visits for a high seed set for most of the plant species, but only one species Plumbago scandens seemed to possess a pollen limited seed set. The network showed an asymmetric pattern of number of interactions per species with a few species having several interactions and many species a few. This pattern is supposed to result in a rather robust community, but is also fairly sensitive if the dominant species are threatened. The high connectance value found could, however, counteract this vulnerability.
3683145|Dispersal is an ecological phenomenon which is of fundamental importance to population biology. While dispersal behaviour of many orders of winged insects has received a great deal of attention, the dispersal characteristics of odonates have been poorly documented. We used capture-mark-recapture techniques to study dispersal behaviour of seven species of odonates breeding on a network of 11 small ponds in Cheshire, U.K. The ponds ranged in size from 615 to 1300 m
30244568|Biological invasions are one of the major threats to both ecosystem and economic functioning. Their management typically involves culling of the pest or removal of its habitat. The Asiatic red-bellied beautiful squirrel Callosciurus erythraeus is the first known introduction of a squirrel into South America. It established from five releases in 1973, using exotic trees to spread through Argentinean Pampas. It now causes substantial economic damage in agricultural and urban areas across >680 km, and its continued spread threatens indigenous species. We developed a spatially explicit model of the invasion for the likely range of life-history parameters, matched against empirical data on patch occupancy in 2004. The two best-fitting models suggest the current population to be on the cusp of an explosive expansion. These models were used to predict future trends under alternative scenarios of strategic culling or habitat removal aimed at slowing the spread. The predictions for 18 yr into the future were that 1) the present lack of systematic management will lead to a 5-fold increase in area of occupancy, 2) removal of habitat down to half carrying capacity will thin the population but accelerate its spread, 3) 10 yr of culling above the maximum sustainable yield (MSY) will precipitate declines in abundance and patch occupancy towards extinction, but with immediate recovery upon cessation of the cull. We recommend continuous culling above the MSY in priority patches, aimed at slowing arrival to valuable conservation areas. This study demonstrates the need for prompt action to terminate invasions before they establish. The squirrel invasion is now irreversible after 30 yr of slow spread across fragmented habitat. Although culling requires public awareness campaigns and sustained governmental commitment, it is now the best feasible strategy for managing this invasion.
3683860|We investigated the regeneration of a threatened tree, the yew Taxus baccata, in relation to the presence of fleshy-fruited woody plants acting as seed dispersal foci as well as protecting yew recruits against ungulate herbivores. We seek to determine if local facilitative effects are consistent across landscape in the Cantabrian range (NW Spain). Yew seed rain by birds mostly concentrated under yew trees and beneath hollies Ilex aquifolium. Seedling emergence distributed similarly to seed rain, but first-year seedling survival was higher beneath hollies. In one site where woody vegetation was structured as nucleation centres (multispecific patches of fleshy-fruited plants acting as foci for seed rain) yew recruits mostly occurred in yew-dominated centres, suggesting dispersers-mediated facilitation. However, holly was the main nurse plant for most of these recruits, considering the nurse as the species whose canopy covered directly the yew recruit. Living beneath nurse plants reduced herbivore damage on saplings and enhanced seedling survival. A planting experiment with yew rooted-cuttings beneath different spiny shrubs corroborated this effect. Additional evidence on yew recruitment limitation by herbivory emerged from one population where ungulates were fence-excluded. Our results suggest that nurse plants mitigate the negative effect of herbivores on yew regeneration, by providing defence against browsing and trampling. Shelter ability related to nurse structure, cone-shaped shrubs with branches at their bases acting better as a barrier. Paradoxically, this structure resulted from heavy browsing on nurse plants. The study of yew regeneration and habitat structure in seven sites provided evidence for the consistency of facilitation by holly at the landscape level, since local values of yew recruitment positively related to nurse ground cover. Range-scale yew management must consider the local functioning of the interaction among avian seed-dispersers, nurse fleshy-fruited plants and ungulate herbivores, in combination with regional measures, targeting the habitats where facilitation emerges.
20696317|Dispersal distances determine the scales over which many population processes occur. Knowledge of these distances may therefore be crucial in determining the appropriate spatial scales for research and management. However, dispersal distances are difficult to measure, especially for vagile organisms like songbirds. For these species, the use of traditional markrecapture and radio-telemetry methods is problematic. We used positive one-year time-lagged correlations in abundance to estimate natal dispersal distances. Using the North American Breeding Bird Survey database, we examined one-year time-lagged correlations between pairs of North American songbird samples separated by 10-100 km. We submit that consistent positive one-year time-lagged correlations reflect the exchange of individuals through dispersal. We found positive one-year time-lagged correlations between pairs of samples from 25 different songbird species. The median distances of these correlations ranged from 15 to 95 km, depending on the species. These distances were positively correlated with body size and wing length. Dispersal appears to be the most parsimonious explanation for the time-lagged correlations we observed in these species. The putative dispersal distances we measured are generally an order of magnitude longer than those reported in the literature.
3683815|Understanding patterns of species occurrence and abundance is a central theme of ecology, natural resource management, and conservation. Although occurrence models have been widely used for describing species distribution, particularly for rare species, abundance models are less common, despite greater information for conservation and management. Because presence-absence data are easier and less expensive to collect, predictions of abundance from patterns of occurrence could prove useful. We examined the relationship between occurrence and abundance for two species with very different life histories: bracken fern Pteridium aquilinum and moose Alces alces. We predicted that if occurrence and abundance were functionally related we should observe: 1) correlation between predicted probability of occurrence and observed abundance; 2) similar environmental covariates and estimated coefficients for occurrence models developed separately for low-density, high-density, and global data sites; and 3) parallel coefficients for the occurrence and abundance components of zero-inflated count models. Probability of occurrence was not correlated with abundance-when-present for bracken fern, while evidence for a relationship for moose was apparent at densities of animals below 7 individuals per cutblock. Coefficients for models at different levels of density did not vary significantly. However, once occurrence was accounted for, measured environmental data appeared less important in describing abundance. For bracken, covariates of zero-inflated count models differed in their expression of occurrence and abundance. Differences were less extreme for moose; however, results from the two-process models suggest that distribution and abundance may be a function of different processes. Environmental factors influencing abundance may differ from those limiting distribution. Life history, scale, site history, and socio-competitive processes further help shape patterns of abundance. Two-stage modeling provides a powerful tool for describing animal and plant distribution where the processes of occurrence and abundance are influenced by different factors.
3683475|Prediction of species' distributions is central to diverse applications in ecology, evolution and conservation science. There is increasing electronic access to vast sets of occurrence records in museums and herbaria, yet little effective guidance on how best to use this information in the context of numerous approaches for modelling distributions. To meet this need, we compared 16 modelling methods over 226 species from 6 regions of the world, creating the most comprehensive set of model comparisons to date. We used presence-only data to fit models, and independent presence-absence data to evaluate the predictions. Along with well-established modelling methods such as generalised additive models and GARP and BIOCLIM, we explored methods that either have been developed recently or have rarely been applied to modelling species' distributions. These include machine-learning methods and community models, both of which have features that may make them particularly well suited to noisy or sparse information, as is typical of species' occurrence data. Presence-only data were effective for modelling species' distributions for many species and regions. The novel methods consistently outperformed more established methods. The results of our analysis are promising for the use of data from museums and herbaria, especially as methods suited to the noise inherent in such data improve.
3683559|We investigated whether local biotic and abiotic conditions could explain the occurrence of calling males of the declining spadefoot toad Pelobates fuscus in 72 ponds in southern Sweden. The ponds covered the entire distribution range of P. fuscus and were monitored during the breeding season in 2000. Calling males were found in 33 ponds, representing ca 50% of all known ponds for the species in Sweden. They had a non-random distribution and a discriminant analysis including 19 environmental variables successfully classified 86% of the ponds as with or without calling males. A stepwise discriminant analysis selected eight of these variables and classified 85% of the ponds correctly. Ponds with calling males were classified mainly on characteristics of the ponds, whereas composition of the terrestrial habitat close to the ponds and traffic load within 500 m had little influence on the distribution of calling males. Ponds with P. fuscus were large, permanent and eutrophic with high concentrations of oxygen and high spring temperatures. They also had a high proportion of shoreline with steep banks. Permanent ponds with calling males typically had a low abundance of predatory fish and crayfish; only two of the ponds with P. fuscus contained predatory fish. The results of this study indicate that interactions between physical factors (e.g. pond drying) and predation determine the presence of P. fuscus. Because P. fuscus has specific habitat requirements necessary for its survival and high site fidelity, it is particularly vulnerable to local changes in the condition of its natural breeding ponds. The situation is particularly serious for this species because the majority of the ponds that are within its dispersal range do not seem to be suitable for P. fuscus because of physical constraints.
3682937| Growth and mortality rates of three juvenile instars and adults of the oribatid mite Alaskozetes antarcticus were measured over a twelve month period using field enclosures in its maritime Antarctic habitat. A pattern was found of rapid growth during the short summer period (0.2-0.4 g dry weight increment per day) followed by gradual weight loss overwinter. Most individuals completed one instar per year, reaching a premoult resting phase by late summer, with the moult being delayed and relatively synchronised early the next summer. A small proportion of proto- and deutonymphs completed two moults within one summer period. After the final moult adults over-wintered again before commencing oviposition, suggesting that the life cycle (egg-egg) will take at least five years. Mortality was not biased towards any instar or time of year. Highest individual growth rates were obtained at a constant temperature of 7C in the laboratory. However, experimental increase of mean field temperature from 2.7 to 4.3C by use of a plastic cloche led to decreased growth, although no change in moulting frequency or mortality rate. Laboratory survival was greatest at 2C and decreased with increasing temperature. Alaskozetes antarcticus may be described as 'a' (adversity) selected, showing an exceptionally long life cycle of five to six years and extensive physiological investment in survival adaptations. Moult synchronisation in early summer, involving entering winter in the inactive premoult phase, will increase overwinter survival by reducing the chance of inoculative freezing from gut contents, and may be advantageous in maximising the time available for feeding during the subsequent summer, or ensuring proximity of the sexes after the final moult. 
30244517|Despite its relevance for the dynamics of populations, the ecological mechanisms underlying juvenile and adult survival are poorly known in most bird species. This study focuses on the effect of habitat fragmentation on early post-fledging, first-year and adult survival of the middle spotted woodpecker Dendrocopus medius by combining data of radio-tagged and ringed birds. Among juveniles, most deaths occurred during the first three weeks after fledging (survival rate: 0.359  0.077) and were mainly caused by predation. After independence, birds faced another critical period during their first autumn-winter that lowered first-year survival further (0.255  0.044), whereas adult mortality was considerably lower (annual survival rate: 0.786  0.074). We did not find any significant effect of habitat fragmentation (measured as patch size and connectivity) on juvenile or adult survival. Sex ratio at fledging did not differ significantly from parity (proportion of females: 0.513) and was not correlated to patch size. Regardless of age, survival did not differ between the sexes, suggesting that a femalebiased mortality was not the mechanism behind the presence of unpaired territorial males in this population. Lighter nestlings underwent significantly higher post-fledging mortality, indicating that conditions in the nest may substantially affect survival later in life.
3683241|In this paper, I present long-term data on reproduction for the tree Sorbus aucuparia. Variation in fruit-set (6 yr) in 22 trees in one population is described and related to flower predation, climate and floral display size. Fruit production is described for 7 yr in eight trees in each of four populations and related to climate. An additional study, application of a mineral fertiliser, was conducted to test if nutrient availability affected flower, fruit and seed production. The descriptive study showed that mean fruit-set differed significantly between individuals and years. The ranges of yearly mean proportion of initiated fruit/flower, mature fruit/initiated fruit and mature fruit/flower were large (12-41%, 2-72% and 0.3-23%, respectively). Predation of flowers was low, 1% on average (range 0.3-2%). Between-year variations in fruit-set were positively correlated (though not significant) with precipitation during the phase of initiation and maturation of fruits, respectively. Fruit-set was independent of floral display size when expressed as number of inflorescences per tree. However, when floral display size was expressed as number of flowers per inflorescence, there was a tendency for large inflorescences to have a smaller proportion of initiated fruit/flower and mature fruit/flower than small inflorescences. The number of fruits produced by the four populations studied varied significantly among years, populations and individuals. Individual fruit production varied considerably between the worst and the best fruiting year (
3683756|The alteration of the seed dispersal process due to the Argentine ant invasion and its consequences on emergence, recruitment, distribution, and survival of seedlings of Euphorbia characias were analyzed. The study was carried out in two zones of Mediterranean cork-oak secondary forest, one invaded by L. humile and the other non-invaded. Two cohorts of E. characias seedlings (those emerged in 2001 and those emerged in 2002) were studied in three study plots in each zone. The level of seed loss due to lack of viability, parasitizing, and vertebrate predation did not differ between the two zones. The mean seed sowing depth was lower in the invaded zone (13.5 mm) than in the non-invaded zone (22.4 mm). This depth difference implies a longer time needed for seedlings to emerge in the non-invaded zone but not a different emergence percent under laboratory conditions. In the field study plots seedling recruitment did not differ between the two zones, probably due to the trade-off between the differences in the initial number of seeds released (higher in the non-invaded zone) and the different emergence proportions (higher in the invaded zone). As for the spatial characteristics of emerged seedlings, no differences in the mean seedling distance to the nearest inflorescence or to the nearest seedling or in the pattern of seedling distribution were found between zones. Seedling survival was assessed once a month until they had reached maturity or until all of them had died. The median seedling survival time was similar between the invaded and the non-invaded zones. Survival curves also did not differ between zones. The present study suggests a functional equivalence of the Argentine ant after the replacement of the native ant species. Despite the initial differences found, the final reproductive success of E. characias was not altered after the invasion. However, the case of E. characias seems unlikely to be the rule, and the seed dynamics of other species may be altered, i.e. increased or decreased, and thus positively or negatively affected by the invasion.
3682763|Paracoprid dung beetles build brood chambers in the soil beneath a dung pat and provide them with dung. Onthophagus species lay one egg into each chamber. This paper deals with the influence of soil type and soil moisture on micro-habitat selection and survival of offspring in three middle-European Onthophagus-species (O. coenobita, O. fracticornis and O. vacca). Discrimination between sandy soils with three different loam contents (0%, 20%, 40%) and four different water contents (4%, 8%, 12%, 16%) was tested in the laboratory. During the first 24 h of each replicate beetles which colonized one of the patches did not distinguish between different soil conditions. Emigration rates, measured as time when 50% of all individuals had left the patch, and numbers of brood chambers proved to be species specific and depended on soil moisture and soil type. Survival rates of the larvae in the brood chambers were influenced nearly exclusively by soil moisture. The results are discussed in relation to the ecology of the three species and in context with optimal foraging theories.
3683508|This study investigates the relationships between landscape composition and the population dynamics of the fossorial water vole Arvicola terrestris. Land use patterns were studied based on agricultural and forestry data from the French Ministry of Agriculture collected in 1955 and 1988. In the Massif Central, France, water vole populations were monitored from 1985 to 1993 by using index methods. Outbreaks of water vole populations occurred in many dispersed epicentres and spread suddenly and widely over $>7500\ {\rm km}^{2}$. At a regional scale, the fluctuation lasts six years on average with an outbreak period lasting from two to three years. Density variation patterns are positively correlated with the proportion of permanent grassland to agricultural land. A high risk of outbreak is linked to a high proportion of permanent grassland (over 90%), whereas a low risk of outbreak is linked to a proportion of < 80%. Conversely, density variation patterns are negatively correlated with the proportion of temporary grassland to agricultural land and with the proportion of forest to total land in the western (major) part of the study area. Temporary grassland thus appears to be a marginal habitat for water voles and extensive forests could act as a brake on outbreaks. The increase in the area of permanent grassland from 1955 to 1988 was apparently the major cause of chronic high densities of water voles. Therefore, land use and landscape management could be one way to control water vole outbreaks.
3683466|Estimating species richness in large biomes is a central challenge in ecology and conservation biology. However, accurate census data is often available only from small discrete plots distributed within the biome. Using tree species richness data collected from 48 plots (0.25 ha each) widely distributed through 60 000 km<sup>2</sup> in the rainforests of the Western Ghats of southern India, we test the application of a proposed method for estimating species richness at large scales from measured species commonalities between pairs of censused plots. We show that the method allows extrapolation of species richness from a scale of 0.25 ha plots to that of the entire biome, or 10<sup>5</sup> km<sup>2</sup>.
30244596|Accurate predictions of the potential distribution of range-shifting species are required for effective management of invasive species, and for assessments of the impact of climate change on native species. Range-shifting species pose a challenge for traditional correlative approaches to range prediction, often requiring the extrapolation of complex statistical associations into novel environmental space. Here we take an alternative approach that does not use species occurrence data, but instead captures the fundamental niche of a species by mechanistically linking key organismal traits with spatial data using biophysical models. We demonstrate this approach with a major invasive species, the cane toad Bufo marinus in Australia, assessing the direct climatic constraints on its ability to move, survive, and reproduce. We show that the current range can be explained by thermal constraints on the locomotor potential of the adult stage together with limitations on the availability of water for the larval stage. Our analysis provides a framework for biologically grounded predictions of the potential for cane toads to expand their range under current and future climate scenarios. More generally, by quantifying spatial variation in physiological constraints on an organism, trait-based approaches can be used to investigate the range-limits of any species. Assessments of spatial variation in the physiological constraints on an organism may also provide a mechanistic basis for forecasting the rate of range expansion and for understanding a species' potential to evolve at range-edges. Mechanistic approaches thus have broad application to process-based ecological and evolutionary models of range-shift.
20696308|Over the past half century, ecologists have tried to unravel the factors that drive species richness patterns in ecological communities. One influential theory is island biogeography theory (IBT), which predicts that island or habitat area and isolation are drivers of species richness. However, relatively few studies testing IBT have considered invertebrate or belowground communities, and it is unclear as to whether the predictions made by IBT hold for these communities. Other theories predict that habitat characteristics such as vegetation diversity may be important drivers of invertebrate species richness. To investigate patterns of invertebrate density and species richness across gradients of area, isolation, and vegetation diversity, we used a system of 30 lake islands in the boreal zone of northern Sweden. We assessed density and taxonomic richness of ground-dwelling spiders, web-building spiders, beetles, collembolans, mites, and nematodes, for all islands during two consecutive summers. For all invertebrate groups, both density and taxonomic richness were either neutrally or negatively related to island size, and either neutrally or positively related to island isolation. Meanwhile the density and taxonomic richness for several groups was positively related to vegetation diversity (i.e. habitat heterogeneity). In multiple regression analyses, island size was often the single best predictor for both invertebrate density and taxonomic richness, but in some cases island size and isolation in combination explained more variation than each factor considered singly. Contrary to IBT predictions, invertebrate density and richness was never positively related to island size or negatively related to island isolation. Instead, our results suggest that plant diversity (and thus habitat heterogeneity) was the main driver of the patterns that we found, although other factors could have some influence. We conclude that several factors, but not necessarily those predicted as important by IBT, are important in determining invertebrate abundance and species richness in island systems.
3683631|Bilberry shoots are one of the main food sources for grey-sided voles Clethrionomys rufocanus during winter. This study examined the relation between plant quality variables of bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus shoots, overall vegetation height, and the winter consumption of bilberry by grey-sided voles. Results show that only the phenolic concentration correlated significantly with the amount of bilberry biomass consumed, and bilberry consumption decreased with an increasing phenolic concentration. The best predictor of herbivory on bilberry was not plant quality but rather the overall vegetation height. This may be because the quality of bilberry shoots is high in all habitats and that predation is a greater mortality risk than nutritional deficiencies during winter.
30244555|Vertebrate population dynamics, social organisation and space use often are closely associated with the distribution of critical resources, such as food. Tree squirrels are ideal models to study these relationships, since both key demographic parameters (reproduction, survival and dispersal) and spatio-temporal variation in food supplies (measured as seed-crop size) can be reliably estimated. In this paper we test the following two predictions underlying the association between annual food abundance and demography in six alpine red squirrel populations, both with and without time-lag effects: 1) between-season and between-year fluctuations in survival rate, population density and increase parallel those in food availability; and 2) individuals follow a resource tracking strategy and increase in density mainly the year after a rich seed-crop. Red squirrels occurred at higher densities in Scots pine forest, characterised by stable seed-crops, than in Norway spruce with more abundant but more variable seed crops. Fluctuations in numbers were positively correlated with food availability, measured as annual conifer seed-crop sizes. Overall, adult survival rates were higher than those of subadults, and survival substantially fluctuated between seasons and years. Autumn densities and rates of population increase (summer-autumn) were strongly correlated with the same year's autumn seed-crop, while correlations with the previous year's seed-crop (time-lag models) were either weak (population density) or absent (population increase). Results of this paper show that fluctuations in red squirrel densities in habitats with strong temporal variation in seed production are more closely linked with food availability than in more stable habitats. In addition, in the Alpine conifer forests squirrel population sizes, in autumn, increase in synchrony with food resources, eliminating the population lag normally present when resources are produced in pulses.
3683427|Many studies address the relationships between diversity or distribution and attributes of the physical environment. However, how these relationships are connected to variation in life history is poorly understood. This is particularly true in the case of pteridophytes. Japanese ferns and their allies comprise one of the best-known pteridophyte floras in the world. We analyzed ca 600 species of Japanese pteridophytes for which there is detailed information on distribution, reproduction, and chromosome number. Species richness was greatest in groups with a single reproductive mode (sexual, followed by apogamous), but distribution was greatest in species groups with multiple reproductive modes: sexual plus either sterile (irregular in meiosis) or apogamous. Geographical ranges varied greatly among species with small chromosome numbers but were uniformly small among species having high chromosome numbers. Seasonally green (mostly summer green) species had significantly larger distribution ranges than evergreen species. Endemic species had higher proportions of apogamy and sterility than non-endemic species. Seasonally green species had significantly larger distributional ranges, and a smaller proportion of species with apogamous reproduction, than evergreen species. There was no clear relationship between distribution and spore size, either among endemic species, non-endemic species, or all species combined. There was no relationship between spore size and chromosome number when all species were combined. However, positive relationships were detected within three of the nine largest genera, suggesting potential phylogenetic effects. We concluded that habitat availability, rather than dispersability, may be the limiting factor for the distribution of pteridophytes in Japan.
30243116|Predictive habitat distribution models are normally assumed to sacrifice generality for precision and reality. Nevertheless, such models are often applied to predict the distribution of a species outside the area for which the model has been calibrated. We investigated how the geographic extent of the data used for calibration influenced the performance of habitat distribution models applied on independent data. We took a multi-scale logistic regression approach by varying the grain size to develop six habitat models for capercaillie Tetrao urogallus in Switzerland: three regional models, for the northern Pre-Alps, eastern Central Alps and Jura mountains, respectively, and three pooled models, each using data from two of the three regions. The six models were validated with data from the region(s) not used for model building. We used Cohen's Kappa and the area under the receiver operating characteristics curve as accuracy measures. The regional models performed well in the region where they had been calibrated, but poorly to moderately well in the other regions. The pooled models classified almost as well in their calibration regions as the corresponding regional models, but generally better when validated on data from the independent region. Hence, models built with data from single regions provide less certain predictions of species' distributions in other regions. We recommend building more general models using data pooled from several regions, when the aim is to predict species' distributions in independent regions.
3683627|Studying the distributions of plants and animals along environmental gradients can illuminate the factors governing and maintaining species diversity. There are two general predictions of how species richness and elevation are related: either species richness decreases monotonically with increasing elevation or richness peaks at mid-elevations. Several processes might contribute to this pattern. In this paper, I examine patterns in ant species richness along elevational gradients in three states in the western US: Colorado, Nevada, and Utah. I test for the effects of available area and the geometric constraints model on species richness patterns. I also test Rapoport's rescue hypothesis, which relates the extent of species' elevational ranges to patterns in species richness. In each state, species richness peaked at mid-elevations. Area explained more variation in species richness than the geometric constraints model in Colorado and Utah, but not in Nevada. Area and geometric constraints together explained 90%, 99%, and 57% of the variation in species richness in Colorado, Nevada, and Utah, respectively. Even though there were peaks at mid-elevations, I still found a strong Rapoport effect. This work suggests that the influences of area and geometric constraints cannot be overlooked when examining patterns in species richness along environmental gradients.
3683528|The regressive succession model hypothesizes tropical savanna-woodlands to be a degraded stage of primary deciduous forests. Species diversity, richness and evenness of woody species in savanna-woodlands, secondary deciduous forests and mature deciduous forests of central India were compared to test if the regressive succession explained pattern in species richness, diversity, functional diversity and basal area. At the plot scale (0.1 ha) secondary deciduous forests and savanna-woodlands had similar species diversity, a pattern not consistent with the regressive model of deciduous forest succession, and mature deciduous forests had greater species diversity and richness (p < 0.05). When examined at a larger scale or community scale by pooling all plots within a community type, the trend in diversity persisted even with greater effort allocated to sampling of secondary deciduous forests. Species richness at the community scale was greatest in secondary deciduous forest as expected from species area relationship. The communities shared 28 woody species but the species composition was significantly different between the communities. I suggest that conservation of tropical deciduous forests based on regressive succession model is problematic.
3683150|The diet of the red fox Vulpes vulpes L. was studied during three winter periods in spruce plantations in Britain, during which time the cyclic field vole Microtus agrestis L. populations varied in abundance. Field voles and roe deer Capreolus capreolus L. were the two main prey species in the diet of the red fox. The contribution of lagomorphs to fox diet never exceeded 35% and species of small mammal other than field voles were of minor importance. The contribution of field voles was dependent on vole density. The non-linear density dependent relationship with a rather abrupt increase of field voles in fox diet when vole density exceeded ca 100 voles ha
3683264|Sheep grazing in arid and semiarid Patagonia have the natural vegetation as their exclusive source of food. This paper studies the floristic changes that occur as a response to grazing in the Stipa speciosa, Stipa humilis, Adesmia campestris, Berberis heterophylla, and Poa lanuginosa community in the SW of Chubut (Argentina) by comparison of community characters between areas with different degrees of historical grazing. Stands located on typical zonal soils with sandy cover were sampled, including pairs of stands from neighbouring fields with different grazing history and two areas where large herbivores had been excluded for 27 and 9 yr, respectively. Species cover values were recorded in 37 samples of ca 500 m
3682968|Analysis of 134 excrement samples from the brown bear Ursus arctos L. in boreal forests in central south Norway found volumes to be largest for Vaccinium spp., herbage Empetrum spp., and Formicidae. The most important plant material in volume uptake were herbage, leaves, and mosses, closely followed by berries and seeds. All together, plant material amounted to c. 85% by volume, Formicidae to c. 8%, and domestic sheep to c. 7%. These values were radically changed by applying correction factors for different nutritional value of food items. The importance of large mammals then increased substantially, while the importance of herbage was reduced. There was a drastic shift in food composition through the seasons: Formicidae and flowers of deciduous trees were prevalent in spring, herbage in early summer, Vaccinium spp. and sheep in late summer, and Vaccinium spp. and Empetrum spp. in autumn.
3683596|We investigated differences in host infection by a desert mistletoe, Phoradendron californicum, and examined one of the processes that contributes to these differences: variation in seed deposition among host individuals and species. In the Sonoran Desert, P. californicum parasitizes the sympatric leguminous trees Olneya tesota, Cercidium microphyllum, Prosopis velutina, Acacia constricta, and Acacia greggii. We hypothesized that seed deposition depends on host height and crown architecture. At a site in Arizona, frequency of infection did not reflect host relative abundance. Olneya tesota was parasitized at a higher frequency than expected from its abundance and maintained the highest mistletoe loads per individual host. In contrast, P. velutina was infected less frequently than expected. Infection frequency increased with host tree height for all hosts. Mistletoe seed deposition by avian dispersers differed among host species and was disproportionately high in O. tesota and P. velutina. Seed deposition was higher in infected than in non-infected host trees, and increased with tree height in O. tesota but not in C. microphyllum. We suspect that increased seed deposition with height in O. tesota may be due to the preference of seed-dispersing birds for higher perches. Some host tree species, such as C. microphyllum and A. constricta, probably received fewer mistletoe seeds because birds avoid hosts with dense and spiny crowns. Mistletoe populations are plant metapopulations in which host trees are patches and the frequency of infection in each host species/patch type is the result of interspecific differences in the balance between mistletoe colonization and extinction. From this perspective, our study of host use and seed dispersal is a metapopulation study of patch occupancy and propagule distribution among available patch types. Our seed-dispersal study demonstrates that the mechanisms that create pattern in patchy plant populations can be investigated in mistletoe systems.
20696302|Forecasts of species range shifts under climate change are fraught with uncertainties and ensemble forecasting may provide a framework to deal with such uncertainties. Here, a novel approach to partition the variance among modeled attributes, such as richness or turnover, and map sources of uncertainty in ensembles of forecasts is presented. We model the distributions of 3837 New World birds and project them into 2080. We then quantify and map the relative contribution of different sources of uncertainty from alternative methods for niche modeling, general circulation models (AOGCM), and emission scenarios. The greatest source of uncertainty in forecasts of species range shifts arises from using alternative methods for niche modeling, followed by AOGCM, and their interaction. Our results concur with previous studies that discovered that projections from alternative models can be extremely varied, but we provide a new analytical framework to examine uncertainties in models by quantifying their importance and mapping their patterns.
30243167|Species distribution models should provide conservation practioners with estimates of the spatial distributions of species requiring attention. These species are often rare and have limited known occurrences, posing challenges for creating accurate species distribution models. We tested four modeling methods (Bioclim, Domain, GARP, and Maxent) across 18 species with different levels of ecological specialization using six different sample size treatments and three different evaluation measures. Our assessment revealed that Maxent was the most capable of the four modeling methods in producing useful results with sample sizes as small as 5, 10 and 25 occurrences. The other methods compensated reasonably well (Domain and GARP) to poorly (Bioclim) when presented with datasets of small sample sizes. We show that multiple evaluation measures are necessary to determine accuracy of models produced with presence-only data. Further, we found that accuracy of models is greater for species with small geographic ranges and limited environmental tolerance, ecological characteristics of many rare species. Our results indicate that reasonable models can be made for some rare species, a result that should encourage conservationists to add distribution modeling to their toolbox.
30244649|We analyzed the most extensive data set of tree inventory plots spread over the complete Amazon basin and Guiana shield. We aimed to separate the regional and local tree alpha-diversity to investigate the drivers of diversity at the relevant scale. Our results are consistent with the partitioning of total tree alpha-diversity into regional and local components, which are controlled by evolutionary- and ecological processes, respectively. Regional diversity is correlated with palaeo-climatic stability (31%), and long-term large-scale ecosystem dynamics (14%), as represented by the age of the geological formation. Both mechanisms contribute to high diversity in the central to western Amazon. Actual rainfall seasonality is correlated with regional tree diversity to a certain extent (19%), but we argue that this is of little consequence for the evolutionary drivers of the regional species pool. Frequency of disturbance is the main process driving local diversity, although its explanatory power is relatively small (17%).
3682773|North American freshwater mussels are a highly threatened group with half of the fauna already federally listed as threatened or endangered, candidates for listing, or believed extinct. Using data from 16 river systems, I examined distributional attributes of mussel species to gain insight into the importance of regional-scale processes vs local-scale processes to species distribution patterns. There was no evidence of density compensation or saturation, which would have indirectly indicated that competition was important in structuring mussel communities. Rather, there was a positive correlation between summed species densities and regional richness, indicating that regional forces may be strongly contributing to community structure. Incidence, abundance and nestedness patterns all indicated a hierarchical niche structure for these mussel assemblages. I hypothesize that these hierarchical patterns may be the result of differences in colonization potentials among mussel species as a result of different fish-host requirements among mussels, and of the abundance and distribution of those host fishes.
30243169|The neutral model posits that random variation in extinction and speciation events, coupled with limited dispersal, can account for many community properties, including the relative abundance distribution. There are important analogies between this model in ecology and a three-tiered hierarchy of models in evolution (Hardy Weinburg, drift, drift and selection). Because it invokes random processes and is used in statistical tests of empirical data, the neutral model can be interpreted as a specialized form of a null model. However, the application and interpretation of neutral models differs from that of standard null models in three important ways: 1) whereas most null models incorporate specieslevel constraints that are often associated with niche differences, the neutral model assumes that all species are functionally equivalent. 2) Null models are usually fit with constraints that are measured directly from the data set itself. In contrast, the neutral model requires parameters for speciation, extinction, and migration rates that are almost never measured directly, so their values must be guessed at or fitted. 3) Most important, null models are viewed as simple statistical descriptors: unspecified "random" forces generate variation in a simple model that excludes particular biological mechanisms (usually species interactions). Although the neutral model was originally framed as a null model, recent proponents of the neutral model have begun to treat it as a literal process-based description of community assembly. These differences lie at the heart of much of the recent controversy over the neutral model. If the neutral model is truly a process-based model, then its assumptions should be directly tested, and its predictions should be compared to those of an appropriate null model. Such tests are rarely informative, and most empirical data sets can be fit more parsimoniously to a simple log-normal distribution. Because unknown parameters in the neutral model must usually be guessed at or fit in ad-hoc ways, classical frequentist tests are compromised, and may be biased towards finding a good fit with the model. There has been little analysis of the potential for type I and type II errors in statistical tests of the neutral model. The neutral model has recently been proposed as a specific form of more general null models in biogeography (the mid-domain effect) and community ecology (species co-occurrence). In both cases, the neutral model is qualitatively, but not quantitatively, similar to the predictions of classic null models. However, because the important parameters in the neutral model can rarely be measured directly, it may be of limited value as a null hypothesis for empirical tests. Future progress may come from moving beyond dichotomous tests of neutral versus null models. Instead, the neutral model might be viewed as a mechanism that contributes to pattern along with other processes. Alternatively, the fit of data to the neutral model can be compared to the fit to other process-based models that are not based on neutrality assumptions. Finally, the neutral model can also be tested directly if its parameters can be estimated independently of the test data. However, these approaches may require more data than are often available. For these reasons, simple null model tests will continue to be important in the evaluation of the neutral model.
30243163|Using new tools (boosted regression trees) in predictive biogeography, with extensive spatial distribution data for > 19 000 species, we developed predictive models for South African plant species richness patterns. Further, biome level analysis explored possible functional determinants of country-wide regional species richness. Finally, to test model reliability independently, we predicted potential alien invasive plant species richness with an independent dataset. Amongst the different hypotheses generally invoked to explain species diversity (energy, favorableness, topographic heterogeneity, irregularity and seasonality), results revealed topographic heterogeneity as the most powerful single explanatory variable for indigenous South African plant species richness. Some biome-specific responses were observed, i.e. two of the five analyzed biomes (Fynbos and Grassland) had richness best explained by the "species-favorableness" hypothesis, but even in this case, topographic heterogeneity was also a primary predictor. This analysis, the largest conducted on an almost exhaustive species sample in a species-rich region, demonstrates the preeminence of topographic heterogeneity in shaping the spatial pattern of regional plant species richness. Model reliability was confirmed by the considerable predictive power for alien invasive species richness. It thus appears that topographic heterogeneity controls species richness in two main ways: firstly, by providing an abundance of ecological niches in contemporary space (revealed by alien invasive species richness relationships) and secondly, by facilitating the persistence of ecological niches through time. The extraordinary richness of the South African Fynbos biome, a world-renowned hotspot of biodiversity with the steepest environmental gradients in South Africa, may thus have arisen through both mechanisms. Comparisons with similar regions of the world outside South Africa are needed to confirm the generality of topographic heterogeneity and favorableness as predictors of plant richness.
3683040|Carex bigelowii is an arctic-alpine sedge that shows an extensive clonal growth, and in many years also has a high degree of flowering. To see which factors are most important in determining the sexual reproductive success, the effects of self- and cross-pollination, pollen donor distance, amount of pollen, temperature, and time of flowering were studied. The study was conducted at Latnjajaure Field Station, northern Sweden and Thingvellir National Park, Iceland during three field seasons. Experimentally increased air temperature raised the fruit set and the fruit weight, in two of the three seasons. Pollen donor distance did not influence either fruit set or fruit weight, and there was no difference in fruit weight between selfing and cross-pollination. An increased amount of pollen raised the fruit set, but did not affect fruit weight. The time of flowering was also important; there was a negative relationship between flowering time and fruit set and fruit weight, i.e. late flowering ramets had a lower fruit set and fruit weight. The results suggest that Carex bigelowii is an outcrossed species where the reproductive success is mainly determined by the weather, and that there are differences between the two study sites.
3683844|This article explores patterns of insect herbivore distribution in the canopy of the Laurisilva forests on seven islands in the Azores archipelago. To our knowledge, this is one of the first extensive study of this type in tree or shrub canopies of oceanic island ecosystems. One of the most frequently debated characteristics of such ecosystem is the likely prevalence of vague, ill-defined niches due to taxonomic disharmony, which may have implications for insect-plant interactions. For instance, an increase in ecological opportunities for generalist species is expected due to the lack of predator groups and reduced selection for chemical defence in host plants. The following two questions were addressed: 1) Are specialists species rare, and insect herbivore species randomly distributed among host plant species in the Azores? 2) Are the variances in insect herbivore species composition, frequency and richness explained by host plants or by regional island effects? We expect a proportional distribution of herbivore species between host plants, influenced by host frequency and distinct island effects; otherwise, deviation from expectation might suggest habitat preference for specific host tree crowns. Canopy beating tray samples were performed on seven islands, comprising 50 transects with 1 to 3 plant species each (10 replicates per species), giving 1320 samples from ten host species trees or shrubs in total. From a total of 129 insect herbivore species, a greater number of herbivore species was found on Juniperus brevifolia (s = 65) and Erica azorica (s = 53). However, the number of herbivore species per individual tree crown was higher for E. azorica than for any other host, on all islands, despite the fact that it was only the fourth more abundant plant. In addition, higher insect species richness and greater insect abundance were found on the trees of Santa Maria Island, the oldest in the archipelago. Insect species composition was strongly influenced by the presence of E. azorica, which was the only host plant with a characteristic fauna across the archipelago, whereas the fauna of other plant crowns was grouped by islands. The great insect occurrence on E. azorica reflects strong habitat fidelity, but only for species were clearly specialists. Our findings indicate a broadly generalist fauna. The simplicity of Azorean Laurisilva contributed to the understanding of insect-plant mechanisms in canopy forest habitats.
3683701| I make a summary review of how El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) determines peculiar atmospheric and oceanographic conditions in western South America, thus affecting precipitation patterns in adjacent land masses, with cascading effects on marine and terrestrial plants, on sea and land birds, and on marine and terrestrial mammals. With regard to terrestrial ecosystems, I discuss the following biotic responses to El Nio-driven precipitation: 1) aboveground vegetation flushes immediately among herbs but not among shrubs. 2) The seed bank is quickly replenished of ephemeral seeds, but perennial seeds recover one year later. 3) Small rodents irrupt within months of El Nio arrival, but larger ones take a full year to increase. 4) Predator numbers lag one year behind their mammal prey, with smaller predators responding more quickly. Considering these responses, I offer a simplified model of El Nio-driven bottom-up control in terrestrial ecosystems of western South America. Apart from the direct links already described, there is a weak feedback loop between the plant compartments (vegetation and seeds) and their herbivores; primary productivy is the driving force, and is little affected by herbivory. Another weak feedback loop links herbivores and their predators: the latter seem to just "surf" over prey levels, skimming excess prey. 
30244581|Although topographic complexity is often associated with high bird diversity at broad geographic scales, little is known about the relative contributions of geomorphologic heterogeneity and altitudinal climatic gradients found in mountains. We analysed the birds in the western mountains of the New World to examine the two-fold effect of topography on species richness patterns, using two grains at the intercontinental extent and within temperate and tropical latitudes. Birds were also classified as montane or lowland, based on their overall distributions in the hemisphere. We estimated range in temperature within each cell and the standard deviation in elevation (topographic roughness) based on all pixels within each cell. We used path analysis to test for the independent effects of topographic roughness and temperature range on species richness while controlling for the collinearity between topographic variables. At the intercontinental extent, actual evapotranspiration (AET) was the primary driver of species richness patterns of all species taken together and of lowland species considered separately. In contrast, within-cell temperature gradients strongly influenced the richness of montane species. Regional partitioning of the data also suggested that range in temperature either by itself or acting in combination with AET had the strongest "effect" on montane bird species richness everywhere. Topographic roughness had weaker "effects" on richness variation throughout, although its positive relationship with richness increased slightly in the tropics. We conclude that bird diversity gradients in mountains primarily reflect local climatic gradients. Widespread (lowland) species and narrow-ranged (montane) species respond similarly to changes in the environment, differing only in that the richness of lowland species correlates better with broad-scale climatic effects (AET), whereas mesoscale climatic variation accounts for richness patterns of montane species. Thus, latitudinal and altitudinal gradients in species richness can be explained through similar climatic-based processes, as has long been argued.
3682928|An analysis of the relationships between lotic macroinvertebrates and environmental variables was carried out on material from 60 riffle sites in streams in northern Sweden. The approach involved the use of TWINSPAN classification and canonical correspondence analysis on presence/absence data from two seasons (spring and autumn). Variables most strongly associated with distribution patterns of assemblages were drainage area, elevation, water quality in terms of alkalinity, colour and phosphate, and the presence of macrophytes. The significance of affinities of different species to these variables are discussed. The eight clusters resulting from the TWINSPAN analysis could biologically be interpreted as classes of taxa related to stream size, chemical conditions and algae. A multiple regression analysis for predicting species richness using three independent variables, viz. drainage area, amount or organic matter, and discharge was constructed. The results of the study could be used as a starting point for further work on the community organization of benthic stream assemblages.
3683765|While exotic plant invasions are thought to lead to declines in native species, the long-term impacts of such invasions on community structure are poorly known. Furthermore, it is unknown how exotic plant invasions compare to invasions by native species. We present data from 40 yr of continuous vegetation sampling of 10 fields released from agriculture to examine the effects of invasions on species richness. The effects of both exotic and native species invasions on species richness were largely driven by variations among fields with most species not significantly affecting species richness. However, invasion and dominance by the exotics Agropyron repens, Lonicera japonica, Rosa multiflora, Trifolium pratense and the native Solidago canadensis were associated with declines in richness. Invasions by exotic and native species during old field succession have similar effects on species richness with dominance by species of either group being associated with loss of species richness. Exotic species invasions tended to have stronger effects on richness than native invasions. No evidence was found of residual effects of invasions because the impacts of the invasion disappeared with the decline of the invading population. When pooled across species, heavy invasion by exotic species resulted in greater loss of species richness than invasion by native species. Studies of invasion that utilize multiple sites must account for variability among sites. In our study, had we not included field as a factor we would have incorrectly concluded that invasion consistently resulted in changes in species richness.
3683281|Wildlife-habitat models are an important tool in wildlife management today, and by far the majority of these predict aspects of species distribution (abundance or presence) as a proxy measure of habitat quality. Unfortunately, few are tested on independent data, and of those that are, few show useful predictive skill. We demonstrate that six critical assumptions underlie distribution based wildlife-habitat models, all of which must be valid for the model to predict habitat quality. We outline these assumptions in a meta-model, and discuss methods for their validation. Even where all six assumptions show a high level of validity, there is still a strong likelihood that the model will not predict habitat quality. However, the meta-model does suggest habitat quality can be predicted more accurately if distributional data are ignored, and variables more indicative of habitat quality are modelled instead.
3683664|Statistical models of environment-abundance relationships may be influenced by spatial autocorrelation in abundance, environmental variables, or both. Failure to account for spatial autocorrelation can lead to incorrect conclusions regarding both the absolute and relative importance of environmental variables as determinants of abundance. We consider several classes of statistical models that are appropriate for modeling environment-abundance relationships in the presence of spatial autocorrelation, and apply these to three case studies: 1) abundance of voles in relation to habitat characteristics; 2) a plant competition experiment; and 3) abundance of Orbatid mites along environmental gradients. We find that when spatial pattern is accounted for in the modeling process, conclusions about environmental control over abundance can change dramatically. We conclude with five lessons: 1) spatial models are easy to calculate with several of the most common statistical packages; 2) results from spatially-structured models may point to conclusions radically different from those suggested by a spatially independent model; 3) not all spatial autocorrelation in abundances results from spatial population dynamics; it may also result from abundance associations with environmental variables not included in the model; 4) the different spatial models do have different mechanistic interpretations in terms of ecological processes - thus ecological model selection should take primacy over statistical model selection; 5) the conclusions of the different spatial models are typically fairly similar - making any correction is more important than quibbling about which correction to make.
30243279|Changes in carnivore abundance can alter the distribution and abundance of plants on a community wide basis, an effect known as a trophic cascade. Because alien predators can have a disproportionate impact, compared to native predators, on herbivore populations, they may induce stronger trophic cascades in plant communities than native predators. We studied the indirect effects of the removal of an alien predator, the American mink Mustela vison on plant communities on small islands in the Baltic Sea, SW Finland. Mink had been removed from a group of islands for 12 yr, while another group of islands with mink presence served as a control area. Field voles Microtus agrestis and bank voles Myodes glareolus exert strong grazing pressure on the island vegetation and are an important part of mink diet. On nine islands of the mink removal area and five islands of the control area we studied the vegetation in ten randomly chosen plots; five in herbaceous and five in woody (i.e. dwarf shrub) vegetation. We studied the cascading impacts of mink predation on grassy and woody vegetation using the Shannon diversity and equitability indices and comparing abundances of different species between mink removal and control islands. Diversity and equitability of plant communities were higher on mink removal islands. In grassy patches, abundances of several species differed between mink removal and control islands. Our results demonstrate, for the first time, that alien predator removal may induce a trophic cascade on small islands.
3683743|Changes in agricultural land-use have been suggested to contribute to the decline of several bird species through negative effects on their food supply during breeding. One important change in land-use has been loss of pastures, especially permanent pastures. In this study we investigated how different forms of agricultural land-use affected foraging success of a declining bird species, the European starling Sturnus vulgaris. We let caged starlings forage in different forms of agricultural fields and determined time spent foraging and foraging success. The starlings' activity level (time spent actively foraging) as well as the number of prey caught per time unit was strongly related to the abundance of prey in soil samples. Also the body mass change during the experiment was positively related to activity level and prey capture rate. We found consistent differences in foraging variables between habitats. In spring sown grain starlings were least active and found fewer prey items at a lower rate than in any other habitat. The other three habitats differed less, but in general mowed hay fields appeared slightly more valuable than the cultivated and natural pastures. We did not find any differences between natural and cultivated pastures in foraging variables. Thus, starling foraging success is higher in grass-covered fields than in cultivated fields, but the management of the grass-covered fields mattered less. The results are consistent with starlings having higher population densities and breeding success in areas with higher availability of pasture. We suggest that the physical structure of the habitat (sward height) and moisture may be additional variables that need to be taken into account to explain starling breeding density and success in the agricultural landscape.
3682948|Associations between spatial distribution of ground-beetles (Carabidae) and environmental variables were studied over three hierarchical scales in deciduous forest in central Alberta, Canada. We also examined the relationship between species abundance and distribution on several scales ranging from the local scale of our study to that of the North American temperate deciduous forest. Understorey plant cover, tree cover, and occurrence of other carabids were associated with distribution of particular species at the smallest ecological scales within populations. However, great differences in population sizes of carabid species among five distinct sites several kilometres apart were not correlated with variation in the same environmental variables. In central Alberta, abundance and extent of distribution were correlated positively among the 30 carabid species collected, and distributions of the ten species classified as 'core' species were generally aggregated at all spatial scales. On the continental scale, there was a significant positive correlation between abundance and distribution for the 114 species of the entire data set, and the six species meeting the criteria of 'core' taxa on this scale, were also 'core' elements in central Alberta. Further analysis of covariance of core elements of species assemblages across different taxa provides a sound empirical approach for understanding community organization.
3683058| In this study of bryophyte diversity in 110 patches of spruce forests of bilberry, small fern, low herb, tall fern and tall herb type in Sr-Trndelag, central Norway, each patch (from 0.24 to 9.33 ha) was classified as one main vegetation type and one successional stage or cutting class. The bryophytes in each patch were censused in randomly established squares of 10  10 m, supplemented by complete sampling in the rest of the patch. A number of environmental variables was sampled, and the data sets treated with DCA and CCA. Altogether 210 bryophytes (71 liverworts and 139 mosses) were found in the squares, and 285 (96 liverworts and 189 mosses) in the forest patches. The average number of liverworts, mosses and bryophytes in forest patches increased gradually from the dry and poor to the moist and rich forest types. Several red listed and other interesting spruce forest species had their only or main occurrence in the rich and humid forest, and in old cutting classes. 
3683770|There is a long tradition of grazing by semi-domestic reindeer and sheep in alpine and sub-alpine Scandinavian habitats, but present management regimes are questioned from a conservation point of view. In this review we discuss plant diversity patterns in the Scandinavian mountains in a global, regional and local perspective. The main objective was to identify processes that influence diversity at different spatial scales with a particular focus on grazing. In a global perspective the species pool of the Scandinavian mountains is limited, partly reflecting the general latitudinal decline of species but also historical and ecological factors operating after the latest glaciation. At the local scale, both productivity and disturbance are primary factors structuring diversity, but abiotic factors such as soil pH, snow distribution and temperature are also important. Although evidence is scarce, grazing favours local species richness in productive habitats, whereas species richness decreases with grazing when productivity is low. Regional patterns of plant diversity is set by, 1) the species pool, 2) the heterogeneity and fragmentation of communities, and 3) local diversity of each plant community. We suggest that local shifts in community composition depend both on the local grazing frequency and the return-time of the plant community after a grazing session. In addition, an increasing number of grazing-modified local patches homogenises the vegetation and is likely to reduce the regional plant diversity. The time scale of local shifts in community composition depends on plant colonisation and persistence. From a mechanistic point of view, diversity patterns at a regional scale also depend on the regional dynamics of single species. Colonisation is usually a slow and irregular process in alpine environments, whereas the capacity for extended local persistence is generally high. Although the poor knowledge of plant regional dynamics restricts our understanding of how grazing influences plant diversity, we conclude that grazing is a key process for maintaining biodiversity in the Scandinavian mountains.
3683163|A severe drought in 1977 resulted in cessation of normally permanent flow in a northern California (USA) springbrook, and no individuals of the numerically dominant macroinvertebrate, the caddisfly Gumaga nigricula (McL.), survived. Prior to habitat loss (1976) this population was multiple cohort; two years after habitat recovery (1979) a single-cohort population was present. The shift in age structure back to pre-drought conditions occurred gradually: median head capsule width in 1976 (pre-drought): 0.39 mm; 1981 (post-drought): 0.95 mm; 1982: 0.99 mm; 1983: 0.59 mm; 1984: 0.63 mm; 1985: 0.63 mm; 1986: 0.45 mm. Age structure from 1981-1985 was significantly different (p < 0.001) from that occurring before habitat loss in 1976; age structure in 1986 was not significantly different from that in 1976. The ten-year time for return to the original population age structure could be influenced by the isolation of the springbrook from other colonization sources, gradual increases in population density, and differential growth reflecting food availability.
30243256|Comparative methods have commonly been applied in macroecological research. However, few methods exist to map and analyze phylogenetic variation in geographical space. Here we develop a general analytical framework to partition the phylogenetic and ecological structures of macroecological patterns in geographic space. As an example, we apply the framework to evaluate interspecific patterns of body size geographic variation (Bergmann's rule) in European Carnivora. We model the components of variance attributable to ecological and phylogenetic effects, and to the shared influence of both factors. Spatial patterns in the ecological component are stronger than those in the original body size data. More importantly, the magnitude of intraspecific body size patterns (as measured by the correlation coefficient between body size and latitude) is significantly correlated with the ecological component across species, providing a unified interpretation for Bergmann's rule at multiple levels of biological hierarchy. This approach provides a better understanding of patterns in macroecological traits and allows improved understanding of their underlying ecological and evolutionary mechanisms.
3682842|Vegetation and seed bank changes due to the replacement of a native woodland 29 yr ago by coniferous plantations (evergreen coniferous Pinus radiata and deciduous coniferous Larix kaempferi) were studied in a replicated experiment in the Basque Country, northern Spain. In the vegetation the species richness was lower in both coniferous plantations than in the native woodland but there was no significant difference in species richness between the two coniferous plantations. The highest similarity between the vegetation and the seed bank was in the P. radiata plantations (0.51). There was higher vegetation similarity between the native woodland and the larch plantation (0.65) than that with the pine plantation (0.58). Seed bank species richness was higher in the larch plantation than in the native woodland but species richness in the seed bank did not differ between the coniferous plantations. The seed bank showed no difference in the species similarity between the plantations and the native woodland. This was mainly due to the similarity between the broad ranged species. In the coniferous plantations the vegetation diversity was lower than in the native woodland; however, in the seed bank the diversity was higher. Coniferous plantations affected mainly the shade-tolerant and shade-intolerant vernals (Caltha palustris, Galium odoratum, Heleborus viridis and Saxifraga hirsuta), which disappeared from the field layer of plantations while the shade-intolerant not vernals were favoured by the plantations (Blackstonia perfoliata, Danthonia decumbens, Deschampsia flexuosa, Hypericum androsaemum, Holcus lanatus, Lotus corniculatus and Plantago lanceolata). There was no significant difference in vegetation or seed bank between the two types of coniferous plantations.
3683228| Multivariate statistical techniques were used to examine the relationships between surface-sediment cladoceran assemblages and 28 physical and chemical variables in 53 small subarctic lakes from northern Fennoscandia. The lakes were distributed along a steep eco-climatic gradient, spanning boreal corniferous forest to treeless tundra. In general, the sites were small, oligotrophic, and bathymetrically simple, with little or no disturbance in their catchments. From the initial 53 localities, only 36 contained a sufficient number of cladoceran remains for reasonable quantification. From these, a total of 29 cladoceran taxa representing 19 genera were identified, comprising predominantly littoral chydorid species. A constrained redundancy analysis (RDA) and associated Monte Carlo permutation tests indicated that maximum lake depth, sediment organic content, epilimnetic summer temperature, lake perimeter, and lake catchment area made statistically significant (p  0.05) contributions to explaining the variance in the cladoceran taxon data. These five variables together accounted for 67.7% of the explained variance, and made a unique contribution of 26.8% to the total variance; all physical determinants independently captured 33.2% of the total variance. The significance of the most powerful explanatory variables is discussed in the paper in detail, and autecological information regarding the most common cladoceran taxa is given. To assess the potential of cladoceran assemblages in environmental reconstruction, quantitative inference models for mean July water and air temperatures were developed for the cladoceran assemblage using partial least squares (PLS) regression. The final prediction model yielded a root mean squared error of prediction (RMSEP), as assessed by jackknifing, of 1.19C for Cladocera-water temperature data-set, whereas the cladoceran assemblages showed only very weak relationships to mean July air temperature. The overall results emphasize the role of physical factors in regulating species abundance and distributions in these environmentally sensitive ecotonal lakes. 
3683078|Although the importance of plant-created heterogeneity in arid lands has long been recognized, little information is available on the dynamics of these patches. We studied the changes in soil and vegetation associated with the presence of a long-lived tree, Acacia papyrocarpa, in arid lands of south Australia. The soil under young individuals was not different from the soil in the surrounding open spaces, confirming the assumption that establishment does not occur preferentially in high fertility patches. The amount of organic matter, total N, total S, total and available P, and soil salinity increased with the age of the tree until maturity, and declined as the canopy of the tree became more fragmented. The content of organic mater and total and available P remained higher than that in the matrix soil for at least fifty years after the death of the tree. There were several species almost completely restricted to the canopy environment. Some, but not all of them, have bird dispersed seeds. One of these species (Enchylaena tomentosa) established and grew better in soil collected under tree canopies in a glasshouse experiment, independently of light environment. After the death of the trees the under-canopy species declined rapidly, and the patches were colonized by invasive annual species, and short lived perennials. Our results suggest that patch dynamics driven by the population dynamics of woody perennial species have paramount importance for the ecosystem, and community dynamics of arid lands.
3683520|Reindeer lichens are an important component of northern ecosystems. The aim of this study was to measure the growth rate of terricolous lichens as it is a key parameter involved in productivity of these ecosystems and an important part of lichen tolerance to reindeer grazing. Furthermore, the natural succession and the long-term effects of reindeer grazing on lichen community characteristics in two contrasting habitats were investigated as well as the interactions between lichen cover and mosses and vascular plants. Biomass and coverage measurements were conducted in a lichen woodland and in a subarctic heath with grazed and ungrazed areas in northern Finland. Measurements spanning over 13 yr of undisturbed development show that the growth rate of Cladina stellaris can be as high as > 0.17 g g
20696306|Energy development has been occurring in the intermountain western United States for over a century, yet few studies have attempted to spatially quantify the impacts of this disturbance on native ecosystems. We used temporal remotely sensed data for the Pinedale Anticline Project Area (PAPA) in western Wyoming, a region that has experienced increased natural gas development within the past 10 yr, to quantify the spatiotemporal distribution of Wyoming big sagebrush Artemisia tridentata, natural gas development, and other landcover types. Our analyses included 5 Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) images of the PAPA over a 22-yr period (1985-2006). We determined whether Wyoming big sagebrush spatiotemporal patterns were associated with natural gas development or other landcover types. We also developed a footprint model to determine the direct and indirect impacts of natural gas development on the distribution of Wyoming big sagebrush habitats. Over the 22-yr period, we observed an inverse relationship between the amount of Wyoming big sagebrush habitat and natural gas development. During this time, Wyoming big sagebrush habitat declined linearly at a rate of 0.2% yr (4.5% total net loss), whereas natural gas development increased exponentially at a rate of 20% yr (4800% total net increase). Our evaluation indicated that, by 2006, natural gas development directly impacted 2.7% (1750 ha) of original Wyoming big sagebrush habitat. Indirect impacts, quantified to account for degraded habitat quality, affected as much as 58.5% (assuming 1000-m buffers) of the original Wyoming big sagebrush habitat. Integrating assessments of the direct and indirect impacts will yield a better elucidation of the overall effects of disturbances on ecosystem function and quality.
30244674|A major focus of geographical ecology and macroecology is to understand the causes of spatially structured ecological patterns. However, achieving this understanding can be complicated when using multiple regression, because the relative importance of explanatory variables, as measured by regression coefficients, can shift depending on whether spatially explicit or non-spatial modeling is used. However, the extent to which coefficients may shift and why shifts occur are unclear. Here, we analyze the relationship between environmental predictors and the geographical distribution of species richness, body size, range size and abundance in 97 multi-factorial data sets. Our goal was to compare standardized partial regression coefficients of non-spatial ordinary least squares regressions (i.e. models fitted using ordinary least squares without taking autocorrelation into account; "OLS models" hereafter) and eight spatial methods to evaluate the frequency of coefficient shifts and identify characteristics of data that might predict when shifts are likely. We generated three metrics of coefficient shifts and eight characteristics of the data sets as predictors of shifts. Typical of ecological data, spatial autocorrelation in the residuals of OLS models was found in most data sets. The spatial models varied in the extent to which they minimized residual spatial autocorrelation. Patterns of coefficient shifts also varied among methods and datasets, although the magnitudes of shifts tended to be small in all cases. We were unable to identify strong predictors of shifts, including the levels of autocorrelation in either explanatory variables or model residuals. Thus, changes in coefficients between spatial and non-spatial methods depend on the method used and are largely idiosyncratic, making it difficult to predict when or why shifts occur. We conclude that the ecological importance of regression coefficients cannot be evaluated with confidence irrespective of whether spatially explicit modelling is used or not. Researchers may have little choice but to be more explicit about the uncertainty of models and more cautious in their interpretation.
3683178|The metazoan food webs of Nepenthes pitcher plants exhibit marked geographical variation. In previous studies this was attributed to a number of biogeographical factors, including island area, local arthropod biodiversity and degrees of spatial and temporal variation of the host Nepenthes species. Recent investigations showed that some assumptions made in compiling these webs are erroneous and that predation is more widespread in these communities than previously assumed. In this study the new data are used to revise several webs from the geographical studies for comparison with the original versions. Connectance values and predator:prey ratios increased significantly after revision (though all other food web statistics did not), providing evidence for widespread predation. This is presumed to be a result of some metazoan species adopting variable feeding strategies, depending on which food sources are available in their pitcher. Despite this, the geographical patterns are still evident after revision of the webs. Whether or not these are actually due to geographical factors is discussed. It is suggested that the structure of Nepenthes webs is influenced by four major factors: geographical, deterministic, stochastic and host pitcher (the latter was discounted in previous studies), but that the relative importance of each factor is highly variable and cannot be quantified at present.
3683382|Previous studies have shown that the invasive spread of Rhododendron ponticum in the British Isles is influenced by the more favourable environmental conditions in the new territory than in the species' home range. In this study, we asked whether the species' invasion success might also involve a genotypic background for higher growth and germination rates in invasive populations. We tested the hypotheses that invasive populations have higher absolute germination rates, germinate faster and exhibit higher growth rates. We present data from greenhouse and climate chamber experiments with seed material and Rhododendron cuttings from six populations each of native Georgian, native Spanish and invasive Irish populations subjected to different temperature environments. There were no differences in the maximum germination rate and optimum germination temperature between native and invasive origins. We found significant differences in germination velocity with the Irish seeds responding most rapidly to all germination treatments. Accordingly, in the growth experiment the invasive Irish origins had the highest relative growth rates in all environments tested. Our results provide evidence for a genetic shift in invasive populations towards an increased investment in growth and towards a faster germination rate. Both traits would contribute to explaining this species' range expansion. The underlying evolutionary mechanisms for this shift are discussed, including the possibility of hybridisation or of an ecological release from hitherto experienced constraints in the native area.
30244658|This study presents a graph-theoretical modelling approach using daily movements and habitat demands of different target bird species in an urban context to assess: 1) habitable land cover types, 2) threshold distances between patches of habitat, 3) the required minimum accessible habitat areas and 4) the effects of barriers and stepping stones. The modelling approach is tested using empirical data from field surveys in the urban area of Stockholm, Sweden. The results show that groups of small habitat patches can house the same species as larger contiguous patches as long as they are perceived as functionally connected by the inhabitant organisms. Furthermore, we found that binary habitat/ non-habitat representations of the landscape could roughly explain the variation in species occurrence, as long as habitat was properly defined. However, the explanatory power of the landscape models increased when features of matrix heterogeneity such as stepping stones and barriers were accounted for. Synthesis and application: in a world where forest ecosystems are becoming increasingly fragmented there is an urgent need to find comprehensive and scientifically relevant methods for managing and planning ecosystems. This study shows that: 1) groups of well placed small habitat patches can, together, be sufficient to attract birds in intensively developed areas, 2) the presented modelling approach can help identify such groups of patches, 3) matrix heterogeneity should preferably be accounted for, and 4) proper assessments of habitable land cover types are important. Finally, we argue that the modelling approach applied here may substantially improve landscape management and planning at scales ranging from whole landscapes down to neighbourhoods.
3683681|The advent of GIS is initiating a rapid increase in the utilization of wildlife-habitat models as tools for species and habitat management. However, such models rarely include estimates of interspecific interactions among explanatory variables. We tested the importance of such variables by using the peregrine falcon Falco peregrinus, a medium-sized raptor frequently reported to be affected by heterospecifics, as a model species. In an Alpine population, compared to random locations, peregrines selected breeding sites farther from conspecifics, on taller cliffs, with higher availability of farmland and closer to raven Corvus corax nests. Within suitable habitat, peregrines selected sites near ravens and far from elevations associated with golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos nests. Productivity increased with cliff size, farmland availability (rich in the local main prey) and with proximity to ravens, suggesting that the observed choices were adaptive. Finally, at the regional level, peregrine density peaked at low elevation and was positively associated with raven density. The results suggested an active breeding association of peregrines with ravens, which may provide early-warning cues against predators and safe alternative nest-sites. They also confirmed the importance of including estimates of interspecific interactions among explanatory variables, which may: 1) make models more realistic; 2) increase their predictive power by lowering unexplained variance due to unmeasured factors; 3) provide unexpected results such as the cryptic, large-scale breeding association of our study; and 4) stimulate further hypothesis formulation and testing, ultimately leading to deeper ecological knowledge of the study system.
30243265|Most studies of habitat selection by large herbivores focus on the resource availability and interactions with other species, but neglect the importance of an animal being familiar with an area due to past use. Yet, studies of the establishment and retention of territories, home ranges, birth sites, and feeding site choices in experimental settings have shown the importance of spatial familiarity at these scales. We used GPS locations of translocated wapiti Cervus elaphus, resource selection functions (RSF), and time-to-return to examine whether previous site use was important for selection of sites by wapiti in west-central Alberta. To construct RSFs, we used logistic regression that included spatial familiarity (presence of a previous GPS location within a 50-m radius) as well as estimates of herbaceous and shrub biomass, elevation, aspect, slope, and predation risk to wapiti from wolf predation, as dependent variables. We found that previous use had a strong positive relationship with subsequent site use, indicating that wapiti were not avoiding previously visited locations, as would be expected if memory of forage depletion (which we did not measure) determined response to familiar locations. Revisited sites were of higher quality, i.e. had more moderate terrain, higher forage, and lower predation risk, than sites that were not revisited, indicating that the selection of familiar locations was likely not the result of avoidance of unfamiliar locations. Finally, animals demonstrated preference for familiar locations that it had visited most recently, indicating that memory (which would decline with time) of higher site quality, rather than high quality alone, influenced selection for familiar locations. We conclude that spatial familiarity is important not only for large scale processes such as selection of home range and territory, but for smaller scale habitat selection and foraging as well.
3682871|Extinction and artificial reduction in the size of geographical ranges of many species have occurred extensively across the globe because of human activities. In particular, Australian mammals have suffered heavily in the last two hundred years, with the highest number of reported cases of mammal extinctions anywhere. In the present study, we investigated the extent to which human impact has affected contemporary macroecological patterns in Australian terrestrial mammals. After examining patterns relating to body size and range size among the contemporary mammal fauna, we removed the effects of the last two hundred years of human impact by exploring patterns in the pre-European assemblage. This permitted us to determine whether contemporary macroecological patterns are distortions of pre-European patterns. In contrast to the expected pattern of a significant positive relationship between body size and range size, our results showed no significant association for the complete fauna in both cross-species and phylogenetic analyses, even when data were corrected for species extinctions and range reductions. Analyses within families and among species with the same dietary strategy revealed three significant positive relationships (Macropodidae, Peramelidae, and herbivores) and one significant negative relationship (insectivores) within the contemporary assemblage that disappeared when the pre-European assemblage was analysed. A positive relationship also emerged in the pre-European assemblage for the Vombatidae that was not apparent in the contemporary fauna. Thus, correcting for human impact revealed important distortions among contemporary macroecological relationships that have been brought about by human-induced range reduction and extinction. These findings not only provide further evidence that the Australian continent presents a unique and valuable opportunity with which to test the generality of macroecological patterns, but they also have important ramifications for the analysis and interpretation of contemporary macroecological datasets.
3683512|We propose that islands are "less insular" than is generally perceived. This belief results, in part, from the paucity of studies on vagrant species that exploit islands but are not permanent residents with continual breeding populations. We show, via anecdotal evidence extracted from the literature and data acquired on Gulf of California islands, that visitors to insular systems are fairly common. We delineate three types of events beyond the bounds of current biogeographical analysis that make islands less insular: 1) migrants and "accidental" visitors, 2) individuals of a species whose foraging areas encompass many islands or the mainland and islands, and 3) species who "colonize" islands during opportune periods or years but become extinct during difficult times (source-sink situations). Such events potentially significantly affect the ecology and evolution of island inhabitants by such means as increased predation and/or competition, transport of parasites and pathogens, dispersal of seeds and eggs, and genetic introgression and hybridization. Discussion of other "insular" habitats such as freshwater lakes and wildlife refuges illustrate that vagrancy events may be nearly ubiquitous. Studies addressing the frequency and ecological and evolutionary significance of vagrants are required, especially in light of recent and rapid extinctions on islands and the increasing fragmentation of habitats.
3683808|We evaluated the effects of landscape structure, along a broad gradient of deforestation (forest cover 8-88%, 500-m radius), on the spatial distribution of forest birds exposed to winter climatic conditions, in Quebec, Canada. Concurrently, we conducted an experiment to determine if these effects would persist if an unlimited source of energy, provided by food-supplementation, became available. We analyzed these effects at the population level, using count data of black-capped chickadees Poecile atricapillus, but also at the community level, referring to species richness. In one of the two years of the study, before food-supplementation began (November), "forest integrity" (a composite of forest cover and edge density) was positively associated with chickadee abundance and species richness. Each year, forest integrity was also positively associated with chickadee abundance and species richness in landscapes that were supplemented (December-February). However, in control landscapes, during the food-supplementation period, chickadee abundance and species richness tended to decrease with an increase in forest integrity. We argue that the more forested control landscapes facilitated winter emigration of juveniles and transient birds. Conversely, our results further suggest that, in the highly deforested and fragmented control landscapes, birds became "gap-locked" when rigorous winter climatic conditions exacerbated already existing movement constraints.
3683097|The infections of emerging damselfly cohorts by ectoparasitic water mites Arrenurus cuspidator were followed closely over two years in two populations. In one pond Coenagrion puella was the single host species, whereas in the second pond C. hastulatum co-occurred. The prevalences found were close to 100%. The mean daily abundance of mites ranged from 1 to 45 mites per host with a peak after roughly one third of the emergence period. The water mites displayed a clumped distribution on their hosts measured by the variance/mean ratio. No differences in parasite abundance due to host sex, head width, or host species could be detected. The abundance of mites was synchronised with host's emergence patterns. This was stronger in the system with two host species. Shaw and Dobson recently showed a generalised relationship of variance/mean of parasite abundance combining data from 269 host parasite systems. The data presented here and some other water mite associations show a significant deviation from this general rule.
3682978|The relationship between the geographic distribution of consumers and of their hosts (foodplants) is examined using the resident butterfly fauna of Britain. On average, butterfly species that feed on more widely distributed hosts are themselves more widely distributed. However, the relationship is approximately triangular and the upper constraint imposed by the range sizes of hosts is not closely followed; some species have much more restricted ranges than their hosts have. There is no relationship between the proportion of the range of the foodplant that is occupied and the size of the range of the foodplant. Monophagous butterfly species have smaller range sizes than polyphagous species, probably as a consequence of the greater potential range sizes of the latter. Those plant species that are used as hosts by butterflies have larger range sizes than expected by chance, and individual polyphagous butterfly species tend disproportionately to be found in areas containing larger numbers of their host plant species. In sum, this study reveals a complex relationship between the distribution of butterflies and that of their resources (foodplants).
3682947|I studied aspects of the pollination and reproduction ecology of an alpine population of the circumpolar Ranunculus acris (Ranunculaceae) at Hardangervidda, southwest Norway. Dipteran families, mainly Muscidae and Anthomyiidae, were the most frequent flower visitors and pollinators. A single visit by these insects resulted in a seed set of c. 18% of the total potential. Visitation rates were highest early in the flowering season. The longevity of individual flowers of early flowering plants was c. 3 d shorter than that of mid-season flowering individuals. Insect pollinators moved short distances between flowers and they mostly visited near neighbour plants. Experiments showed that Ranunculus acris was self-incompatible and thus dependent on insect visitation for seed production. Early flowering individuals had a very high seed set relative to individuals flowering in mid- and late season, suggesting a strong selection pressure for early flowering in the population. Seed production in this Ranunculus acris population seems to be limited by severe climatic conditions and a low pollination intensity.
3682910|Thirty and fifty years old exclosures established in northeastern Fennoscandia in lichen-rich oligotrophic pine Pinus sylvestris forests on podzolised soil were used to study the effect of reindeer grazing on pine fine roots, microbial activity, and on bryophyte, dwarf shrub and lichen biomasses. There were significantly less lichens, especially Cladina stellaris, at grazed than at ungrazed sites. Coverage of other lichens like C. arbuscula and C. rangiferina and bryophytes, especially Dicranum spp., benefitted from grazing. The biomass of vascular plants, mainly Calluna vulgaris, Empetrum nigrum and Vaccinium vitis-idaea, was reduced at grazed sites, although their coverage was not influenced. Microbial activity was significantly lower at grazed sites. The influence of grazing is most obviously mediated by reduced soil moisture during dry periods at grazed sites. Fine root parameters (per soil and stem volumes) were lower at grazed sites (pPCA = 0.072), the first principal component consisting of a number of fine root tips, length and weight. Grazing decreased all exchangeable nutrients by 30-60% in organic layer. Based on PCA the decrease was significant for exchangeable nutrients, although of individual elements only P and S showed statistically significant difference. The extent of heavy grazing in northeastern Fennoscandia coniferous forest was revealed by remote sensing. It revealed extensive area in which reindeer lichens are reduced in northeastern Finland. The Finnish-Russian border can be clearly distinguished in the satellite image composite.
3683290|Flexibility, efficiency and accountability are considered key attributes of good reserve selection methods. Flexibility, the ability to incorporate all the diversity of considerations, concerns and information that typically impinge on real conservation problems, is fundamental if the particulars of any given situation are to be addressed and land use conflicts are to be effectively resolved. High efficiency, the representation of the maximum diversity of the relevant features (e.g. species) at the minimum cost, is important because reserves will commonly be in direct competition with other forms of land use. Accountability means that the solutions are obtained in a transparent way, allowing others to understand why and how the result was arrived at. Because of the robustness of the general integer linear model, a remarkably rich variety of problems concerning the management and efficient use of scarce resources can be represented as problems of this type. This study starts by analysing a simple representation problem and then develops more general problems that can be applied to a variety of conservation planning exercises. It is illustrated how high flexibility can be attained, while simultaneously addressing efficiency and accountability, by modelling reserve selection questions as integer linear problems.
3683318|Grid square distribution maps have been used widely to measure rates of decline and target conservation resources. However, common species that may have many populations per grid square can decline substantially from within squares without being lost from entire squares. In order to quantify this process, fine scale population and habitat data have been collected for the common blue butterfly Polyommatus icarus in a 35 km
3682898| Although measures of seasonality are common, ecologists have seldom measured inter-annual variation or tested for the presence of a latitudinal gradient. Yet, species diversity and range size may be influenced by latitudinal gradients in climatic variability. Fractal and chaos theories offer new techniques to measure climatic unpredictability by analyzing the dynamics of nonlinear time-series data. We analyzed data on the number of freezing degree-days and date of first permanent ice from 12 weather stations (43-83N) in Canada to describe latitudinal gradients in the timing of seasonal events. Time-series (ca 30 yr) of climatic variables were found to be nonlinear dynamic systems that were neither stochastic nor cyclic. The analyses reveal a latitudinal gradient in system memory length, with high latitude locations displaying shorter memory length (R/S fractal analysis and Lyapunov exponent). This latitudinal gradient is also characterized by more random and irregular fractal patterns (Hurst exponent) associated with higher latitudes. Both of these patterns may be due to the simpler climatic systems in high latitudes as indicated by fewer dynamic variables (lower correlation dimension). Application of fractal and chaos theories show that the timing of seasonal events (i.e. inter-annual variation) comprises a chaotic-dynamic system of comparatively low dimension. 
30243137|Plants growing in diverse communities are believed to exhibit associational resistance to herbivores, but this hypothesis has seldom been tested experimentally for vertebrate herbivores in forest ecosystems. We examined browsing patterns of the two principal mammalian herbivores of Finnish boreal forests, moose and voles, in young stands where tree species diversity and composition were experimentally manipulated. The stands were composed either of monocultures or different 2-5 species mixtures of Norway spruce, Scots pine, Siberian larch, silver birch, and black alder. Voles and moose showed contrasting responses to stand diversity and species composition. In accordance with the predictions of the associational resistance hypothesis, vole damage was higher in tree monocultures than in mixed stands, although stand diversity effects were statistically significant only at one of the three study areas. Voles also damaged more trees in coniferous than in deciduous stands. In contrast, moose browsing tended to increase with the number of tree species in a stand and with the presence of the preferred tree species, birch, in a mixture. The observed differences in vole and moose responses to stand diversity and species composition are likely to be due to different feeding specialisation, foraging patterns, and movement ability of these herbivores. Voles switched to trees only when the supply of a more preferred food (grasses and forbs) was depleted and restricted their feeding choice only to the most palatable tree species regardless of the number of tree species present per stand. In contrast, tree branches and foliage represented an important part of moose diet throughout the year; moose may be able to tolerate secondary plant metabolites of different tree species better than voles and may thus benefit from diet broadening when more tree species are available. Furthermore, the home range size and foraging ability of these two very differently sized herbivores may partly explain the observed differences in utilisation of different tree species. Finally, both moose and voles showed high spatial and temporal variation in their feeding; in particular, vole damage was more influenced by tree species diversity in areas and years with high vole densities. Thus, diversification of forest stands may have very different effects on mammalian browsing depending on the herbivores present, their densities, and the tree species used in reforestation.
3682935|This study considered the dispersal and subsequent reproduction of Apterothrips apteris, a wingless, folivorous thrips species that is divided into local populations, each adapted to its individual host plant. We placed host plants with no thrips into the field and observed the rate at which thrips colonized these plants. Colonization events were rare; on average each pot received 1.47 immigrants during the year. Immature thrips were found associated with 64.5% of these events, indicating that reproduction had occurred. Colonization was most likely to occur during the summer. Most colonists walked onto the new host and airborne movements were very rare. Plants that were located far from near neighbors were less likely to be colonized although the size of nearby source populations did not influence the rate of colonization. These results suggest that limited movement is associated with division of this population into isolated demes. Limited movement appeared to be more important as a barrier to successful colonization than was demographic success following arrival at a new host plant.
3683361|Prey preferences and dietary differences between sex and age categories of Eurasian otters were studied in coastal Norwegian habitats. Relative to their trapping frequency potential prey species with hard, spiny exoskeletons (crabs and sea urchins) or otherwise tough, spiny integuments (Labridae) were much less frequently found in spraints than fish species with soft integuments. Spines did not protect fish with otherwise soft integuments from otter predation. The number of non-fish taxa per otter stomach did not vary significantly between otter age categories despite presumed differences in hunting abilities (small cubs, large cubs and subadults, adults). Relative frequency of occurrence of crabs and sea urchins was < 5% in the stomachs in each of these otter categories. Anadromous, katadromous and freshwater fish species were infrequently eaten. The coastal otter population during the study period probably had access to an adequate, and preferred, supply of marine fish prey. At the otter population level no prey size selection was conclusively demonstrated within the range of fish sizes sampled. However, fish sizes eaten differed significantly between otter sex and age categories. The fish sizes per stomach were on average larger in males than in females, regardless of age. Adult males tended to eat the largest fishes. Among the self provisioning age categories (subadult and adult otters) fish lengths differed significantly between otter males and females, but not between the otter age categories, and did not covary significantly with otter body length. Fish eaten by females with old placental scars (potential mothers of fisheating cubs) were significantly smaller than those eaten by small cubs, provisioned by their mothers.
3682891|The strategy of managing for "natural" patterns towards ecological sustainability of forests is currently limited to simple spatial attributes of landscapes. Yet, there is general agreement that landscapes are highly dynamic entities suggesting that temporal patterns may also be important. This study used historical estimates of 20-yr disturbance rates, and a spatially explicit, stochastic landscape model to create multiple possible landscape mosaic scenes for three different landscapes in the foothills of Alberta. The results were summarized as frequency distributions by age-class, and the distributions compared to the percentage of area in the current, and the pre-commercial landscapes. Results indicated that aside from one age-class in one of the landscapes, both current and pre-commercial age-class distributions were well within the historical ranges suggested by the simulations. More generally, the simulations indicated relatively high, but landscape specific, levels of historical temporal variability. This implies that there are patterns to temporal variability which may be captured, quantified, and emulated as alternatives to single age-class management targets. The research also demonstrates a method of assessing age-class distributions within the context of historical ranges of distributions.
3683023|The boreal mixed-wood forest of northern Alberta, Canada is characterized by a mosaic of deciduous and coniferous forest patches. Recently, the deciduous portion of the forest was allocated for industrial logging. Widespread habitat loss and fragmentation may negatively affect birds and other wildlife. Most research on the effects of habitat loss on bird abundance has focussed on the forest as a patch or island in a matrix of non-habitat, but some species of songbird may use both the forest patch and the matrix. We hypothesized that some species of songbird might be able to compensate for a loss of deciduous forest by moving into other habitat types (termed "habitat compensation"). We report on a replicated field investigation in which we assessed the response of songbirds to commercial timber harvest by first examining their abundance within deciduous forest only, and then adding the clearcuts and coniferous forest in the surrounding areas to the analysis for a broader, landscape view of the system. Bird communities in deciduous and coniferous habitats had significant overlap in species composition; there was less overlap between forest and clearcuts. The shift from patch-centred to landscape sampling altered our interpretation of over half of the most common species' responses to logging in at least one year, suggesting that habitat compensation may have been occurring. However, significant variation in responses of species was observed between the two study areas. Our past reliance on island biogeographic and other single habitat approaches may be inappropriate for this system, and we stress that a broad, landscape view is required to properly assess and interpret species' responses to habitat loss and fragmentation.
20696288|Frugivorous species heavily depend on patchy food resources and are believed to track these in space and time, thereby providing an important seed dispersal function that might be critical toward the regeneration of fruiting plants. However, isolation of suitable food patches due to habitat fragmentation or changes in landscape connectivity may hamper food tracking behaviour and adversely affect populations of both frugivores (through starvation) and food plants (through interruption of seed dispersal). We here test whether density fluctuations in four frugivorous Afrotropical bird species were larger and/or matched fluctuations in ripe fruit densities better in study plots embedded in large tracts of indigenous forest than in equally-sized plots embedded in cultivated lands. We compared these results with those of four non-frugivorous species (out-group) which were not expected to track fruit resources. Whereas densities of both frugivores and fruit crops strongly fluctuated in space and time, these fluctuations were not synchronised, nor did the level of synchrony differ in relation to matrix type. For some but not all bird species, lower densities and smaller temporal fluctuations in forest plots surrounded by cultivation may reflect decreased mobility. The observed fluctuations in bird densities most likely reflect exchange with the surrounding landscape matrix, suggesting that small pockets of fruiting trees in farmland may comprise critical food resources for frugivores inhabiting highly fragmented landscapes, apart from increasing connectivity for both bird and seed dispersal.
30243247|When species' elevational ranges are wider where putative competitors are absent, researchers have concluded that interspecific competition influences elevational distributions. This overlooks the distinction between factors that limit distributions directly and factors that only influence organisms indirectly through covarying regulators or resources. Because elevation affects organisms indirectly, testing whether competition influences elevational ranges relies on the heretofore untested assumption that the relationship between elevation and factors influencing organisms directly is similar across geography. Focusing on Buarremon brush-finches (Aves: Emberizidae), a group in which distributions represent one of the best examples of the potential role of competition limiting elevational ranges, we show that when distributions are compared along axes of climatic variation, some patterns of elevational range variation do appear to be consistent with predictions of the hypothesis that release from competition underlies expanded elevational ranges in allopatry. However, other patterns of expanded elevational ranges in the absence of putative competitors are better explained by hypothesis related to species' autoecology and geographic variation in the environment. This latter finding cautions against using elevation uncritically as a dimension of ecological niches, and suggests that classical examples of interspecific competition may need re-evaluation.
3683695|The influence of dominant tree species, soil conditions and distance from an adjacent ancient oak-hornbeam woodland upon the floristic composition, species richness and spatial distributions of species in a pine wood planted on dry rendzina soil were studied in southern Poland. It was found that, in spite of a 52-yr long succession, the cover and composition of species in the pine wood were significantly different from that in the adjacent ancient woodland. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and stepwise regression analyses showed that the distance to the ancient woodland had a significant influence on species distributions in the recent wood. The numbers of species from the Querco-Fagetea class, vegetatively reproducing species and myrmecochores decreased with this distance, whereas the numbers of tree species in the shrub and field layers and anemochores increased. The light intensity had a positive effect on the numbers of species in the shrub layer, non-woodland species and anemochores. The number of woodland species increased considerably with the cover of quickly decomposing litter and with thickness of the humus layer. The migration rate of many woodland species, calculated on occurrence of the farthest individuals was very slow, varying from
3683439|We used the conceptual framework of the theory of natural selection to study breeding habitat preferences by an opportunistic avian predator, the black kite Milvus migrans. In Europe, black kite populations are mostly found near large networks of aquatic habitats, usually considered optimal for foraging and breeding. We hypothesized that proximity to wetlands could vary among individuals and affect their fitness, and thus be subject to natural selection. We tested the hypothesis first on a population on Lake Lugano (Italian pre-Alps) which has been monitored for nine years, and then on seven other populations, each studied for four-five years, located along a continuum of habitat from large water bodies to scarce aquatic habitat of any kind. In the Lake Lugano population, black kite abundance was negatively related to distance to the lake in all the nine years of study, consistent with long-term natural selection. There was evidence of ongoing directional selection on strategic nest location in three of the years, and evidence of stabilizing selection in two years. In eight of the nine years the trend was for a linear increase in fitness with increasing proximity to the lake. At the population level, results were consistent with adaptive habitat choice in relation to the previous year's spatial variation in fitness: higher associations between fitness and distance to the lake (i.e. higher selection gradients) resulted in higher density variations in the following year, in turn related to the availability of fish, the main local prey. The progressive decline of inland pairs and increase in the density of lakeshore pairs caused a directional long-term trend of declining mean distance to the lake. Breeding near aquatic habitats was associated with higher foraging success, and higher frequency and biomass of prey deliveries to offspring. There was weak evidence of selection in other populations. The inland-wetland gradient of habitat quality may have been affected by predation risk, as estimated by density of a major predator of adults and nestlings, the eagle owl Bubo bubo. Behavioral decisions at the level of the individual probably translated into population effects on density and distribution at various spatial scales. Populations in optimal habitats showed higher density and produced six times as many young per unit space as those in sub-optimal habitats.
3682964| The land mollusc fauna and some abiotic soil variables were investigated at 20 forest sites SW of Vxj, southern Sweden, in 1964-66 and again in 1987-88 to evaluate possible effects of soil acidification, base cation leaching and nitrogen deposition. The number of snail individuals decreased on average by 60% in herb-rich deciduous forests and by 80% in spruce and herb-poor oak forests. Nesovitrea petronella, N. hammonis, Euconulus fulvus, Vertigo substriata, Cochlicopa lubrica and Clausilia bidentata were most affected. The calcium content in litter and surface layer of soil had decreased on average by 31%. The snail number decrease is negatively correlated to base saturation. In the lower range of calcium content the change is in good accordance with a significant regression line of abundance on calcium from 1964-66. The snail abundance is positively correlated to base saturation, to soil moisture and probably also to nitrogen content. The soil chemistry and the snail fauna of the coniferous forest sites are so severely affected that a continued acidification and base cation leaching might lead to extinction of the snail fauna in this kind of forest. Problems, possibilities and use of results from retrospective studies on the soil fauna are discussed. 
30244571|In this study, we explore two mycorrhizal groups during development of riparian soils along a freely-flowing river. We provide the first documentation of a shift in abundance between arbuscular mycorrhizae and ectomycorrhizae during floodplain succession. We used a chronosequence spanning 0-70 yr along a river in northwestern Montana, USA, to test the hypothesis that abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) is greatest in early stages of soil development, and abundance of ectomycorrhizal fungi (ECMF) is greatest later in floodplain succession. We also measured the AMF-mediated process of formation of soil aggregates during site development. AMF colonization of the dominant tree (black cottonwood Populus trichocarpa) remained low (<5%), while AMF colonization of understory species was high (45-90%), across the chronosequence. Mycorrhizal inoculum potential (MIP) and hyphal length of AMF in soil peaked within the first 13 yr of succession and then declined. No single variable significantly correlated with AMF abundance, but AMF tended to decline as litter and soil organic matter increased. Density of ectomycorrhizal root tips in soil increased linearly throughout the chronosequence, and ectomycorrhizal colonization of cottonwood roots increased rapidly in early stages of succession. These patterns suggest that ECMF are not limited by dispersal, but rather influenced by abundance of host plants. Formation of water stable aggregates increased rapidly during the first third of the chronosequence, which was the period of greatest AMF abundance in the soil. The peak in AMF infectivity and hyphal length during early succession suggests that regular flooding and establishment of new sites promotes AMF abundance in this ecosystem. Regulation of rivers that eliminates creation of new sites may reduce contributions of AMF to riparian areas.
30244547|The oil palm Elaeis guineensis is a native of West Africa and is now extensively grown in south-east Asia. In 2005, the crop covered four million ha of Malaysia. We examined the arboreal ant fauna in two oil palm plantations that had been farmed with integrated pest management practices for at least 10 yr. Having cut and examined palm fronds from 595 and 503 palms in Borneo and Peninsular Malaysia respectively, we studied diversity in ant assemblages, analysed composition of ant mosaics by stepwise use of null-models, and explored the influence of exotic vs native species on community structure. Altogether we sampled 52 species of canopy ants, of which 23 species were shared between Borneo and Peninsular Malaysia. Seventeen species in Borneo and 24 species in Peninsular Malaysia accounted for 95% of all species occurrences (SOCs). Fortysix percent of all SOCs belonged to 12 tramp ant species with pan-tropical distributions. Forty percent of all SOCs were exotic ants. Six dominant species were found in Borneo, five in the Peninsula. The three most abundant species, Anoplolepis gracilipes, Oecophylla smaragdina and Technomyrmex albipes were dominant in both sites. Three dominants were invasive species that were found on more palms than the native group. Dominant tramp species coexisted with non-dominants more often and tolerated more species of non-dominant ants than native dominants. Null model analyses indicated that species were arranged in mosaics at both the Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo sites. Dominant species showed much less co-occurrence than expected by chance, pointing towards species segregation (even in presence of introduced, invasive species). Similar results were obtained for all species. Non-dominant ants were either positively associated with their dominants, or co-occurred randomly in the presence of dominant species. In contrast, ant assemblages on palms without dominants showed species segregation.
3682795|We addressed the role of density-dependent (direct and delayed) and density-independent (precipitation) factors in shaping the dynamics of fluctuating populations of three small mammal species. Using a stepwise regression procedure, we tested the effects of nonlagged population density (
3683832|One of the major determinants of species richness is the amount of energy available, often measured as primary productivity. Heterogeneity of environmental variables has also been found to influence species richness. Predicting species distributions across landscapes and identifying areas that have high species richness, or vulnerable groups of species, is useful for land management. Remotely sensed data may help identify such areas, with the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) providing an estimate of primary productivity. We examined the relationship between maximum productivity (NDVI), heterogeneity of productivity, and species richness of birds and butterflies at multiple spatial scales. We also explored relationships between productivity, functional guilds and residency groups of birds, and vagility classes of butterflies. Positive linear relationships between maximum NDVI and number of functional guilds of birds were found at two spatial scales. We also found positive linear relationships between maximum NDVI and species richness of neotropical migrant birds at two scales. Heterogeneity of NDVI, by contrast, was negatively associated with number of functional guilds of birds and species richness of resident birds. Maximum NDVI was associated with species richness of all butterflies and of the most vagile butterflies. No association was found between heterogeneity of NDVI and species richness of butterflies. In the Great Basin, where high greenness and availability of water correspond to areas of high species richness and maximum NDVI, our results suggest that NDVI can provide a reliable basis for stratifying surveys of biodiversity, by highlighting areas of potentially high biodiversity across large areas. Measures of heterogeneity of NDVI appear to be less useful in explaining species richness.
3683727| The microspatial distribution of carabid beetles in a pristine alluvial Quercus-Ulmus forest along the river Elbe (north Germany) was investigated using 152 pitfall traps over a study period of 28 d. Traps were set in an area of only 100  120 m which comprised a wide range of microhabitats due to an extremely heterogeneous microrelief. Composition of the ground beetle assemblage was strongly influenced by microclimatic parameters and vegetation structure within a few metres: specifically soil moisture, light intensity, pH as well as cover of leaf litter and herbs. TWINSPAN analyses indicated a sensitive segregation of carabids into distinct microhabitats on a small scale. PCA and subsequent RDA distinguished two distinct species groups: species of wet deciduous woodland and species of wet open marsh habitats. The fringes of small temporary waters within the alluvial forest were of particular value for nature conservation, providing habitat for a high number of rare species. Although there was a shift in species composition over time and the assemblages reorganised spatially, the main environmental parameters governing the community remained the same as indicated by discriminant analyses, namely soil moisture, leaf litter cover and light intensity. 
30243217|Spatial dynamics in grassland communities are constrained by the belowground spatial distribution of roots and rhizomes. Their dynamics are difficult to measure as underground data collection tends to be destructive and cannot be repeated at the same plot over time. We investigated rhizome dynamics indirectly by examining rhizome spatial structure on long-term grassland study plots where aboveground shoot counts have been recorded using a fine-scale grid over nine years. Number of rhizome apical ends, basal ends and total rhizome length of both live and dead rhizomes were obtained from the data by scanning rhizomes and processing them by GIS vectorization. These rhizome variables were correlated with the above-ground shoot counts in grid cells over varying temporal lags. There was a general decrease in the intensity of correlation between live rhizomes and shoot counts with increasing time lags. Correlation of dead rhizomes increased with increasing time lag, reaching a maximum after several years, and then declined. Species differed strongly in the change of rhizome-shoot counts correlation over varying time lags. These differences were used to infer rhizome growth dynamics, namely rhizome growth rate and lifespan, and rhizome mean decomposition time. The species involved differed in all these traits. Mean rhizome growth rate ranged from 0.2 (Polygonum bistorta) to 3.3 cm yr (Deschampsia flexuosa); mean rhizome lifespan ranged from 5 yr (Anthoxanthum alpinum) to over 8 yr (Nardus stricta) and mean decomposition time from one growing season (Anthoxanthum) to 7 yr (Polygonum). Presence of dead rhizomes below living rhizomes or aboveground shoots was taken as an indication of fine-scale replacements between species. These were highly non-random, with some species pairs replacing significantly more frequently. These differences in rhizome growth parameters underlie different strategies of horizontal growth and dieback between species. These can serve as one of the mechanisms of species replacements and contribute to the finescale coexistence of species.
3683805|Chioglossa lusitanica is a streamside salamander endemic to the northwestern corner of the Iberian Peninsula. In an extensive field survey we found the species to be widely distributed across northwestern Portugal. The distribution data were used to identify macroenvironmental parameters related to the presence of the species in Portugal, and to produce a descriptive distribution model for C. lusitanica. We modelled the species distribution based on five environmental parameters (precipitation, relief, July temperature, number of frost months and hardness of water) selected by logistic regression analysis. The model yielded a high score of correct classification (95%). Excluding parameters unavailable for Spain the model included four parameters (precipitation, relief, July temperature and altitude) and had a 93% correct classification score. Extrapolation of the model to Spain yielded a correct classification of 92% and served as a validation of the modelling technique in an independent area. The models indicate the existence of several potentially suitable areas outside the known distribution of the species, providing clues about the species historical biogeography. The models, through the identification of highly suitable and stable protection regions, may contribute to informed conservation planning.
30243149|The distribution of subtropical forests in South Africa is largely a consequence of climatic change during the Quaternary period. We gathered data for 195 canopy tree species from Afrotemperate, scarp, and coastal forests in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa and assessed patterns in reproductive traits using a comparative phylogenetic approach. The overlap in species composition among the forest types reflected the geographic position and colonisation history of the forests. Despite a high degree of phylogenetic conservatism in reproductive traits, there were differences in their expression among forest types. Afrotemperate forests had a higher incidence of wind pollination, consistent with the steep topography, seasonally dry environment, and limited resource availability in the habitat. Scarp forests had more dry brown fruits with abiotic (explosive and wind) dispersal. Coastal forests had the most species with fleshy fruits, zoochory, and large seeds, all traits that may have facilitated the colonisation or persistence of species in this more recent and dynamic community. Since many suites of traits occur together in diverse phylogenetic lines, they represent adaptive complexes that are influenced by biogeography and environmental conditions. Overall, this study demonstrates that biogeography, environmental factors, and phylogenetic history all influence the distribution of reproductive traits in these forest communities.
30244553|Biogeographic gradients may facilitate divergent evolution between populations of the same species, leading to geographic variation and possibly reproductive isolation. Previous work has shown that New Zealand triplefin species (family Tripterygiidae) have diversified in habitat use, however, knowledge about the consistency of this pattern throughout their geographic range is lacking. Here we examine the spatial habitat associations of 15 New Zealand triplefin species at nine locations on a latitudinal gradient from 3550'S to 4670'S to establish whether distant populations differ in habitat use. Triplefin diversity and density varied between locations, as did habitat variables such as percentage cover of the substratum, onshore-offshore location, microposition, depth and exposure. Canonical discriminant analysis identified specific species-habitat combinations, and when habitat was statistically partialled from location, most species exhibited consistent habitat associations throughout their range. However, the density of a few species at some locations was lower or higher than expected given the habitat availability. This indicates that the habitat variables recorded were not the sole predictors of assemblage structure, and it is likely that factors influencing larval dispersal (e.g. the low salinity layer in Fiordland and geographic isolation of the Three Kings Islands) play an additional role in structuring assemblage composition. Together these results suggest that New Zealand triplefin species show strong and consistent habitat use across potential biogeographical barriers, but this pattern appears to be modified by variation in larval supply and survival. This indicates that species with broad geographic distributions do not necessarily show phenotypic variation between populations.
3683172|We classified the main Iberian river basins based on the presence and absence of freshwater fishes and amphibians. For both taxonomic groups we analysed three data sets: 1) endemic species only, to search for biotic boundaries related to historical events, 2) indigenous species, which include endemic ones, to search for biotic boundaries related to ecological factors, 3) indigenous and well-established introduced species, to assess the influence of man in the current biogeographical patterns of fishes and amphibians. We used both phenetic and cladistic methods, followed by a consensus analysis to provide an overall biogeographical pattern. Based on all fish distributions, the Iberian Peninsula is divided into three biogeographical regions: Cantabrian, Atlantic and Mediterranean. No boundary existed between the Cantabrian and Atlantic regions when only indigenous fish species were considered. This suggests that this boundary has been induced by man, probably through the differential introduction of fish species into reservoirs at one or other side of the boundary. Run-off and the size of the river basins are the environmental factors that distinguished the Atlantic and Mediterranean regions. However, regionalization based only on endemic freshwater fishes showed a latitudinal pattern that agrees with the paleogeographic events of the Upper Oligocene-Lower Miocene period. By contrast, one northern and one southern region were distinguished based on all amphibian distributions and on indigenous amphibians only, which suggests that human activity has not significantly affected the overall biogeographical pattern of amphibians in the Iberian Peninsula. Interannual predictability of precipitation best accounts for this regionalization. Based on endemic amphibians, the Iberian Peninsula is divided into three regions that closely resemble the three separate land areas of the Upper Eocene-Lower Oligocene period. The consensus between the biogeographical regions based on fishes and amphibians yields five pairs of basins. Geological origin of the basins seems to better explain the consensus between the biogeographical patterns of fishes and amphibians, whereas ecological factors probably contribute to the differences between them.
3683383|Arthropod abundance has been hypothesized to be correlated with plant diversity but the results of previous studies have been equivocal. In contrast, plant productivity, vegetation structure, abiotic site conditions, and the physical disturbance of habitats, are factors that interact with plant diversity, and that have been shown to influence arthropod abundance. We studied the combined effect of plant species diversity, productivity and site characteristics on arthropod abundance in 71 managed grasslands in central Germany using multivariate statistics. For each site we determined plant species cover, plant community biomass (productivity), macro- and micronutrients in the soil, and characterized the location of sites with respect to orographic parameters as well as the current and historic management regimes. Arthropods were sampled using a suction sampler and classified a priori into functional groups (FGs). We found that arthropod abundance was not correlated with plant species richness, effective diversity or Camargo's evenness, even when influences of environmental variables were taken into account. In contrast, plant community composition was highly correlated with arthropod abundances. Plant community productivity influenced arthropod abundance but explained only a small proportion of the variance. The abundances of the different arthropod FGs were influenced differentially by agricultural management, soil characteristics, vegetation structure and by interactions between different FGs of arthropods. Herbivores, carnivores and detritivores reacted differently to variation in environmental variables in a manner consistent with their feeding mode. Our results show that in natural grassland systems arthropod abundance is not a simple function of plant species richness, and they emphasize the important role of plant community composition for the abundance patterns of the arthropod assemblages.
3683651|Fragmentation of lowland tropical rain forests has resulted in loss of animal and plant species and isolation of remaining populations that puts them at risk. At Los Tuxtlas, Mexico, lowland rain forests are particularly diverse in the bat fauna they contain and while most of the forests have been fragmented by human activity, many of the fragments still harbor diverse assemblages of bat species. To assess the effectiveness of corridors, among other options, to ameliorate the negative effects of fragmentation, we investigated bat species richness and relative abundance in one 6 km long section of live fences (LF) bordering a dirt road and in three 6 km long sections of residual forest vegetation along the sides of three permanent streams (BS, MS, HS). Netting of bats resulted in the capture of 967 bats. At the LF site we captured 12 bat species, 15 at the BS site, 18 at the MS site and 23 at the HS site. Species richness was associated with average area of forest fragments within a 1000 m band on each side of each corridor (r = 0.97, p = 0.01). Only 28% of the species were common among sites. Frugivorous and insectivorous species accounted for 48% each of bat captures while nectarivores accounted for 3%, sanguinivores for 0.5% and carnivore-frugivores for 0.5%. Edge habitat species such as Pteronotus parnelli and Sturnira lilium accounted for 50% of the captures. Frugivorous species such as Carollia brevicauda, Vampyrodes caraccioli, Dermanura phaeotis, D. toltecus and A. jamaicensis accounted for another 25% of bat captures. Recaptures of bats indicated bat movements from forest fragments to corridors and between corridors, with recapture distances ranging from 200 to 2000 m. Within corridor recaptures separated by several months from the original recapture date indicated individual bat revisitation to these sites. We discuss the value of these corridors to bats as stepping stones in the fragmented landscape.
3683295|Studies of effects of landscape pattern on population dynamics should consider the spatial scale at which habitat connectivity varies relative to the spatial scale of the species' behavioral response. In this paper, I investigate the relationship between the degree of connectivity of wooded patches measured at different spatial scales and the colonization of these patches by nuthatch Sitta europaea populations. I used different threshold distances to calculate the degree of habitat connectivity. A threshold distance is the distance beyond which the probability of successfully bridging the distance by dispersing individuals is assumed to decrease rapidly. The sum of the degree of connectivity over all patches in a region provides a measure for the overall degree of connectivity. Based on this measure, I could first give an indication under what conditions species may experience effects of constrained dispersal in that region. Second, the degree of connectivity of the individual patches was related with the observed colonizations of these patches. The degree of habitat connectivity measured for threshold distances of ca 2.4-3 km best explains the colonization probability of unoccupied patches. These threshold distances give an indication of the distances covered by dispersing nuthatches that led to successful colonizations.
3683708|We experimentally examined spatial and temporal patterns of seed predation on three tree species in an oak-pine forest in southern Maine, USA. Rodents were the principal seed predators. Rates of seed loss varied with tree species and exposure to three different suites of potential seed predators (all vertebrate seed predators, medium-sized rodents [primarily squirrels] and small rodents [primarily mice and voles]). Acer rubrum seeds were removed more slowly (mean of 17.7% within 2 d across all habitats and treatments in 1991) than seeds of either Quercus rubra or Pinus strobus (e.g., > 99% removed within 2 d across all habitats and treatments for each species in 1991). Levels of final removal (cumulative removal at final census) varied with year but not with microhabitat; i.e., seed predation in four types of forest gap was not significantly different than in intact forest. Both field data and experimental feeding trials with captive Peromyscus leucopus and Clethrionomys gapperi suggest that a significant proportion of white pine seeds is eaten at time of detection, while red oak acorns are more likely to be cached. Captive Peromyscus leucopus cached and ate significantly more red oak acorns than Clethrionomys gapperi. These results suggest that red oak mast may be more important in overwintering success in Peromyscus than in Clethrionomys. Nevertheless, both species did consume red oak acorns, suggesting that in southern Maine these species are not substantially inhibited by high tannin levels in red oak acorns, as has been suggested by researchers elsewhere.
30244597|The "mid-domain effect" (MDE) has received much attention as a candidate explanation for patterns in species richness over large geographic areas. Mid-domain models generate a central peak in richness when species ranges are placed randomly within a bounded geographic area (i.e. the domain). Until now, domain limits have been described mostly in one-dimension, usually latitude or elevation, and only occasionally in two-dimensions. Here we test 1-D, 2-D and, for the first time, 3-D mid-domain models and assess the effects of geometric constraints on species richness in North American amphibian, bird, mammal and tree species. Using spatially lagged simultaneous autoregressive models, empirical richness was predicted quite well by the mid-domain predictions and the spatial autoregressive term (45-92% R). However, our results show that empirical species richness peaks do deviate from those of the MDE predictions in 3 dimensions. Variation explained (R) by MDE predictions generally increased with increasing mean range size of the different biotic groups (from amphibian, to tree, mammal and finally bird data), and decreased with increasing dimensions being accounted for in the models. The results suggest geometric constraints alone can explain much of the variation in species richness with elevation, specifically with respect to the larger-range taxa, birds and mammals. Our analysis addresses many of the recent methodological criticisms directed at studies testing the MDE, and our results support the hypothesis that species diversity patterns are influenced by geometric constraints.
30243128|This study analyzed the effects of tree size, and correlated architectural tree characteristics, on the assemblages of ants and insect herbivores associated with Anadenanthera macrocarpa (Mimosaceae). The latter is a myrmecophilous tree species from the Atlantic rainforest in south-eastern Brazil. Ants and insect herbivores were collected in 30 individuals of A. macrocarpa, ranging from young individuals ( >3 m in height) to emergent trees (up to 40 min). Tree height was a strong indicator of other tree characteristics, including trunk diameter, crown height, crown volume, and number of bifurcations. Ants were collected using arboreal pitfall traps and beating, while insect herbivores with beating only. There was a significant increase in both abundance and species richness of ants and insect herbivores with an increase in tree height. In addition, tree height had a significant effect on the species composition of ants and insect herbivores. Assemblages of both taxa showed a nested organization pattern. The species found in small- and medium-sized trees, in general, consisted of a subset of the species found in the crowns and branches of larger, canopy or emergent trees. Thus, in A. macrocarpa, there was not a replacement of insect species with plant ontogeny. This finding is at variance with those conducted in tropical evergreen forests and which show a clear stratification between the understory and canopy insect faunas. Additional studies are needed to explain these contrasting patterns, but it is possible that differences in microclimate are involved. As the forest we studied is semi-deciduous, microclimatic gradients between the understory and the canopy habitat are probably less severe than in an evergreen forest, thus resulting in a lower turnover of species.
30244620|The resource specialization or niche breadth of a species is not fixed across populations, but instead varies over geographical space. A species may be a local specialist but a regional generalist, if it uses locally few resources that are substitutable across locations. In contrast, a species is a local generalist and a regional specialist if it uses locally many resources that cannot be substituted from 1 location to the next. Scale-dependence can thus be a major factor in estimation of niche breadth. Here, we test for relationships between local and global estimates of host specificity (a measure of niche breadth for parasites) in fleas (Siphonaptera) parasitic on small mammals from 49 different regions within the Holarctic. Across all fleas, we found a strong, positive relationship between the number of host species that a flea uses in 1 locality and the number of different host species that can serve as the flea's principal host (i.e. the one supporting the most fleas in a region) among all regions. Also, we observed a strong positive relationship between the taxonomic distinctness of the host species used in 1 locality and that of all known principal hosts among all localities. These relationships held after correcting for potentially confounding phylogenetic influences. We discuss the implications of scale-independent host specificity and its association with geographical range size and species-specific patterns of host use.
3683698|This study summarises European research on seed banks in temperate forest systems and analyses for differences in seed bank composition between geographically scattered forests with a different land use history. Special attention is given to seed bank characteristics of ancient forest species. Results of Detrended Correspondence Analysis suggest that historical land use is a key factor in determining the seed bank composition. Particularly seed banks of forests on former heathland sites differ from seed banks of ancient forest due to high contribution of early successional species. The effect of former land use decreases after 50 yr, due to seed senescence. Total seed density decreases with recent forest age. Seed bank composition of eastern European forests is different from northern or western European forests, a difference which is mainly caused by species with a higher Ellenberg indicator value for continentality, temperature and reaction. In general, ancient forest species are poorly represented. Only a limited number is mentioned to have a persistent seed bank, and their densities are relatively low, which means that restoration of typical ancient forest vegetation can not rely on the seed bank. However, there is still considerable lack of knowledge concerning seed bank and germination characteristics of forest species.
3683405|This paper explores the potential of rule-based habitat models to predict the occurrence of some common species in arable conditions. Models were developed for 10 arable plant species, 7 Hemiptera species, 8 carabid species and for 5 bird species whose ecology was sufficiently known. Rule sets linking species occurrence to environmental variables were produced using available literature and expert knowledge about ecological requirements of the selected species. Environmental variables described the nature and condition of habitats at various scales, ranging from vegetation quadrat to the landscape in a 1 km radius of species sampling sites. The performance of the 34 models developed was assessed in two areas of England. Results show the rule-based habitat models developed for arable plants and birds were not very successful with Cohen's k values often < 0.4 for plants and very close to 0 for all bird species. Conversely, rule-based models performed surprisingly well for carabids and Hemiptera with k values on average > 0.4. This suggests that ecological knowledge on these invertebrate species is more complete than we expected. The effect of species prevalence on model performance and the potential application of knowledge-based habitat models in the context of biodiversity assessment are discussed.
3683001|Galls produced by the cecidomyiid Lasioptera ephedricola on Ephedra trifurca always have a black ring associated with them while galls produced by the congener L. ephedrae never do. Black ring material, after microscopic examination and culture proved to be Aureobasidium pullulans. In addition to lacking black ring material, neither L. ephedrae galls nor healthy stems consistently yielded Aureobasidium on culture. Gall and larva size measurements indicated that continued larval presence is not necessary for gall development, suggesting fungus initiated gall formation. However, inoculation of healthy stems with Aureobasidium caused lesions but not galls. The mycelium in galls did not appear grazed and neither larvae nor pupae contained Aureobasidium propagules suggesting that larvae do not feed directly on fungi. These data also suggest that there is no trans-pupal passage of fungus from larvae or pupae to adults. Newly emerged females do not carry fungal propagules suggesting that they are not inoculated upon exiting the gall. Gall position, leaf culture and stem culture data suggest that the fungus is picked up from leaves prior to oviposition.
3683691| We examined the changes of species-rich herbaceous community canopy structure and species diversity in a five-year field experiment. Above- and below-ground resource addition (fertilization and additional illumination with the help of mirrors) and cessation of annual mowing were applied as experimental treatments in 24 permanent plots of 40  40 cm. Canopy structure was studied by point quadrat sampling using laser beam to randomly position point quadrats at two different angles of observation - 60 and 120 from horizontal, north-south direction. We hypothezised that the studied plant community is not light-limited under the normal conditions (non-fertilized and annually mown) but would become light-limited after nutrient addition and/or cessation of mowing. In this case the effect of fertilization and cessation of mowing could be mitigated by introducing additional light resource (placing south-facing mirrors). Species richness in plots was not significantly altered by experimental treatments, most probably because of a strong input of species from surrounding areas by the means of lateral vegetative spread, compensating for the expected decrease of diversity with fertilization and cessation of mowing. Surprisingly, plant total coverage in a plot was the only variable significantly explaining plot richness, independent of experimental treatments and the year of observation. We therefore studied also species richness per unit coverage (standardized richness) which appeared to be significantly reduced by fertilization. Annual change of plant total coverage of a plot was good predictor of annual change of plot richness, except for the exceptionally dry period (1994-1995). There was no indication of light being limiting for the plants in control plots, but light obviously became limiting after nutrient addition - in fertilized plots additional illumination lead to a notably denser canopy. Generally, the average exposition of plant leaves surface was towards the north, independent of experimental treatments. However, in the exceptionally cloudy and cool year 1996 the situation was radically different - leaves were exposed predominantly towards the south, indicating that multi-species canopy can plastically react to long-term changes in light availability. 
30243159|Both microhabitat and temporal scales have significant effects on the regeneration process of plant species. However, the consistency of those patterns at large scales is largely unknown, despite of being essential from both an ecological and a conservation viewpoint. In this study, we examined the spatio-temporal variation in the process of regeneration through seeds of the relict Mediterranean shrub Buxus balearica. By means of observations and experiments, we quantified the losses at different recruitment phases (seed rain, seed predation, seedling emergence and establishment) both at a small spatial scale (distance and microhabitat effects) and at a temporal scale (four years), and compared them at a regional scale (10 different localities). We additionally studied transition probabilities between phases in two populations and measured the size structure of 18 localities encompassing all the distributional range of the species. The results show that seed shadow follows a leptokurtic pattern which is consistently maintained until the seedling phase (i.e. there is spatial concordance). Despite post-dispersal factors are spatially uncoupled, they do not remove the gradient established in the seed shadow. Although the importance of different seed predators varied between regions, post-dispersal seed predation (ca 80%), together with seedling emergence (usually lower than 10%, some years even nil), and seedling mortality during the first summer (ca 70%) were - consistently in all populations - the most critical bottlenecks in the regeneration of the species. Moreover, an absence of seed bank prevents the buffering of dramatic losses during such phases. Watering of sown seeds increased seedling emergence and survival, and number of leaves per seedling, and survival was consistently higher under vegetation coverage. These results suggest that hydric stress notably contributes to limit the regeneration of this once widespread species evolved under a subtropical climate, which nowadays appears in old-structured populations throughout its distributional area.
3683187|I try to test the prediction that bird-dispersed plants should produce fruits when fruit-eating birds are most abundant by reviewing some phenological data of fleshy fruit production in western Europe. The prediction that fruit ripening dates in populations of the same species should occur later at lower latitudes and elevations, to coincide with the maximum abundance of fruit-eating birds, is not supported by the data. The patterns of seasonal variation in the total number and biomass of fruits, but not in the proportion of species in fruit, in communities at different latitudes and elevations do coincide with patterns of seasonal abundances of avian frugivores. I suggest that this coincidence is due to the greater relative abundance (and contribution to total fruit production) in each locality of species that fruit at times of the year when birds are most abundant. These species may have achieved a demographic advantage by getting more seeds dispersed than species that ripen fruits in other seasons.
3683278|Dispersal of Spanish juniper Juniperus thurifera was examined in a farming landscape of central Spain to study the effects of fragmentation on the dispersal effectiveness of the different dispersers, and the consequences for the plant. The study was conducted in two large forests (LF; 280 and 150 ha) representative of unfragmented conditions, and 18 small isolated fragments (0.1-3 ha) which were classified in two groups: 1) F1, forest remnants with both high juniper cover and cone production (N = 5); and 2) F2, remnants in which fragmentation has caused a heavy reduction in junipers (N = 13). Cone production, disperser abundances and quantity of dispersal by birds (Turdus thrushes) and mammals (carnivores, rabbits and sheep) were estimated throughout two study years. Dispersal by thrushes was measured in three types of trees representing a decreasing attraction focus to birds: Spanish junipers with cones (SJ1), Spanish junipers without cones (SJ2) and holm oaks (HO). Cone production greatly decreased from LF to F1 and F2 in both study years, affecting F2 dramatically. Thrush abundances were similar in LF and F1, but thrushes lacked or were very scarce in F2. Carnivores showed an even distribution throughout the whole area, but herbivores were relatively scarce in F2 fragments, especially rabbits, which were lacking in the fragments under 0.6 ha. Patterns of seed deposition around trees showed decreasing dispersal activity of thrushes from SJ1 (83.1% of the examined trees had seed-packets-thrush pellets) to SJ2 (53.6%) and HO (23.6%). Both distribution patterns and density of pellets were roughly similar in LF and F1, but pellets were only recorded in one (SJ1) out of 159 trees examined in F2, supporting thrushes behaved as specialist feeders and thus avoided the patches devoid of juniper cones. Average densities of pellets in LF reached 397.6 pellets ha
3683229|Studies of grouse conducted at northern latitudes have shown that tetraonids frequently exhibit cyclic fluctuations in abundance but little is known about the dynamics of grouse species at the southerly edge of their range. Hunting statistics from four species of grouse based on 30 yr of data collected from 210 hunting areas were examined from the Dolomitic Alps in the province of Trentino. These data were summed to represent 18 time series from discrete mountain groups. Analyses identified cycles of ca 5 yr in the minority of rock ptarmigan Lagopus mutus and hazel grouse Bonasa bonasia populations. These cycles only showed significant negative autocorrelation at half the cycle period and were classified as phase-forgetting quasi-cycles. Cycles were not found in time series of black grouse Tetrao tetrix or capercaillie Tetrao urogallus. Correcting time series for hunting effort or hunting restrictions tended to increase the proportion of populations that exhibited cycles but no difference in the strength of second order density dependence. A linear first order density-dependent autoregressive model described the dynamics of most of the populations with the exception of a proportion of rock ptarmigan and black grouse populations where a non linear first order model provided the best fit. We compare the findings with studies conducted in Finland and suggest possible reasons for the reduced tendency to cycle in the populations of southern Europe.
3683203|This paper evaluates the role of ecological densities (densities in a given habitat) in predicting the ability of forest passerines to occupy fragments of eight oak Quercus spp. forest archipelagos of the Iberian Plateaux. Ecological density of individual species was the main predictor of their occurrence in fragments, whereas other biological traits (nesting site) and some potentially important landscape features (local cover of forests or distance to possible sources of individuals) were not correlated to fragment occupation. Feeding substrata of birds was also related to their comparative ability to occupy fragments since, after controlling for the effects of abundance and nesting site, foliage exploiters were more frequent in fragments. These results, that support the empirical usefulness of the random sampling hypothesis in predicting the ability of species to persist in fragments, may be affected by some particular features of the study area. Oak forests of the Iberian Peninsula have been heavily affected by human disturbance for a long time so that interior forest birds are now scarce or extinct and species adapted to shrubby forests form the bulk of these bird communities. It is possible that these species will not perceive differences in the habitat suitability of fragments, increasing the likelihood that stochastic sampling processes dictate their patch occupancy.
3682880|We investigated the roles of competition and predation in the structuring of mixed anuran communities (Rana temporaria and Bufo bufo) in an English sand-dune system. Rana temporaria breeds earlier in spring than B. bufo, but the latter species was numerically superior in all ponds at the study site. We measured survival and growth rates of larvae in three duplicate sets of natural ponds. In one set we removed B. bufo spawn, leaving only R. temporaria; in a second set we removed R. temporaria spawn, leaving only B. bufo; and in a third set we left both together. The third set also contained substantial numbers of predatory fish (Perca fluviatilis and Gasterosteus aculeatus). Rana temporaria survival was lower than that of B. bufo in all ponds, on average by sixfold. Rana temporaria fared better on its own than in the mixed-species ponds, but lower survival in the latter ponds was probably due to fish predation rather than to interspecific competition. By contrast, B. bufo survival was sevenfold higher in mixed-species compared with single-species ponds, probably because they are distasteful to fish and thus benefited indirectly from fish-predation of invertebrates. Prototheca richarsi, a mediator of interference competition between anuran larvae under laboratory conditions, was present in some of the dune ponds but was not correlated with larval growth inhibition. Taken together the evidence implicated predation of larvae and intraspecific competition, rather than interspecific competition, as the dominant structuring forces in this community.
20696287|Long-term data are needed to assess spatial and temporal variability of communities and their resilience to natural and anthropogenic disturbances, particularly in climatic regions marked by high interannual variability (e.g. mediterranean-climate). A long-term study at four sites on two streams in mediterranean-climate California (annual sampling over 20 yr) allowed us to quantify the influence of a 5-yr prolonged drought on stream invertebrate and fish communities. Invertebrate community composition did not show recovery following drought. The primary environmental factors influencing community composition, identified through principle components and multiple correspondence analyses were precipitation and flow permanence. Invertebrate taxon richness and abundance exhibited few responses (some site specific) and recovered quickly. Native fish abundance was lowest during the drought period and highest during the wet years that occurred at the end of the study period. Importantly, the prolonged drought facilitated the establishment and success of the invasive green sunfish (Centrarchidae: Lepomis cyanellus) that was then resilient to subsequent large flow events. There was high spatial synchrony in the temporal changes among all four sites, and three distinct periods were identified: early drought, late drought, and post-drought years. However, we still found differences among sites along the flow permanence gradient from temporary to perennial in the response to drought of both invertebrate and fish assemblages likely as a result of changes in substrate, vegetation, and other habitat characteristics. The observed lack of resilience and negative impacts to biodiversity due to prolonged drought associated with long-term habitat changes is important because hydroclimatic extremes are predicted to increase in frequency and magnitude with global climate change.
3683797|In heterogeneous habitats with limited resources, spacing behaviour will affect individual variation in breeding success and density of populations, and is thus of general interest to ecologists. We investigated how red squirrels Sciurus vulgaris adapt their social organisation to fine-grained heterogeneity in habitat quality, studying spacing behaviour, habitat use and population dynamics in a forest in north Italy, characterised by a mosaic of high-quality (chestnut-pine) and poor-quality patches. We compared the data with those from more homogeneous broadleaf and mixed woodlands with similar overall tree seed abundance ("stable" habitats). Squirrels lived at lower densities (pre-breeding density 0.39-
30243270|Many plant and animal species have higher densities at the centre of their distribution, with a gradual decline in abundance towards the edge of the range, though reasons for this pattern is not well known. We examined the abundance of the leaf miner Cameraria sp. nova over the range of its host plant Quercus myrtifolia in Florida and addressed how bottom-up and top-down factors varied over its whole distribution. Leaf miner densities, plant quality and natural enemy effects on mine survivorship were evaluated in 40 sites and spatially structured models were used to determine the effects of spatial location on the abundance of Cameraria and effects of both bottom-up (tannin concentration, foliar nitrogen, soil nitrogen, and leaf area) and top-down factors (larval parasitism and predation) on abundance and survivorship. Cameraria mines were, on average, three times more abundant on edge/coastal sites compared to centre/inland sites and did not support the hypothesis of higher abundance on the centre of the distribution. Differences in plant quality, larval parasitism and successful emergence of mines on edge versus central sites might be partially responsible for this finding. A trend surface equation with latitude and longitude combined explained almost 52% of the variation in Cameraria density and a trend surface map also revealed peaks of Cameraria abundance on the edges of the plant distribution. Correlograms also indicated a significant spatial structure of Cameraria as mines were positively spatially autocorrelated at small distances ( 122 km). Partial regression analyses indicated that 69% of the variation in Cameraria abundance was explained by the effects of latitude, longitude, elevation and percentage of foliar nitrogen. Our results indicated that variation in Cameraria abundance was mostly explained by spatial position and significant effects of bottom-up and topdown factors were not detected in our large-scale study.
3682899|Physical, chemical and biological variables were quantified in 19 subantarctic lakes (South Georgia) as a prelude to comparing these pristine systems with temperate lakes and to improve the knowledge of spatial and temporal variation in water chemistry and abundances of organisms. Lakes close to the sea had higher phosphorus concentrations, contained higher abundances of most organisms, and had higher number of invertebrate species than lakes situated further from the sea. Differences were attributed to higher nutrient input from marine organisms, such as penguins, seals and petrels, and probably also to a somewhat longer ice-free period. Since the lakes of South Georgia lack fish, the pelagic invertebrate fauna is dominated by herbivorous macrozooplankton. Rotifers are rare in the open water and are restricted to the vegetation (mainly mosses) in shallow areas and to the sediment surface. Generally, the algal abundance at the sediment surface is high in subantarctic lakes, indicating that the main part of the primary production is provided by benthic algae, which is in contrast to what is normally the case in temperate waters.
3683460|Ecosystem management and biodiversity conservation are usually implemented using information of several targeted species or cover-types and usually do not include information about communities. This is not because community-level information is unimportant for management purposes, but because the detailed fieldwork required for gathering community-level information at the scale for ecosystem management is usually impractical. We propose two methods to estimate the geographical distribution of plant communities with the objectives of covering large areas with minimal field efforts. The first method estimates the geographical distribution of plant communities by combining clustering methods with vegetation modeling, and the second extrapolates the geographical distribution of gradients in plant communities by combining gradient analysis with vegetation modeling. Vegetation modeling with clustering methods can be used to allocate sites with potentially higher alpha diversity, with the benefit of having a list of species associated with the clustered type. Vegetation modeling with gradient analysis can be used to identify regions with potentially the highest beta diversity by means of selecting regions with the widest range or highest variability in major DCA axes scores, and thereby help to preserve the scope of environmental conditions that lead to diversity in species assemblages. This is especially important because biological entities such as species, communities, or even ecosystems may cease to exist in the long run, and the preservation of processes that lead to biodiversity will eventually become more meaningful. We conclude that new methods to study and manage the processes that contribute to biodiversity at all scales should be and can be developed.
30243215|The variation of passerine species richness in Spain was studied at various spatial scales. Presence-absence data was resampled to construct three species richness maps in lattices of 10 x 10, 30 x 30, and 50 x 50 km UTM cells. The importance of habitat, species-energy, climatic variability, disturbance, history and geometric constraints hypotheses was assessed using geographical data. Stochastic, range-based models were used to simulate neutral colonization events from Europe or from Africa. The importance of small scale processes remained after the inclusion of environmental covariates, indicating a possible role of ecological interactions that was represented in the models by a conditional spatial autoregressive term. Historical effects and energy related measures explained most of the variation in regional species richness. Local and regional habitat structure measures explained the pattern only after large scale trends were considered. The differences when species richness was analyzed at each scale reveal the importance of spatial issues in diversity studies. The possible role of post glacial migration in shaping the observed patterns, and implications for conservation are discussed.
3682818|Explanations of spatial and temporal variation in species richness is a central theme in community ecology. Until recently, most research has focused on small-scale phenomena, often emphasizing on local environmental factors and, thus, poorly reflecting large-scale processes that organize species richness. In this paper, we analyze variations in species richness of indigeneous freshwater fish on a worldwide scale. We show that factors related to species-area and species-energy theories statistically explain most of the variation in freshwater fish species richness across continents. Historical events supposed to influence present distributions of fish are of little assistence in explaining variations in fish species richness at the global scale. Our model, which uses easily measured factors, should also be of practical value to aquatic conservation biology and natural resource management.
3682965| The effects of temperature on the metabolic rate of five species of Hydropsyche larvae belonging either to the rhithron (Hydropsyche dinarica, H. pellucidula and H. siltalai) or to the potamon (H. contubernalis and H. modesta) have been studied. The total amplitude of the metabolic rate between 5 and 25C is higher in the larvae inhabiting the potamon than those of rhithron (particularly in H. siltalai and H. dinarica). The shapes of the metabolism temperature curves (M/T curves) of H. contubernalis and H. modesta differ from each other, although they live in the same habitat and are closely related. A comparison with some species of Gammarus suggests a relationship between metabolic rate and the variability of environmental conditions. 
3683659|The study of the relative roles of local and regional processes in determining the scaling of species diversity is a very active field in current ecology. The importance of species turnover and the species-range-size frequency distributions in determining how local and regional species diversity are linked has been recognised by recent approaches. Here we present a model, based on a system of fully nested sampling quadrats, to analyse species diversity at several scales. Using a recursive procedure that incorporates increasingly smaller scales and a multiplicative formula for relating local and regional diversity, the model allows the simultaneous depiction of alpha, beta and gamma diversity in a single "species-scale plot". Species diversity is defined as the number of ranges that are intersected by sampling quadrats of various sizes. The size, shape and location of individual species ranges determine diversity at any scale, but the average point diversity, measured at hypothetical zero-area localities, is determined solely by the size of individual ranges, regardless of their shape and location. The model predicts that if the species-area relationship is a power function, then beta diversity must be scale invariant if measured at constant scale increments. Applying the model to the mammal fauna of four Mexican regions with contrasting environmental conditions, we found that: 1) the species-range-size frequency distribution at the scale of the Mexican regions differs from the log-normal pattern reported for the national and continental scales. 2) Beta diversity is not scale-invariant within each region, implying that the species-area relationship (SAR) does not follow a power function. 3) There is geographic variation in beta diversity. 4) The scaling of diversity is directly linked to patterns of species turnover rate, and ultimately determined by patterns in the geographic distribution of species. The model shows that regional species diversity and the average distribution range of species are the two basic data necessary to predict patterns in the scaling of species diversity.
3683146|Urbanization - the anthropogenic conversion of natural ecosystems into human-dominated ecosystems - has occurred on global scales. The human-dominated landscape presents particular challenges to researchers because the effects of urbanization on ecological processes are not well understood. We investigated the influence of urbanization on predation by conducting an artificial nest experiment along an urban gradient of six sites ranging from natural to urbanized ecosystems. Previous hypotheses suggest that predation pressures in urban environments will either 1) increase because of the high abundance of exotic species which act as predators or 2) decrease due to the lack of natural predators. To determine relative predation pressures among sites along the urban gradient, we monitored the fates of 16 artificial avian nests at each of the six sites for a total of 96 nests in each year (1996, 1997). We analyzed the dependency of nest fate (depredated or undisturbed) on intensity of urbanization (sites along the urban gradient), nest height (ground, above-ground), and year using loglinear models. The frequency of nest predation was strongly dependent on site along the urban gradient, indicating that urbanization intensity was an important determinant of nest fate. Predation pressure exhibited an overall decline from natural to urban sites in both years, suggesting that urban environments have low predation pressures relative to natural areas. The predatory relaxation in urban environments may partially explain the greater abundance of some species in urban environments, particularly urban exploiters such as european starlings Sturnis vulgaris, house sparrows Passer domesticus, and rock doves Columba livia.
3683394|Constraints on plant distributions resulting from seed limitation (i.e. dispersal filters) were evaluated on two scales of ecological organization on islands off the coast of British Columbia, Canada. First, island plant communities were separated into groups based on fruit morphology, and patterns in species diversity were compared between fruit-type groups. Second, abundance patterns in several common fleshy-fruited, woody angiosperm species were compared to species-specific patterns in seed dispersal by birds. Results from community-level analyses showed evidence for dispersal filters. Dry-fruited species were rare on islands, despite being common on the mainland. Island plant communities were instead dominated by fleshy-fruited species. Patterns in seed dispersal were consistent with differences in diversity, as birds dispersed thousands of fleshy-fruited seeds out to islands, while dry-fruited species showed no evidence of mainland-island dispersal. Results from population-level analyses showed no evidence for dispersal filters. Population sizes of common fleshy-fruited species were unrelated to island isolation, as were rates of seed dispersal. Therefore, island isolation distances were not large enough to impose constraints on species' distributions resulting from seed limitation. Rates of seed dispersal were also unrelated to island area. However, several species increased in abundance with island area, indicating post-dispersal processes also help to shape species distributions. Overall results suggest that seed dispersal processes play an important role in determining the diversity and distribution of plants on islands. At the community-level, dry-fruited species were seed limited and island communities were instead dominated by fleshy-fruited species. At the population-level, common fleshy-fruited species were not seed limited and showed few differences in distribution among islands. Therefore, although evidence for dispersal filters was observed, their effects on plant distributions were scale-dependent.
30244653|The characteristics possessed by invasive species have been suggested to be the reverse of those possessed by species threatened with extinction, such that relationships of species' traits to invasion success should be opposite in sign to relationships of the same traits to extinction threat. A recent study (Jeschke, J. M. and Strayer, D. L. 2008. Are threat status and invasion success two sides of the same coin? - Ecography 31: 124-130) found no evidence for this "two-sides-of-the-same-coin" hypothesis but compared characteristics of species in each taxon that were invasive to a control group consisting of all other species. A different view of the "two-sides-of-the-same-coin" hypothesis may be obtained if the characters of invasive species are compared to those of a control group consisting of species that have not invaded despite actually being introduced. Here, we show that changing the control group for comparison with invasive species does not change the lack of support for the "two-sides-of-the-same-coin" hypothesis but does change views about which specific traits are consistent with the hypothesis.
3683147|The peninsula effect, a decrease in species diversity from the base to the tip of peninsulas, has been proposed to explain the relatively poor species diversity of mammals on North American peninsulas. Subsequent work has questioned both the existence of peninsular declines in diversity, as well as the proposed cause (immigration-extinction dynamics). Previous studies of the Baja California avifauna have shown a gradual decrease in the diversity of breeding birds from the base to the tip of the peninsula. Using newly published data on the breeding land birds, I found a decrease only from the base to the middle of the peninsula, with a slight increase in diversity from the middle to the tip. This result is similar to that for other highly vagile taxa (e.g., Chiroptera, Lepidoptera) and is largely due to the concave diversity gradient of montane species along the peninsula. Habitat associations of the Baja avifauna and the location of potential source populations suggest that: 1) local habitat heterogeneity is likely the single most important factor influencing the avian diversity gradient along the peninsula; and 2) limited immigration of Neotropical species from mainland areas, and of Nearctic species from the base of the peninsula to the montane southern tip is partly responsible for the form of the diversity gradient along the southern half of the peninsula. My results, along with those from previous studies, suggest that rather than colonization/extinction dynamics, habitat heterogeneity and the vagility of the taxa considered have the greatest impact on the observed patterns of species diversity along peninsulas.
3682959| Development times of Diamesa incallida and its numbers of generations per year were studied using in situ rearings in conjunction with continuous collection of egg masses from the field. The evidence suggested that the crenophilous D. incallida laid eggs throughout the year and produced eight to ten generations per year, depending on water temperature (7.6C to 8.0C). This is the first proof for a multivoltine Diamesinae as well as for continuous egg laying behaviour by a non-tropical chironomid. The comparatively large mature larvae (9.6 mm, 710 g a.f.d. weight) and the numerous generations per year indicate that D. incallida is a highly productive component of crenal communities. The importance of rearing chironomids over a sufficient number of generations is emphasized as a basis for the reliable interpretation of field data. 
3682907|Spiders were sampled from spruce branches during late winter in northern Sweden, to investigate the effects of forestry on the community structure of arboreal spiders. Five lichen-rich, natural spruce Picea abies forests and adjacent mature, selectively-logged lichen-poor forests were selected as sample sites. Lichen-rich forests had over three times more spiders on the branches than the lichen-poor forests. The spider community was dominated by web spinners, i.e. the families Linyphiidae, Araneidae, Tetragnathidae and Theridiidae. Hunters, i.e. Philodromidae and Clubionidae, comprised <3% of the individuals and >82% of all spiders were juveniles. Among the dominant species, only the orb-weaver Araneus nordmanni was found in all sites whereas the sheet-web spider Lepthyphantes suffusus was found in all five lichen-rich forests but only in two of the lichen-poor. Both species composition and dominance differed from spider communities in southern boreal spruce canopies. Small prey items, severe abiotic conditions and high predation pressure from birds are possible reasons why web spiders domanate the arboreal community in northern Sweden. These factors could also explain the observed shift in dominance from sheet-web spiders with large body size to those with a small body size, compared with arboreal spider communities in southern boreal forests. Diversity indices (jack-knifing of Simpson index and Q statistic) showed a higher diversity of spiders in lichen-rich than in lichen-poor forests. The lichen-rich forest had more species and less dominance, in both rank abundance and the Berger-Parker index of dominance. However, rarefaction plots indicated no differences besides lower abundance of spiders on sampled branches in lichen-poor forests. It is suggested, that habitat structure (branch size and epiphytic lichen abundance) could be an explanation for the greater number of spiders in old, lichen-rich spruce forests.
3683779|Habitat loss is commonly identified as a major threat to the loss of global biodiversity. In this study, we expand on our previous work by addressing the question of how lepidopteran species richness and composition vary among remnants of North American eastern deciduous forest located within agricultural or pastoral landscapes. Specifically, we tested the relative roles of habitat quantity (measured as stand area and percent forest in the greater landscape) and habitat quality (measured as tree species diversity) as determinants of moth species richness. We sampled > 19 000 individuals comprising 493 moth species from 21 forest sites in two forested ecoregions. In the unglaciated Western Allegheny Plateau, the species richness of moths with woody host plants diminished as forest stand size and percent forest in the landscape decreased, but the total species richness and abundance of moths were unaffected by stand size, percent forest in the landscape, or tree species diversity. In contrast, the overall species richness and abundance of moths in the glaciated North Central Tillplain were affected primarily by tree species diversity and secondarily by forest size. Higher tree species diversity may reduce species loss from smaller forest stands, suggesting that small, diverse forests can support comparable numbers of species to those in less diverse, large stands. Smaller forests, however, contained a disproportionate number of moth species that possess larvae known to feed on herbaceous vegetation. Thus, although woody plant feeding moths are lost from forests with changes in stand area, new species appear capable of recolonizing smaller fragments from the surrounding habitat matrix. Our study further suggests that when species replacement occurs, local patch size and habitat quality may be more important than landscape context in determining the community structure of forest Lepidoptera.
3682783|This paper presents data on aspects of the reproductive ecology of a population of Podarcis bocagei in northwestern Spain, as monitored over a two-year period (1990-1991). Data were obtained principally on the basis of mark-recapture experiments, but also from laboratory hatching studies. Mating took place between the end of March and July. During the laying period, from May to July, 8.5% of reproductive females produced three clutches, 52.1% two clutches and 39.4% one clutch. In general, single clutches were produced by small females. Only a small proportion of large females produced three clutches. Mean clutch size was 4.8 eggs (range 4-7) in May, 4.3 (2-6) in June and 3.9 (2-4) in July. There was significant variation in the mean snout-to-vent length (SVL) of females laying in each month of the season. Both clutch size and mean single-egg volume increased with mother's SVL. There was a significant partial correlation between egg volume and clutch size when both mother's SVL and month of laying were held constant. There was no significant between-year variation in clutch size, breeding females' SVL, egg weight or relative clutch mass. A delay in the timing of reproductive events in one year (1991) is attributable to adverse weather conditions during early spring. Hatching occurred between July and September. Hatch success (as estimated in 1989, 1990 and 1991 from natural nests at the study site) was high, ranging from 83% in 1991 to 91% in 1989. The mean SVL of female hatchlings was greater than that of male hatchlings. By contrast, adult females had lower mean SVL than adult males.
3683554|In this study we assessed whether individuals of the damselfly species Ischnura elegans and Coenagrion puella that moved between ponds differed in their mean characteristics from individuals that did not move. Overall, the sex (female) and species (C. puella) that spent the most time away from the breeding site was more likely to move between ponds. Ischnura elegans males that dispersed had significantly longer forewings than males that did not, while male C. puella parasitised by water mites were more likely to disperse than unparasitised males. There was no evidence for differences in dispersal rates among the female colour forms of either I. elegans or C. puella. In general, the differences in dispersal characteristics between sexes and species could be explained by underlying variation in activity and mobility. The majority of dispersal between breeding sites by C. puella and I. elegans did not appear to be directed, but probably arose from chance movements occasionally taking individuals to a different pond from which they emerged.
3682993|Differences in body size between both species and sex were observed to be close to Hutchinsonian ratios in an assemblage of three species of newts (Triturus italicus, T. alpestris and T. carnifex) in southern Italy. According to feeding, differences in body size were not related with a strict food niche segregation. The diet of larger newt included indeed all the prey eaten by smaller newts but showed new prey types. Differences between species were more marked than between sexes of the same species, despite a strong sexual dimorphism in body size. Larger newts foraged in a wider range of microhabitats and exhibited a greater diversity of foraging tactics. Triturus italicus fed essentially on plankton and chironomids in shallow water at the banks of the pond. Triturus alpestris foraged also in deeper water, particularly on isopods in vegetation. Prey fallen on the water surface constituted the main part of T. carnifex diet. According to recent data on newt evolution, speciation consisted in the reduction of body size. Our data show that this process has been related with a specialization of the diet and of habitat use.
30243168|The analysis of co-occurrence matrices is a common practice to evaluate community structure. The observed data are compared with a "null model", a randomised co-occurrence matrix derived from the observation by using a statistic, e.g. the C-score, sensitive to the pattern investigated. The most frequently used algorithm, "sequential swap", has been criticised for not sampling with equal frequencies thereby calling into question the results of earlier analysis. The bias of the "sequential swap" algorithm when used with the C-score was assessed by analysing 291 published presence-absence matrices. In 152 cases, the true p-value differed by > 5% from the p-value generated by an uncorrected "sequential swap". However, the absolute value of the difference was rather small. Out of the 291 matrices, there were only 5 cases in which an incorrect statistical decision would have been reached by using the uncorrected p-value (3 at the p <0.05 and 2 at the p <0.01 level), and in all 5 of these cases, the true p-value was close to the significance level. Our results confirm analytical studies of Miklos and Podani which show that the uncorrected swap gives slightly conservative results in tests for competitive segregation. However, the bias is very small and should not distort the ecological interpretation. We also estimated the number of iterations needed for the "sequential swap" to generate accurate p-values. While most authors do not exceed a number of 10 iterations, the suggested minimum number of swaps for 29 out of the 291 tested matrices is greater than 10. We recommend to use 30 000 "sequential swaps" if the required sample size is not assessed otherwise.
20696280|Identifying determinants of spatial diversity gradients is in the focus of biodiversity-related research and has gained considerable importance regarding global change and conservation strategies. Despite their overwhelming diversity and the crucial role of invertebrates in ecosystem functioning, our understanding of factors driving broad-scale invertebrate diversity is limited. Tackling this issue, our study analyzes macroecological patterns of a highly diverse insect taxon across large parts of the western Palaearctic. We used regression modelling to assess the influence of environmental factors on overall, widespread and restricted-range (endemic) carabid beetle diversity. Single-term regressions and variation partitioning among climatic, topographic and spatial variables showed that total carabid diversity as well as richness patterns of widespread species were most strongly correlated with spatially structured variables related to current climate (measures of ambient energy and, to a lesser degree, precipitation and AET). In contrast, restricted-range (endemic) species were most notably related to range in elevation. We discuss the possible role of this factor as a surrogate measure of historical processes and the impact of history on contemporary diversity distributions. Our results indicate that while overall diversity patterns of carabids strongly reflect current climate conditions, this primarily reflects the more widespread species, whereas the spatial distribution of restricted-range species is still significantly affected by historical processes. Thus, for a general understanding of determinants and mechanisms of broad-scale diversity, taking into account dispersal abilities and range sizes of species is essential, especially as large parts of global biodiversity are represented by invertebrates with low dispersal powers.
3683024|The dwarf shrub Indigofera spinosa, indigenous to arid and semi-arid rangelands of northeastern Africa, is an important food source for livestock. Proper management of the shrub requires improved understanding of the effects of grazing and climatic variability on aboveground dry-matter allocation. Between 1986 and 1990, we compared the temporal variability of aboveground dry-matter allocation to different plant biomass compartments. We also compared dry-matter transfers between components; total live biomass to litter, standing dead to litter and live biomass to standing dead between continuously grazed and an ungrazed treatments. Partitioning of combined total dry-matter production among different structural organs (called allocation ratio) is influenced by phenological changes, episodic rainfall and herbivory. Dry-matter production in the grazed treatment responded more markedly to episodic rainfall events more than in the ungrazed treatment. Exclusion of grazers failed to improve the relative growth rate (RGR) of shrub biomass, while grazing improved it. RGR declined in the ungrazed treatment following the accumulation of standing dead dry-matter, while in the grazed treatment it declined following the shedding of leaves. The shrub allocated more to total live biomass than to standing dead. Greater reduction of total live allocation ratio in the grazed than in the ungrazed treatment occurred during a dry year. The ungrazed treatment had higher standing dead allocation ratio than did the grazed treatment. Plants transferred more dry-matter from total live biomass compartment to litter, than from standing dead to litter or from total live biomass to standing dead independent of treatment. The rates of transfer were higher in the ungrazed than in the grazed treatment. The results suggest that I. spinosa has evolved to respond to climatic variability and grazing by allocating dry-matter differently between various compartments.
3682825|We tested the hypothesis that diversity and productivity of herbaceous plant communities in disturbed soil are related to the physical and biological heterogeneity of the landscape. Our study was carried out on vegetation responses in porcupine diggings on a rocky slope in the central Negev desert in Israel. We measured aboveground biomass and plant density per species in 150 porcupine diggings (15 cm deep and 15 to 20 cm wide) and in equally sized adjacent control samples in the undisturbed soil matrix. We calculated mean annual biomass production, plant density and species richness for 10 sample areas along the slope. In addition, we divided the plants into groups according to propagule size and dispersal mode. We denoted two types of landscape heterogeneity, which we called physical and biological patchiness. Physical patchiness was measured as the ratio of bare rock to soil surface. Biological patchiness was the area of the soil covered by shrubs with associated soil mound and understory relative to the total soil surface. We also measured disturbance density, as the long term (17 yr) average density of newly made porcupine diggings. We found that 1) the physical patchiness explained 30% of the variation of biological patchiness along the slope, while 2) the patterns of disturbance intensity and biological patchiness were similar (
3683526|The rarity of species in a country is usually determined by counting the number of grid cells occupied by those species on a geographical observation grid. In this paper, we present a measure of rarity that is less sensitive to the shape and size of a country. We demonstrate that the distribution of species on a national grid is not monofractal. Consequently, rarity figures cannot be scaled down to a finer grid merely using scale-area plots. We propose a downscaling method that takes into account the non-monofractal distribution of species. Rarity figures have often been published on a scale comprising a limited number of rarity classes. This article finally provides an insight into the degree of accuracy of such classes.
3683636| By simple and multiple regression analyses we investigate updated species numbers of endemic and native vascular plants and seed plants in the Galpagos Archipelago in relation to geographical parameters. We find that the best models to describe species numbers are regression models with log-transformed species numbers as dependent and log-transformed modified area (i.e. area not covered with barren lava) as an independent variable. This holds both for total species number, for native species number, for endemic species number and for total number of seed plants as well as number of endemic seed plants. For the ratio between endemic and native species, modified area is also the major significant variable, but with a negative regression slope. Multiple regression models show that some isolation measures are significant contributors and may explain some of the residual variation, but their contribution to total explained variation is in general small. The results show that the species area relationships are different for native and endemic species. This is discussed in relation to classical island biogeographical models, and the concepts of radiative speciation. 
3683013|Vegetation data from 95 sites and chemical and textural data for parent materials from 98 sites in subarctic northwestern Canada were analyzed by ordination, classification, and statistical techniques. A discontinuity in plant species occurrence, vegetation communities, and parent materials takes place near the southeast/northwest boundary north of Great Slave Lake. Till parent materials in the forest-tundra show regional differences in nutrient concentration and texture that correlate with the local bedrock. Northwestern tills, as a group, are markedly richer in nutrients and finer-textured than Shield tills, with much higher levels of cation exchange capacity, nitrogen, potassium, calcium, magnesium, hydrogen, and organic carbon, and more silt and clay than Shield tills. Plant species occurrence and vegetation community composition show strong relationships with soil pH, moisture, texture, and latitude. The northwest is characterized by calciphilic white spruce, Dryas, legume, and bryophyte communities, and high species diversity, on basic loamy Cryosols. The southeast is characterized by acidophiles and widespread generalist black spruce, ericad, and lichen communities, and low species diversity, on acidic loamy sand and sandy loam Brunisols.
3683798|We studied the effect of road edges on foraging activity by introduced ship or roof rats Rattus rattus in road-fragmented laurel and pine forests on Tenerife (Canary Islands). By using selective baited stations enabling only foraging by rats we assessed bait removal rates along a road-interior gradient and different topographic locations. We recorded higher removal rates in the laurel than in the pine forest regardless of the distance to road. We detected an edge effect of paved roads on introduced rat foraging. Removal rates were significantly greater along road edges than in forest interior in the laurel forest but not in the pine forest. Rats were more active along road habitats in forest ridges and slopes than in ravine beds in the laurel forest. There was no difference between topographic locations in rat activity at any distance from the road in the pine forest. It is suggested that variation in foraging intensity by introduced rats in road-fragmented forests on these islands may depend, among other factors, on forest type, road edge effects and topographic pattern of the landscape.
3683071|During a Swedish-Russian expedition to northern Siberia 1994, we sampled two marginal populations of two Carex species at two high arctic sites (C. stans Drej. on Faddeyevsky Island and C. ensifolia V. Krecz ssp. arctisibirica Jurtz. at north-eastern Taymyr Peninsula), both north of previously documented localities in that areas for the two species. These populations were composed of a few distinct patches of ramet colonies, some of them shaped like fairy rings with dead centres. We measured the size of all colonies and collected samples for detailed morphometric analyses of rhizome growth. By using RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) analysis we established that the largest colony at each site consisted of a single genet, based on 41 polymorphic bands amplified with three primers. Pooled samples from each of two additional colonies of C. stans on Faddeyevsky Island were analysed and showed that clones of the same species at the same site were relatively dissimilar (Dice's similarity index 0.26-0.43). We then assumed that each ramet colony represented a single genet. Based on the morphometric data, we developed a deterministic growth model that simulates the clonal growth of these species and enabled estimates of the time since establishment of the genets. The estimated age of the five C. stans clones varied from 17 to 154 yr and the age of the two C. ensifolia ssp. arctisibirica clones was well over 3000 yr.
3682921|The richness of Norwegian mountain plants in 75 grid squares is mapped from published distributional data for 109 species. Eleven explanatory variables representing bedrock geology, geography and topography, climate, and history (relative abundance of unglaciated areas) for each square are used in multiple regression analysis with associated Monte Carlo permutation tests to find statistically significant predictor variables for species richness. The variance in richness explained by the four major groups of explanatory variables is established by (partial) multiple regression analysis in which the groups of predictors are entered in different orders. The variance in species richness explained by the predictor variables is partitioned into four independent components. A predictive model for species richness using partial least squares regression and all explanatory variables has a coefficient of determination ( R
3683826|The species richness distribution of the French Aphodiidae was predicted using Generalized Linear Models to relate the number of species to spatial, topographic and climate variables. The entire French territory was studied, divided into 301 0.72  0.36 degree grid squares; the model was developed using 66 grid squares previously identified as well sampled. After eliminating nine outliers, the final model accounted for 74.8% of total deviance with a mean Jackknife predictive error of 10.5%. Three richest areas could be distinguised: the western head (Brittany), southwestern France, and, to a lesser extent, the northeastern region. Sampling effort should now be focused on the western head, where no square was correctly sampled, and on southwestern France, which was recognised as a diversity hotspot, both for Aphodiidae and for Scarabaeidae. The largest fraction of variability (37%) in the number of species was accounted for by the combined effect of the three groups of explanatory variables. After controlling for the effect of significant climate and topographic variables, spatial variables still explain 27% of variation in species richness, suggesting the existence of a spatial pattern in the distribution of species richness (greater diversity in western France) that can not be explained by the environmental variables considered here. We hypothesize that this longitudinal spatial pattern is due to the relevance of a western colonization pathway along the glacial-interglacial cycles, as well as by the barrier effect played by the Alps.
30243271|Predicting broad-scale patterns of biodiversity is challenging, particularly in ecosystems where traditional methods of quantifying habitat structure fail to capture subtle but potentially important variation within habitat types. With the unprecedented rate at which global biodiversity is declining, there is a strong need for improvement in methods for discerning broad-scale differences in habitat quality. Here, we test the importance of habitat structure (i.e. fine-scale spatial variability in plant growth forms) and plant productivity (i.e. amount of green biomass) for predicting avian biodiversity. We used image texture (i.e. a surrogate for habitat structure) and vegetation indices (i.e. surrogates for plant productivity) derived from Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) data for predicting bird species richness patterns in the northern Chihuahuan Desert of New Mexico. Bird species richness was summarized for forty-two 108 ha plots in the McGregor Range of Fort Bliss Military Reserve between 1996 and 1998. Six Landsat TM bands and the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) were used to calculate first-order and second-order image texture measures. The relationship between bird species richness versus image texture and productivity (mean NDVI) was assessed using Bayesian model averaging. The predictive ability of the models was evaluated using leave-one-out cross-validation. Texture of NDVI predicted bird species richness better than texture of individual Landsat TM bands and accounted for up to 82.3% of the variability in species richness. Combining habitat structure and productivity measures accounted for up to 87.4% of the variability in bird species richness. Our results highlight that texture measures from Landsat TM imagery were useful for predicting patterns of bird species richness in semi-arid ecosystems and that image texture is a promising tool when assessing broad-scale patterns of biodiversity using remotely sensed data.
3682946|The relative palatabilities of nine plant taxa used as winter food by reindeer were estimated by presenting them in cafeteria and pairwise tests. Feeding preference indices were then related to the chemical composition of the plants. High preference indices were obtained for the lichens Bryoria spp., Cladina arbuscula, C. rangiferina and C. stellaris, while low values were obtained for the moss Pleurozium schreberi and the dwarf shrubs Empetrum hermaphroditum and Vaccinium myrtillus. The grass Deschampsia flexuosa and the lichen Stereocaulon paschale received intermediate scores. Feeding preferences showed a strong negative correlation with acid detergent fiber (ADF)-values. No statistically significant correlations were found between feeding preferences and contents of nitrogen, in vitro organic matter digestibility (IVOMD) or neutral detergent fiber (NDF).
30244675|ConsNet is a comprehensive software package for the design of conservation area networks (CANs). The software selects areas to be potentially placed under conservation management for the representation of biodiversity surrogates. Additionally, ConsNet optimizes spatial criteria including compactness, connectivity, replication, and alignment, as well as socio-economic criteria as specified by users. ConsNet uses an advanced tabu search engine to identify efficient alternatives quickly, offering capabilities beyond existing planning software. The ability to perform ongoing interactive analysis with multi-criteria objectives makes ConsNet an ideal decision support tool for large scale planning exercises.
30244640|The upper Tombigbee River in northeastern Mississippi now exists as a fragment, confluencing with and fed by an extensively modified aquatic landscape now called the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway (TTW). We examined the changes to fish assemblages and flow regime after waterway construction based on contemporary comparisons to historical fish collections and discharge data. The river's flow regime has changed markedly since TTW construction. Analysis of discharge data from two stations for 15 years, pre- and post-waterway, indicated significant differences in flow regime including increased minimum and base flows, lower spring and higher late summer-autumn flows, and lower high flow durations, post-TTW. These changes corresponded to significantly reduced regional and local species richness, and strong shifts in fish assemblage structure across a 20 yr time span. Post-waterway fish assemblages were related strongly to measured environmental variables characterizing local habitats. Several lentic-adapted species increased their abundances in lower reaches of the river, including a recent invader to the TTW system, the Mississippi silverside Menidia audens. Fragmentation of river ecosystems via disruption to hydrologic regimes is a major threat to aquatic biodiversity worldwide. Because the flow regime of this fragmented river is in part controlled by waterway operations via five minimum flow control structures, adaptive conservation and management efforts could be implemented in order to maintain and potentially restore the natural flow regime and the ecological integrity of the system.
3683259|Tree regeneration has traditionally been used as a measure of the response of treeline to climate. Changes in growth form of krummholz trees may also indicate whether treeline is responding to changes in climate. The purpose of this study was to determine whether krummholz trees in the forest-tundra ecotone of Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado have experienced significant vertical stem growth, in the absence of mortality, and if this growth occurred in response to recent changes in climate. We sampled and dated Engelmann spruce and subalpine fir krummholz leaders stratified by height class at three sampling locations to determine the dates leaders initiated growth above mean snow depth. At one sampling location, 215 additional leaders were sampled to construct an age structure of leader release dates. Dates of leader release taken from the age structure were compared with seasonal temperatures, seasonal precipitation, winter snow depths, and annual runoff using t-tests. Dates of leader release were also compared to proxy climate records for the southern Rocky Mountain region. Based on historical photos as well as the data presented here, both spruce and fir krummholz trees experienced significant height growth as early as the 1850's and continued to grow vertically, at least through the 1970's. This vertical stem growth occurred in the absence of significant mortality. Running mean annual temperature and May snow depth are both positively associated with years of leader release, suggesting that a warmer, wetter climate, possibly following the end of the Little Ice Age ca 1850, may have induced these changes in the ecotone.
3683129|This radio-tracking study reports the spring home range, spatial organisation and activity of 11 stoats Mustela erminea in a New Zealand Nothofagus forest, 1.5 yr after significant seefall when rodent density was low, but stoat density was high. The average home range of 4 male stoats was 223 (SE = 45) ha, significantly larger than the average range area of 94 (SE = 13) ha recorded for 7 female stoats. Stoats were generally tolerant of sharing space and did not maintain intra- or intersexual territorial spacing systems. There was no evidence of temporal avoidance with several stoats of the same sex showing slight attraction to one another. However, stoats still may avoid one another when in close proximity. Long-term radio-tracking studies are required to determine the general patterns of spacing behaviour in stoats. Male stoats showed higher levels of activity during daylight than females.
30244602|Stable isotope analyses of tissues have been used to help delineate natal regions and routes of migratory animals. The foundations of such studies are isotopic gradients or differences representing geographic regions and habitat used by the organism that are retained in selected tissues. We sampled peacock butterflies Inachis io on a regional level in southern Sweden to study natural variation and the resolving power of the stable isotope method to delineate individuals from known areas on a smaller scale than has typically been used in previous studies. Hydrogen (D), carbon $(\delta^{13}C)$ and nitrogen $(\delta^{15}N)$ isotopes were obtained from butterflies at seven different locations in an area of 250 x 250 km over three years (2002-2004). We found sufficient isotopic differences on this regional scale to delineate approximate origins. Of the three isotopes, deuterium showed good discrimination between sites, carbon isotopes showed weaker differentiation, whereas nitrogen isotopes proved unsuitable for small scale studies in this region due to high and unpredictable variation. We found there was enough variation in D between years to prevent a general application of the technique to resolve sub-regional variation. Substantial part of this variation was probably caused by seasonal changes in D of precipitation. These differences produce significant variation in D between years in animals having short and variable tissue development times, and are difficult to estimate in natural situations. We conclude that stable isotopes are potentially powerful predictors for studies of migratory butterflies in Europe. However, without good knowledge about the sampled individuals' previous life-history, a lot of the natural environmental variation in tissue D cannot be controlled for. In the case of migratory species, this information is difficult to obtain, making the confidence intervals for prediction of natal areas fairly wide and probably only suitable for longer distance migration.
3683530| We studied the matrilinear genetic structure of the Siberian tit Parus cinctus by sequencing 911 bp of the mitochondrial control region of 56 birds from Fennoscandia and 3 from Yakutia, central Siberia, representing subspecies P. c. lapponicus and P. c. cinctus, respectively. One major haplotype comprised 35.7% of all birds and was present in all Fennoscandian populations. Sequence variation of 5 museum specimens from Norway fitted with the pattern of the present-day birds. The nucleotide diversity was 0.00205  0.00025 in the Fennoscandian population and no population structuring was detected. The star-like phylogeny suggests a recent expansion of the population size in the evolutionary time scale. A modern decline of the population size from 200 000 pairs to 50 000 pairs in Finland has resulted from cutting and fragmentation of old-growth forests, but the effects of this could not yet be detected in the mtDNA pattern. However, the nucleotide diversity differed among populations being the highest at Kuusamo, close to the Russian border. Conceivably, the gene flow maintained by the substantial migration of Siberian tits is sufficient to prevent differentiation of local populations in Fennoscandia. Presumably the large conservation areas in NE Finland and on the Russian side of the border contribute to the high genetic variation observed in the Kuusamo population. Comparison of the mtDNA phylogeny of the Siberian tit with the phylogenies of the great tit, the blue tit and the willow tit showed that the Siberian tit and some other non-migratory species of the foliage gleaning guild share similar post glacial histories in the western palaearctic. 
3683074|The relative contribution of density-dependent and density-independent factors on variation in the population growth rate of an introduced population Svalbard reindeer was studied by time series analysis. No significant effects of either direct or delayed density-dependence were found. Annual variation in population growth rate was strongly negatively related to amount of precipitation during winter (i.e. high growth rates occurred when winters were dry). There was no significant relationship between the NAO-index and the population growth rate. However, there was an interaction between population density and the climatic variables, i.e. the effect of climate was stronger at high densities. These results support the view that population fluctuations of arctic ungulates are strongly influenced by stochastic variation in climate.
3683407|We correlated percentage of occurrence (local occupancy) of 1069 plant species and 155 bird species across 16 non-reclaimed mining sites in a brown coal district of eastern Germany to regional range size and life history traits. To control for possible confounding effects of phylogeny we used a cross-species as well as a phylogenetically controlled approach. Although life history traits showed significant correlations to local occupancy in univariate analyses, hierarchical partitioning suggested that these variables were only of minor importance to explain local occupancy across non-reclaimed mining sites. The most robust and consistent relationship, however, was found between local occupancy and regional range size. A greater proportion of bird species than plant species from the available species pool colonized the mining sites, possibly due to the active search for suitable habitats by birds. Thus, although the two groups have different ways of colonizing a habitat, the general importance of regional distribution is the same. Overall, the results of our study underline the importance of regional patterns to understand local community composition.
3683333| The vegetation within an ombrotrophic mire expanse in SE Norway is studied in detail. Presence/absence of species and depth to the water table are recorded for 6 976 plots (4  4 cm). The cumulative probability distributions along the water-table gradient are calculated for 24 species, and inter-transect variability tested. Shifts in realised depth to the water table (niche shifts) are frequent for most species. It is concluded that interactions are of minor importance for species in the field layer. The Sphagnum spp. possess some attributes indicating equilibrium, while others indicate ongoing competition. The patchy distribution of hepatics and lichens depend on chance and successional stage, and coexistence within these guilds depend on creation of new naked peat patches. 
30244647|Accurate predictions of future shifts in species diversity in response to global change are critical if useful conservation strategies are to be developed. The most widely used prediction method is to model individual species niches from point observations and project these models forward using future climate scenarios. The resulting changes in individual ranges are then summed to predict diversity changes; multiple models can be combined to produce ensemble forecasts. Predictions based on environment-richness regressions are rarer. However, richness regression models, based on macroecological diversity theory, have a long track record of making reliable spatial predictions of diversity patterns. If these empirical theories capture true functional relationships between environment and diversity, then they should make consistent predictions through time as well as space and could complement individual species-based predictions. Here, we use climate change throughout the 20th century to directly test the ability of these different approaches to predict shifts of Canadian butterfly diversity. We found that all approaches performed reasonably well, but the most accurate predictions were made using the single best richness-environment regression model, after accounting for the effects of spatial autocorrelation. Spatially trained regression models based on macroecological theory accurately predict diversity shifts for large species assemblages. Global changes provide pseudo-experimental tests of those macroecological theories that can then generate robust predictions of future conditions.
3683555|We studied both the short- and long-term effects of density on three life history traits of a red deer population inhabiting a temperate forest. Both male and female body mass increased when population density decreased, but male mass changed to a greater extent than female mass. Density did not influence female survival irrespective of age, however, survival of males was lower at high density for all age classes except the prime-age class. Pregnancy rates of primiparous females increased markedly with decreasing density, whereas those of adult hinds were fairly constant and unrelated to density. For both sexes, of the studied life history traits we detected a long-term effect of density at birth (cohort effect) only on body mass. These results suggest that density influences life history traits in the same way as factors of environmental variation such as climate. In this population we did not find any evidence for an influence of climatic conditions on life history traits of red deer. Both mild winters and the absence of summer droughts during the study period could account for such an absence of climatic effects. We interpreted our results to show that 1) as expected for a highly dimorphic and polygynous species such as red deer, male traits showed consistently higher sensitivity to variation in density than female traits, illustrating possible costs caused by sexual selection in males, 2) the female-based Eberhardt's model according to which increasing density should sequentially affect juvenile survival, reproductive rates of primiparous females, reproductive rates of adults and lastly adult survival was only partly supported because we found that pregnancy rate of primiparous females rather than juvenile survival was the most sensitive trait to variation in density. We propose that including variation in male traits would improve the accuracy of models of population dynamics of large mammals, at least for highly dimorphic species. Because the population we studied was not fenced, we only measured apparent survival. We discuss how dispersal, in relation to the phenotypic quality of young deer, might be a potential regulating factor under such conditions.
3683269|Conservation biology is special to the extent that it fills useful roles in the scientific and conservation fields that are not being filled by practitioners of other disciplines. The emergence of the "new conservation biology" in the late 1970's and its blossoming in the 1980's and 1990's reflect, to a large degree, a failure of traditional academic ecology and the natural resource disciplines to address modern conservation problems adequately. Yet, to be successful conservation biology, as an interdisciplinary field, must build on the strengths of other disciplines - both basic and applied. The new conservation biology grew out of concern over extinction of species, although the field has expanded to include issues about management of several levels of biological organization. I examine four controversial questions of importance to conservation biologists today: 1) are there any robust principles of conservation biology? 2) Is advocacy an appropriate activity of conservation biologists? 3) Are we educating conservation biologists properly? 4) Is conservation biology distinct from other biological and resource management disciplines? I answer three of these questions with a tentative "yes" and one (3) with a regretful "in most cases, no." I see a need for broader training for students of conservation biology, more emphasis on collecting basic field data, compelling applications of conservation biology to real problems, increased influence on policy, and expansion of the international scope of the discipline. If all these occur, conservation biology will by truly special.
3683062|In the present study, I examined flowering phenology of dwarf bearded iris, Iris pumila, using naturally occurring clones (three sites, four microsites) and clones transplanted between two sites representing two habitats. Naturally occurring clones in contrasting habitats and microsites differed significantly in phenology, with exposition of the site or microsite being the most important. Genotypes from more exposed habitats flowered earlier in both habitats and these differences were statistically significant. Patterns of between-habitat and between-population differences were stable over years even though years differed markedly in the flowering onset. Within-population genetic variability for flowering phenology was also found to be significant. Although clones with dark-colored flowers tended to flower earlier in all habitats and microsites I failed to detect statistically significant differences in flowering time among color morphs. Flowering phenology in I. pumila is highly susceptible to environmental variability, but this factor has not prevented population divergence in flowering time. Between-habitat differences in flowering time turned out to be a result of both phenotypic plasticity of individuals and genetic differentiation of populations.
3683007|Predation on artificial nests was studied in Belgian deciduous forest fragments between 1 and 200 ha. Predation rates were compared to fragment size, distance from the forest edge, time period (three replicates), and nest type (ground and tree). Logistic regression analysis showed that overall nest predation did not vary with distance from the edge, forest size, and time period. Birds represented over 70% of all predator attacks but their importance decreased in larger areas and away from the forest edge where mammals were responsible for much of the nest predation. It is concluded that the effect of habitat fragmentation depends on the composition of the local predator community.
3683360| Hypothesized life-cycle responses to climate change for the arctic, clonal perennial Carex bigelowii are constructed using a range of earlier observations and experiments together with new information from monitoring and an environmental perturbation study. These data suggest, that under current climate change scenarios, increases in CO
3683088|The epiphyte (lichens and bryophytes) species richness, diversity and composition on basal trunks of Picea abies in spruce swamp-forests were compared to adjacent mesic forests on mineral soil in two southern and two middle boreal sites in old-growth forest patches in Finland. The sampling was carried out along four line transects parallel to swamp-forest margin: 1) in the spruce swamp-forest, 2) at the swamp-forest margin, 3) on mineral soil c. 10-20 m off the swamp-forest margin and 4) on mineral soil at least 50 m off the swamp-forest margin. In the two southern boreal sites there was a decreasing trend in the average species number per tree from the trees in swamp-forests (21-25 species) to the trees on mineral soil (17-18 species), whereas in the two more humid and virgin middle boreal sites a similar trend was not detected (25-28 species on all trees). There were no major differences in the epiphyte flora between the locations or study sites; the dominant species occurred on nearly all sample trees. The crustose lichens Cliostomum leprosum, Arthonia leucopellaea and Lecanactis abietina were the most common species that were mainly confined to the swamp-forests in the southern boreal sites, C. leprosum also in the middle boreal sites. In addition, several rare species occurred exclusively on the swamp-forest trees. Lecanactis abietina extended significantly higher on the swamp-forest trees than on the trees on mineral soil in the southern boreal sites. The spruce swamp-forests proved to be one of the most important habitats for maintaining the epiphyte diversity in the boreal forest landscape.
3683089|Numerous investigators have suggested that small mammals may regulate ecosystem processes because they couple producers and decomposers through deposition of fecal materials and by dispersing spores from mycorrhizal symbiotic fungi. We investigated carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus mineralization rates from feces of two arvicoline rodents, Clethrionomys gapperi and Microtus pennsylvanicus, common in the forests of the Lake Superior region. We also examined fungal spore composition from these feces. Mineralizable pools of C and N and their decay rates were higher in feces from C. gapperi than from M. pennsylvanicus, but there were no differences in sizes of mineralizable pools of phosphorus. Feces of C. gapperi contained four times more fungal spores than those of M. pennsylvanicus. Twenty-three fungal genera were represented in these feces, and all but one genus have predominantly ectomycorrhizal forms. Fungal species composition also differed significantly between the two arvicoline species. Although the amount of N and P mineralized annually from populations of these two species is small compared with nutrient budgets for the forests as a whole, these species may be important in dispersing spores and labile nutrient pools to microsites of seedling establishment.
3682887| To determine how the scale of observation affects ecological patterns we studied bark beetle (Coleoptera, Scolytidae) diversity in southern Finland. A block covering 160  160 m of a forest was delimited in four stands of different site types. Each block was divided into 256 squares (10  10 m) in which the occurrence of bark beetle species was recorded. In addition, environmental variables describing site type, trees, and breeding material appropriate for bark beetles were measured. The species presence/absence data were combined at different scales of resolution (10  10 m, 20  20 m, 40  40 m, 80  80 m, 160  160 m). At the finest scale a recently thinned pine stand showed relatively high diversity compared to other study stands due to a few evenly distributed and abundant species. However, the species diversity increased faster toward larger scales in mature spruce stands with several sporadically distributed species. According to logistic regression analyses, breeding material and site characteristics explained the occurrence of most beetle species. However, these variables did not explain the occurrence of the six most frequent species, probably because the factors regulating their distribution and occurrence operate at larger scales. 
30243113|We investigated the effects of different environmental factors on the distribution and abundance of 6 species of dasyurid marsupials using a multiple-scale analysis. Data collected in the spinifex dunefields of the Simpson Desert, Australia, were analysed at 3 spatial scales spanning more than 5 orders of magnitude: "metasite" (covering an area of 1000-2000 km), site (2-12 km) and grid (0.01 km). Temporal variability was also investigated, using data collected in March, April, and May in 4 consecutive years from 1997 to 2000. Both abiotic and biotic factors influenced the capture rates of different species at different times and spatial scales. At the coarsest spatial scale, Dasycercus cristicauda (mulgara) was consistently limited in its distribution by the intensity of rainfall, probably as an indirect result of increased grazing pressure from pastoral activity and a higher density of feral predators in high rainfall areas. However, at the finest spatial scale, this partly carnivorous species was scarce in areas of dense spinifex, perhaps because such habitats yield lowest returns during foraging, and was more common in areas where small invertebrate prey were abundant. Factors affecting the distribution of the most abundant dasyurid species in the study area, Sminthopsis youngsoni (lesser hairy-footed dunnart), could not be identified at any scale; we conclude that this reflects the opportunistic foraging strategies and flexible habitat requirements of this insectivorous species. Both Ningaui ridei (wongai ningaui) and Sminthopsis hirtipes (hairy-footed dunnart) were less abundant throughout the study region. For N. ridei, a spinifex specialist, predictors of occurrence could be identified only at the finest scale of analysis; at the grid level, a close positive association was detected in 2 of the 4 study years between capture rate and spinifex cover. For S. hirtipes, all 3 levels of spatial analysis revealed a negative association between capture rate and both rainfall and spinifex density. For the rarely-caught S. crassicaudata (fat-tailed dunnart) and Planigale tenuirostris (narrow-nosed planigale), no clear results were obtained at any spatial scale, and we interpret this to indicate that the study region represents sub-optimal habitat for these species. Given that different factors affected the distribution and abundance of dasyurids at different spatial scales over time, we conclude that a multiple-scale approach to population and community analysis is vital to accurately identify which environmental processes shape population and community dynamics. Understanding the interplay between regional and local processes will be crucial for management of existing species populations and for prediction of their distributions and abundances in future.
3683852|Density-dependent dispersal can be caused by various mechanisms, from competition inducing individuals to emigrate (positive density-dependence) to social crowding effects impeding free movement (negative density-dependence). Various spatial population models have incorporated positively density-dependent dispersal algorithms, and recent theoretical models have explored the conditions for density-dependent dispersal (DD) to evolve. However, while the existence of DD is well documented in some taxa such as insects, there is no clear picture on its generality in vertebrates. Here I review the available empirical data on DD in birds and mammals, focusing mainly on variation in dispersal between years and on experimental density manipulations. Surprisingly few studies have explicitly focused on DD, and interpretation of the available data is often hampered by differences in approach, small sample sizes and/or statistical shortcomings. Positive DD was reported in 50 and 33% of the selected mammal and bird studies, respectively, while two studies on mammals (out of eight) reported negative DD. Among bird studies, DD was more often reported for emigration rates or long-distance recoveries than for average distances within finite study areas. Experimental studies manipulating densities (mainly on mammals) have consistently generated positive DD, typically showing reduced emigration in response to partial population removal. Studies that examined dispersal in relation to seasonal changes in density (small mammals only) have more often reported negative DD. Studies that compared dispersal between sites differing in density, also show a mixture of positive and negative DD. This suggests that dispersal changes in a more complex way with seasonal and spatial density variation than with annual densities, and/or that these results are confounded by other factors differing between seasons and sites, such as habitat quality. I conclude that both correlational and experimental studies support the existence of positive, rather than negative, density-dependent dispersal in birds and mammals.
3682824|Comparative studies of granivory intensity across different arid and semi-arid regions of the world have assumed homogeneity of conditions over large geographical areas, despite the existence of evident heterogeneities at local and regional scales. For South America, previous evidence from the Monte desert, Argentina, showed that granivory intensity is low compared with other continents and that seed removal rates by taxon (granivore ranking) are in decreasing order: ants > birds = small mammals. In this work, we examined the assumed generality of this pattern for another South American region, the Chilean matorral. We studied the differences between sparse and dense habitats of the matorral in granivory intensity throughout the year. Although total seed removal did not differ between habitats, differences among granivores did occur. Ants were the most important seed removers in both habitats, although they did not differ from birds in the sparse habitat. Further, ants were the most important seed consumers during summer, but their seed removal rate is almost negligible the rest of the year. Birds maintained an intermediate rate of seed consumption through the year. Granivory intensity by small mammals was very low in both habitats during the whole year. The granivore ranking obtained for the Chilean matorral was: ants > birds > mammals, in dense habitat; and ants = birds > mammals, in sparse matorral. Ant abundance is correlated with seed removal throughout the year. This relationship was not found in the other taxa. We discuss possible causes for the differences among habitats, taxa, and seasons, as well as distinct granivore rankings from different continents.
3683310|The occurrence of waders in spring (breeding as well as migrating species) in the intertidal zone was studied along the shores of Iceland. Ground surveys were made at a total of 115 sites on the west coast in May 1986 and 1987. Repeated counts in the same season were conducted at 76 sites visited in both early and late May 1987. Furthermore, an aerial census covering most of the Icelandic coastline was carried out in May 1990 (76% of the total coastal length of 6650 km and 92% of the total intertidal area of
30243235|Statistically distinguishing density-dependent from density-independent populations and selecting the best demographic model for a given population are problems of primary importance. Traditional approaches are PBLR (parametric bootstrapping of likelihood ratios) and Information criteria (IC), such as the Schwarz information criterion (SIC), the Akaike information criterion (AIC) or the Final prediction error (FPE). While PBLR is suitable for choosing from a couple of models, ICs select the best model from among a set of candidates. In this paper, we use the Structural risk minimization (SRM) approach. SRM is the model selection criterion developed within the Statistical learning theory (SLT), a theory of great generality for modelling and learning with finite samples. SRM is almost unknown in the ecological literature and has never been used to analyze time series. First, we compare SRM with PBLR in terms of their ability to discriminate between the Malthusian and the density-dependent Ricker model. We rigorously repeat the experiments described in a previous study and find out that SRM is equally powerful in detecting density-independence and much more powerful in detecting density-dependence. Then, we compare SRM against ICs in terms of their ability to select one of several candidate models; we generate, via stochastic simulation, a huge amount of artificial time series both density-independent and dependent, with and without exogenous covariates, using different dataset sizes, noise levels and parameter values. Our findings show that SRM outperforms traditional ICs, because generally a) it recognizes the model underlying the data with higher frequency, and b) it leads to lower errors in out-of-samples predictions. SRM superiority is specially apparent with short time series. We finally apply SRM to the population records of Alpine ibex Capra ibex living in the Gran Paradiso National Park (Italy), already investigated by other authors via traditional statistical methods; we both analyze their models and introduce some novel ones. We show that models that are best according to SRM show also the lowest leave-one-out cross-validation error.
3683342|We censused breeding birds for three years in natural landscape mosaics of virgin old-growth spruce forest and mire in a large protected forest area in northern Sweden. Twenty forest patches, ranging from 0.2 to 17.8 ha in size, were selected in two matrix types, dominated by forest and mire, respectively. Patches were very similar with regards to habitat features. There was a strong effect of patch area on species richness, but no effect of matrix type. Standardization of species richness by rarefaction revealed that small patches (< 5 ha) had fewer and large patches (> 10 ha) more species than expected. Overall distribution of species across patches showed a highly significant nested pattern, indicating that a few habitat generalists occupy all size classes, whereas more demanding species avoid small patches regardless of landscape composition. Individual species tended to be distributed evenly across patch classes and no significant edge effect in terms of density of birds was found. Our results have bearings on actions to preserve avian diversity in northern boreal forests: small patches (< 5 ha) provide habitat only for habitat generalists, and therefore larger (> 10 ha) patches should be preserved.
30244680|One island group suggested to be an exception to the species-area relationship is the Vanuatu Archipelago, a group of 13 large and 80 small islands in the southwest Pacific Ocean. To test the hypothesis that the lizard fauna of the Vanuatu Archipelago does not meet the predictions of the species-area relationship, and thus is depauperate, we compare diversity among several island groups in the southwest Pacific: Fiji, the Loyalty Islands, New Caledonia, Samoa, the Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Vanuatu. We found that the lizard diversity of Vanuatu meets the pattern of diversity predicted by the species-area relationship. The Solomon Islands, the largest and least isolated oceanic archipelago considered, has the greatest species diversity and endemism of the oceanic islands. Inclusion or exclusion of island groups based on factors such as geologic history or faunal source affects the strength of the relationship between diversity, area, and history of emergence, and influences perceptions of diversity within individual archipelagos. In addition to island size, factors such evolutionary time scale, speciation, and archipelago complexity influence species richness on islands.
3683510|We investigated the relationship between abundance and geographic range structure of 258 North American landbirds. For this purpose we used six measures of range structure based upon fractal geometry and geostatistics, and three ecological characteristics that can influence avian distribution. Permanent residents (PRs) that were abundant showed little fragmentation of their abundance surface at the periphery of their breeding range. Conversely, common Neotropical migrants (NTMs) exhibited low fragmentation of their central populations. The abundance surface was smoother for PRs than NTMs or short-distance migrants (SDMs), indicating that changes in abundance occurred more gradually across space for this group. The areas of high abundance for grassland species had little demographic fragmentation, but other populations showed little spatial autocorrelation in abundance. Species that bred in late-successional forests were relatively rare compared to species breeding in other habitat types. Among carnivores, PRs had a higher average abundance than either NTMs or SDMs. Although carnivores had more distributional gaps within their ranges than other trophic groups, the number of gaps did not differ between rare and abundant species, indicating that increased abundance did not change their presence/absence distribution maps. Knowledge of patterns and variations of geographic range structure among species may provide insights into processes that shape and maintain the biodiversity of a continent.
3683551|The frequency distribution of species' area of occupancy is often bimodal, most species being either very rare or very common in terms of number of occupied sites. This pattern has been attributed to the nonlinearity associated with metapopulation dynamics of the species, but there are also other explanations comprising sampling artifact and frequency distribution of suitable habitats. We tested whether the bimodal frequency distribution of occupied squares in central European birds could be derived solely from the frequency distribution of species population sizes (i.e. the sampling artifact hypothesis) or from the spatial distribution of their preferred habitats. Both models predict high proportion of very common species, i.e. the right side of frequency distribution. Bimodality itself is well predicted by models based on random placement of individuals according to their abundances but neither model predicts the observed prevalence of rare species. Even the combined models that assume random placement of individuals within the squares with suitable habitat do not predict such a high proportion of rare species. The observed distribution is more aggregated, rare species occupying a smaller portion of suitable habitat than predicted on the basis of their abundance. The pattern is consistent with metapopulation processes involving local population extinctions. The involvement of these processes is supported by two further observations. First, species rarity is associated with significant population trend and/or location on the edge of their ranges within central Europe, both situations presumably associated with metapopulation processes. Second, suitable habitats seem to be either saturated or almost unoccupied, which is consistent with the predictions of the metapopulation model based on nonlinear dynamics of extinction and colonization. Although the habitat suitability is an important determinant of species distribution, the rarity of many species of birds within this scale of observation seems to be affected by other factors, including local population extinctions associated with fragmentation of species' habitats.
3683346|Positive interspecific relationships between local abundance and geographic range size are a common feature of animal assemblages. However, range size typically explains only a moderate proportion of the variation in abundance, begging the question of whether species of differing life history deviate from the underlying relationship in any systematic fashion. Using data for the avifauna of Britain, and applying a comparative method to control for the effects of phylogenetic association, we demonstrate that this does not appear to be the case. Only adult survivorship, age at independence and incubation period explain significant variation in abundance once range size is controlled for statistically, and then only a few percent. There are two probable reasons why this result is contrary to general expectation. First, although many life history variables are expected to show simple correlations with abundance or range size it is not obvious how these might relate to variation about the abundance-range size relationship. Second, intuitive ideas about the form such variation might take may be seriously confounded by phylogenetic non-independence.
3682843|Population densities of Epirrita autumnata caterpillars were recorded from 1984 to 1990 in four mountain birch stands of two age categories, young and old. Caterpillar populations peaked in 1986-87, and peak densities were higher in the old than in the young stands. Recorded peak densities were low compared with synchronous populations with outbreak densities in neighbouring areas. Differences in caterpillar densities between young and old stands could not be explained by differences in survival of early instar caterpillars or in parasitoid-caused larval mortality. Instead, tree-age related differences in amounts of suitable oviposition sites and possible changes in food quality due to ageing and lower vigour of mature trees are suggested to explain why E. autumnata populations tend to be higher in old stands.
3682798|Uni- and bivariate spectral analyses of the spatial distribution of thick-billed murres Uria lomvia and acoustic estimates of prey biomass in the southeastern Bering Sea were used to examine the spatial variance patterns of a predator and its prey at multiple spatial scales. Power, phase and coherency spectra from individual transects, as well as those averaged over all transects, were examined. The average spectra, representing a temporal scale of months, showed that murres and prey had similar spatial variance patterns and were positively correlated over the range of spatial scales studied. The individual spectra, representing a temporal scale of hours, showed several patterns that were not evident in the average spectra. In particular, the transect-level analyses showed that the correlation between murres and prey was poor at spatial scales where prey variance was relatively low. This result suggests a new hypothesis to explain poor small-scale correlations between consumers and resources: resource distribution is relatively uniform at small scales resulting in only a slight increase in foraging return for consumers showing an aggregative response at these scales. The differences among spatial scales and between the average and individual spectra illustrate how ecological patterns can vary with temporal and spatial scale.
3683780|The aim of the present study was to compare the physiological characteristics of various populations of the lichen Lobaria pulmonaria in Portugal and Sweden. For this, indirect markers of algal (photobiont) and fungal (mycobiont) activity were measured, as well as their CO<sub>2</sub> gas exchange characteristics. Microclimatic conditions and the lichens growth performance in the two countries were compared using reciprocal transplantation. Two populations of L. pulmonaria represented each country: one collected from forest interior conditions and one from forest edge habitats. A non-transplanted "wild" population was also studied in each country, in order to evaluate any transplantation effects per se. The main hypothesis were that; 1) growth should be faster in Portugal due to higher light availability; 2) the energy use efficiency of lichen biomass gain should be similar for the native populations in their respective native habitat; 3) if the lichens were able to adapt to the environmental conditions in the foreign habitat this should be revealed as similar growth rates among all thalli transplanted at the same site, regardless of their origin. Physiologically, the Portuguese and Swedish populations were very similar, both concerning their CO<sub>2</sub> gasexchange characteristics and distribution of resources between photo- and mycobiont tissue. Environmental conditions were more advantageous for L. pulmonaria growth in Portugal, i.e. higher photon flux densities and ambient temperatures when the lichens were wet and active, and a lower fraction of the active time occurring in darkness. However, despite similar physiological characteristics of all the studied populations, the Swedish lichens were not able to grow as well in Portugal as the native, while all populations had similarly low growth rates in Sweden.
3682806|Ant predation and soil moisture have direct and interactive effects on the abundance and community structure of mycophagous flies. Here, we replicated an experiment across three climatically different habitat types to describe how these small-scale processes (microclimate and predation) are affected by macroclimatic variability at a larger spatial scale (among habitats). Each week for eight weeks during the summer of 1993, 18 Agaricus bisporus mushrooms were placed on dry, moist, or wet potting soil, within predator access or predator exclusion treatments cups, at six sites in the piedmont of South Carolina, USA. Two sites were moist hemlock ravines and four sites were dry ridgetops. Mushrooms and soil were collected after one week and fly metamorphs were counted and sorted by species. We described the effects of ant predation, soil moisture, site and week on the frequency of host use, metamorph abundance, and Simpson's diversity. All three measures were affected by macroclimatic differences among sites and across weeks. At wet sites and during rainy weeks, more mushrooms were used, more metamorphs emerged, and the communities were more diverse than at dry sites or during dry periods. The small-scale effect of soil moisture was strongly affected by large-scale macroclimatic conditions. In dry ridgetop sites and in dry weeks, abundance and diversity increased with increasing soil moisture. In moist sites or during rainy weeks, however, soil moisture was unimportant and had no effect on abundance or community structure. Predation was unaffected by large-scale differences in climate, but was affected by small-scale differences in soil moisture; becoming more intense as soil moisture increased. This research demonstrates that the effect of climate on predation is a scale-dependent phenomenon, and that microclimatic effects are mediated by climatic conditions at larger spatial scales. We relate these findings to hierarchical theory and hypotheses concerning the relative effects of tolerances, competition, and predation under different levels of environmental stress.
3683164|The induced defence reaction of Scots pine Pinus sylvestris to stem attacks by the common pine shoot beetle, Tomicus piniperda (Col., Scolytidae), was studied by inducing natural attacks on young Scots pine trees of different vigour. Pruned trees were more heavily attacked by T. piniperda than unpruned ones. Vigorous trees successfully contained the attacking beetles within resinous lesions, whereas less vigorous trees failed to defend themselves. The content of resin acids increased dramatically in the lesions on all trees, and the resin acid composition differed somewhat between some treatments. Starch accumulation in the inner bark of the main stem was lower in pruned trees than in unpruned ones, and starch reserves were depleted in the most heavily attacked trees. All but one of the unpruned trees survived the attack, whereas most of the severely pruned ones died following attack by beetles at densities exceeding c. 300 egg galleries m
3683537|Species-area relationships (SARs) are among the most studied phenomena in ecology, and are important both to our basic understanding of biodiversity and to improving our ability to conserve it. But despite many advances to date, our knowledge of how various factors contribute to SARs is limited, searches for single causal factors are often inconclusive, and true predictive power remains elusive. We believe that progress in these areas has been impeded by 1) an emphasis on single-factor approaches and thinking of factors underlying SARs as mutually exclusive hypotheses rather than potentially interacting processes, and 2) failure to place SAR-generating factors in a scale-dependent framework. We here review mathematical, ecological, and evolutionary factors contributing to species-area relationships, synthesizing major hypotheses from the literature in a scale-dependent context. We then highlight new research directions and unanswered questions raised by this scale-dependent synthesis.
3682834|Lacerta (Zootoca) vivipara, has allopatric oviparous and viviparous populations: viviparity is observed from central France and the British Isles to Scandinavia and Russia, while oviparity is restricted to northern Spain and southwestern France, i.e. the extreme southwestern part of the range. Recent observations in the Rila, Balkan, Vitocha, Pirin and Rhodopes mountains indicate that Bulgarian populations of Lacerta (Zootoca) vivipara are indeed viviparous. The electrophoretic study of allozymes and the estimation of genetic distances indicate that viviparous lizards from northwest and central France are more closely related to those of Bulgaria, than to the oviparous lizards of southwest France and northwest Spain. Variations in reproductive mode and allozymes are not directly related to geographic distances between populations, nor to their latitude: populations located at the southwest limit of distribution are oviparous and exhibit alleles
3682760| Habitat type may influence dispersal in a variety of animal species. We examined dispersal in the rock-dwelling land snail Chondrina clienta in a limestone pavement, on vertical rock walls, a pile of stones and a stone wall on the Baltic island of land, Sweden. Dispersal was estimated by recording movements of marked C. clienta in natural populations over 3 yr. Dispersal differed significantly between habitat types. The largest distances dispersed were recorded in the limestone pavement (
20696320|Habitat thresholds are usually defined as "points of abrupt change" in the specieshabitat relationships. Habitat thresholds can be a key tool for understanding species requirements, and provide an objective definition of conservation targets, by identifying when habitat loss leads to a rapid loss of species, and the minimum amount of habitat necessary for species persistence. However, a large variety of statistical methods have been used to analyse them. In this context, we reviewed these methods and, using simulated data sets, we tested the main models to compare their performance on the identification of thresholds. We show that researchers use very different analytical tools, corresponding to different operational definitions of habitat thresholds, which can considerably affect their detection. Piecewise regression and generalized additive models allow both the distinction between linear and nonlinear dynamics, and the correct identification of break point position. In contrast, other methods such as logistic regression fail because they may incorrectly detect thresholds in gradual patterns, or they may over or underestimate the threshold position. In conservation or habitat modelling, it is important to focus efforts efficiently and the inappropriate choice of statistical methods may have detrimental consequences.
3683209|We detected a significant inter- and intraspecific host preference on the level of individual host use in a system, in which three moth species (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), feeding on a cattail Typha latifolia, are parasitized by three solitary parasitoid species (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae). The biology of the host species is similar but they exhibit remarkable inter- and intraspecific variance in body size. All the parasitoid species preferred the largest host species in this system whereas other host species were used only occasionally. We found that parasitoids which emerged from females of the preferred host species were larger than those which developed in males of the same species. Accordingly, two of the parasitoid species had a significant within-host-species preference: females of the largest moth species were used more often than males. No dependence of the preference pattern on host density was found. This pattern of host use is discussed in the light of the switching theory and the optimal host selection theory. Our results indicate that non-random host use by parasitoids may have significant effects on host populations and communities, and forms a potential selective factor against large body size in herbivorous insects. Unlike the majority of ichneumonid wasps, these three parasitoid species have no remarkable female-biased sexual size dimorphism. In accordance with the predictions of Charnov's sex allocation theory for this case, we did not observe any significant host quality dependent biases in sex allocation: there was no association between host sex and parasitoid sex, neither did parasitoid sex ratio differ between years with different host quality.
3683159|The pre-nesting feeding behaviour of greylag Anser anser and pink-footed geese A. brachyrhynchus was studied on agricultural land at low altitude in southern Iceland from 10 April to 8 May 1990. Greylag geese were already present on 12 April, increased to 4580 birds by 24 April, but declined to 1300 by 3 May. Pink-footed geese arrived around 20 April and numbers continued to increase to a peak count of 11340 on 3 May. Over 60% of greylag geese initially used stubble fields on the coast where this habitat was most frequent, but increasingly resorted to grassland and wetland habitats during late April. Later-arriving pink-feet predominantly used managed grassland, away from coastal areas. At inland grassland sites, greylag numbers peaked on 20 April, pink-feet in early May. The early exploitation by greylags was associated with grass growth initiated under protective snow-patches. Greylags spent 90 times more time feeding within 1 m of snow patches with enhanced grass growth than expected by chance and their feeding rates near snow patches were faster and their step rates slower than further away. By early May, grass growth was uniform and, although snow-patches persisted, no difference in forage quality, goose feeding rates or step rates could be detected. It is concluded that, in spring 1990 at least, habitat segregation during spring migration in southern Iceland minimised competition between these two closely related goose species within the same geographical area. In areas where both species exploit the same habitat, a two week difference in timing of breeding (and hence phenology of migration) further assures minimal overlap in feeding exploitation.
30244645|Confidence in projections of the future distributions of species requires demonstration that recently-observed changes could have been predicted adequately. Here we use a dynamic model framework to demonstrate that recently-observed changes at the expanding northern boundaries of three British butterfly species can be predicted with good accuracy. Previous work established that the distributions of the study species currently lag behind climate change, and so we presumed that climate is not currently a major constraint at the northern range margins of our study species. We predicted 1970-2000 distribution changes using a colonisation model, MIGRATE, superimposed on a high-resolution map of habitat availability. Thirty-year rates and patterns of distribution change could be accurately predicted for each species ( goodness-of-fit of models > 0.64 for all three species, corresponding to > 83% of grid cells correctly assigned), using a combination of individual species traits, species-specific habitat associations and distance-dependent dispersal. Sensitivity analyses showed that population productivity was the most important determinant of the rate of distribution expansion (variation in dispersal rate was not studied because the species are thought to be similar in dispersal capacity), and that each species' distribution prior to expansion was critical in determining the spatial pattern of the current distribution. In future, modelling approaches that combine climate suitability and spatially-explicit population models, incorporating demographic variables and habitat availability, are likely to be valuable tools in projecting species' responses to climatic change and hence in anticipating management to facilitate species' dispersal and persistence.
3682855|In coastal salt marshes, mats of wrack (dead plant stems) that are deposited on the marsh by high tides can kill underlying vegetation and initiate secondary succession. The importance of wrack disturbance in northwest Atlantic salt marshes has been a topic of recent debate. The importance of wrack disturbance in southwest Atlantic salt marshes, which experience a very different climate regime than do northern marshes, has rarely been examined. Working in a Georgia salt marsh, we documented a pattern of positive association between wrack and Batis maritima biomass, and conducted experiments that indicated that wrack was beneficial to Batis maritima. Sampling indicated that natural wrack deposition was correlated with areas of vigorous Batis growth and mild soil conditions. Natural wrack deposition occurred primarily at the highest elevations occupied by Batis maritima (the high Batis zone). Batis plants in the high zone were taller, with more and larger leaves, and contained several times the biomass/unit area than Batis plants at lower elevations. High zone soils had lower salinities, better percolation rates, and a lower organic content than did soils from lower elevations. Experimental manipulations demonstrated that deposition of wrack was partially responsible for these patterns. In each of two experiments, soil salinities were lower and plants taller and larger in the presence of wrack compared to in its absence. Although wrack lowered salinities and enhanced plant growth, the effects were not large enough to completely explain the differences between Batis zones. Instead, wrack probably reinforced pre-existing gradients in flooding and salinity caused by differences in elevation and terrestrial runoff. Our results contrast with previous studies from northern marshes. Because of geographic differences in climate and plant phenology, northern marshes are more likely than southern marshes to receive patches of wrack thick enough to kill underlying vegetation. Plants covered by thin layers of wrack, as commonly occurs in southern marshes, may often grow through the wrack rather than suffer mortality. Also because of climatic differences, wrack is more likely to benefit plants by ameliorating salinity stress in southern marshes, where soil salinities are often hypersaline, than in northern marshes where soils are rarely hypersaline. Although ecological processes may differ between northern and southern salt marshes, these differences may be predictable based on an understanding of geographic variation in climate.
3683428| The most ubiquitous and well recognized diversity pattern at large spatial scales is the latitudinal increase in species richness near the equator and decline towards the poles. Although several exceptions to this pattern have been documented, shallow water mollusks, the most specious group of marine invertebrates, are the epitome of the monotonic decline in species diversity toward higher latitudes along the Pacific and Atlantic coasts of North America. Here we analyze the geographic diversity of 629 mollusk species along the Pacific South American shelf. Our analyses are based on the most complete database of invertebrates assembled for this region of the world, consisting of latitudinal ranges of over 95% of all described mollusks between 10 and 55S. Along this coast, mollusk diversity did not follow the typical latitudinal trend. The number of species remained constant and relatively low at intermediate latitudes and sharply increased toward higher latitudes, south of 42S. This trend was explained by changes in shelf area, but not by sea surface temperature, unlike the pattern documented for Northern Hemisphere mollusks. Direct sampling of soft bottom communities along the gradient suggests that regional trends in species richness are produced by increased alpha diversity, and not only by artifacts produced by the increase in sampling area. We hypothesize that increased shelf area south of 42S, geographic isolation produced by divergence of major oceanic currents, and the existence of refugia during glaciations, enabled species diversification. Radiation could have been limited by narrow continental shelves between 10-42. Asymmetries in latitudinal diversity trends between hemispheres show that there is not a single general factor determining large-scale diversity patterns. 
3683492|We examined the effect of range size in commonly applied macroecological analyses using continental distribution data for all 550 Neotropical palm species (Arecaceae) at varying grain sizes from 0.5 to 5. First, we evaluated the relative contribution of range-restricted and widespread species on the patterns of species richness and endemism. Second, we analysed the impact of range size on the predictive value of commonly used predictor variables. Species sequences were produced arranging species according to their range size in ascending, descending, and random order. Correlations between the cumulative species richness patterns of these sequences and environmental predictors were performed in order to analyse the effect of range size. Despite the high proportion of rare species, patterns of species richness were found to be dominated by a minority of widespread species (20%) which contained 80% of the spatial information. Climatic factors related to energy and water availability and productivity accounted for much of the spatial variation of species richness of widespread species. In contrast, species richness of range-restricted species was to a larger extent determined by topographical complexity. However, this effect was much more difficult to detect due to a dominant influence of widespread species. Although the strength of different environmental predictors changed with spatial scale, the general patterns and trends proved to be relatively stabile at the examined grain sizes. Our results highlight the difficulties to approximate causal explanations for the occurrence of a majority of species and to distinguish between contemporary climatic factors and history.
20696304|Little is known about the role of migratory waterfowl in the long-distance dispersal (LDD) of seeds. We studied the gut contents of 42 teals Anas crecca collected in the Camargue, southern France, and found intact seeds of 16 species. There was no relationship between the probability that a given seed species was found intact in the lower gut, and the seed hardness or size. The number of seeds found in the oesophagus and gizzard (a measure of ingestion rate) was the only significant predictor of the occurrence of intact seeds in the lower gut, so studies of waterfowl diet can be used as surrogates of dispersal potential. In a literature review, we identified 223 seed species recorded in 25 diet studies of teal, pintail Anas acuta, wigeon A. penelope or mallard A. platyrhynchos in Europe. We considered whether limited species distribution reduces the chances that a seed can be carried to suitable habitat following LDD. Overall, 72% of plant species recorded in duck diets in southern Europe (36 of 50) were also recorded in the north, whereas 97% of species recorded in duck diets in the north (137 of 141) were also recorded in the south. This suggests a great potential for LDD, since most dispersed plants species occur throughout the migratory range of ducks. Migratory ducks are important vectors for both terrestrial and aquatic plant species, even those lacking the fleshy fruits or hooks typically used to identify seeds dispersed by birds. Finally, we show ducks are important vectors of exotic plant species. We identified 14 alien to Europe and 44 native to Europe but introduced to some European countries whose seeds have been recorded in duck diet.
3682816|Variation at 7 isoenzyme loci was studied in 15 populations (6 from Iceland, 4 from W Norway, 4 from central Sweden at the Bothnian Gulf, and 1 from Russian Karelia). Heterozygosity within populations was found to be remarkably high compared with taxa with similar reproductive systems and phytogeographical histories. Genetic distances calculated from isoenzyme data showed a close connection between the Norwegian and Swedish populations, indicating a western rather than an eastern immigration route for the isolated Swedish population. Leaf shape variation displayed a large scale geographical pattern with strong differences between regions and low variation within populations.
3683306| Buds and staminate catkins of alder (Alnus spp.) form an important winter food for hazel grouse Bonasa bonasia in the Fennoscandian boreal forest. Alder was found to be highly preferred over other deciduous trees, particularly alders 10 m tall and 15 m from spruce forest. Winter territories were probably feeding territories, as size was correlated negatively with alder density and almost significantly correlated negatively with competitor density. All winter territories were found to contain ample winter food resources for hazel grouse. However, the distribution of territories was associated significantly with the distribution of alders at two levels of scale, the territory level and the landscape level. Moreover, relationships between the abundance of alders and hazel grouse were found at two additional levels of scale, the local patch level and the biogeographic region level. This agreement of the results from four levels of scale strongly suggested that the abundance and distribution of alder was a major factor limiting hazel grouse winter territories within dense Norway spruce Picea abies forests in the boreal zone of Fennoscandia. Alder was relatively uncommon and exhibited a clumped dispersion pattern at the local and landscape scales, being associated with wet and rich soils. The close relationship to alder implies that hazel grouse winter habitats, even in natural forests, also should be distributed patchily. Hazel grouse may select the catkins and buds of alder because it is a very nutritous food source, and small species, such as the hazel grouse, require more nutritious food than larger species. 
30244559|Management and conservation of populations of animals requires information on where they are, why they are there, and where else they could be. These objectives are typically approached by collecting data on the animals' use of space, relating these positional data to prevailing environmental conditions and employing the resulting statistical models to predict usage at other geographical regions. Technical advances in wildlife telemetry have accomplished manifold increases in the amount and quality of available data, creating the need for a statistical framework that can use them to make population-level inferences for habitat preference and space-use. This has been slow-in-coming because wildlife telemetry data are spatio-temporally autocorrelated, often unbalanced, presence-only observations of behaviourally complex animals, responding to a multitude of cross-correlated environmental variables. We review the evolution of regression models for the analysis of space-use and habitat preference and outline the essential features of a framework that emerges naturally from these foundations. This allows us to derive a relationship between usage of points in geographical space and preference of habitats in environmental space. Within this framework, we discuss eight challenges, inherent in the spatial analysis of telemetry data and, for each, we propose solutions that can work in tandem. Specifically, we propose a logistic, mixed-effects approach that uses generalized additive transformations of the environmental covariates and is fitted to a response data-set comprising the telemetry and simulated observations, under a case-control design. We apply this framework to a non-trivial case-study using satellite-tagged grey seals Halichoerus grypus from the east coast of Scotland. We perform model selection by cross-validation and confront our final model's predictions with telemetry data from the same, as well as different, geographical regions. We conclude that, despite the complex behaviour of the study species, flexible empirical models can capture the environmental relationships that shape population distributions.
3683207|Most present Danish forest types are a direct result of recent silvicultural practice. We use fossil pollen data converted into estimates of tree abundance to map the development of forest types during the last 3000 radiocarbon yr. The forest types were clusters in an artificial neural network based on all available European Holocene pollen data. Diverse deciduous forest types found 3000 yr ago were replaced by less diverse Fagus-dominated types over a period of 2000 yr. The present day map contained many new combinations of tree species, dominated by Picea and Pinus. The association between the increase in non-forest communities and establishment of Fagus suggests that anthropogenic activity has accelerated the loss of species-rich deciduous forest with abundant Alnus, Corylus, Quercus and Tilia. We conclude that the natural forest composition of Denmark would be deciduous forest today with a significant presence of Fagus sylvatica. Recent forest development has created a break in compositional continuity with the past that is unnatural and has posed problems for forest-dependent biota.
3683457|Several hypotheses attempt to explain the latitudinal gradient of species diversity, but some basic aspects of the pattern remain insufficiently explored, including the effect of scales and the role of beta diversity. To explore such components of the latitudinal gradient, we tested the hypothesis of covariation, which states that the gradient of species diversity should show the same pattern regardless of the scale of analysis. The hypothesis implies that there should be no gradients of beta diversity, of regional range size within regions, and of the slope of the species-area curve. For the fauna of North American mammals, we found contrasting results for bats and non-volant species. We could reject the hypothesis of covariation for non-volant mammals, for which the number of species increases towards lower latitudes, but at different rates depending on the scale. Also, for this group, beta diversity is higher at lower latitudes, the regional range size within regions is smaller at lower latitudes, and z, the slope of the species-area relationship is higher at lower latitudes. Contrarily bats did not show significant deviations from the predictions of the hypothesis of covariation: at two different scales, species richness shows similar trends of increase at lower latitudes, and no gradient can be demonstrated for beta diversity, for regional range size, or for the slopes of the species-area curve. Our results show that the higher diversity of non-volant mammals in tropical areas of North America is a consequence of the increase in beta diversity and not of higher diversity at smaller scales. In contrast, the diversity of bats at both scales is higher at lower latitudes. These contrasting patterns suggest different causes for the latitudinal gradient of species diversity in the two groups that are ultimately determined by differences in the patterns of geographic distribution of the species.
3682838|The movements of 10 house cats (4 desexed females, 5 desexed males and 1 intact male) living on the edge of a suburb adjoining grassland and forest/woodland habitat, and a neighbouring colony of seven farm cats, were examined using radio-telemetry over nine months. Nocturnal home range areas of the suburban cats varied between 0.02 and 27.93 ha (mean 7.89 ha), and were larger than diurnal home range areas (range 0.02 to 17.19 ha - mean 2.73 ha). Nocturnal home range areas of cats from the farm cat colony varied between 1.38 and 4.46 ha (mean 2.54 ha), and were also larger than diurnal home range areas (range 0.77 to 3.70 ha - mean 1.70 ha). Home ranges of cats in the farm cat colony overlapped extensively, as did those of cats living at the same suburban residence. There was no overlap of home ranges of female cats from different residences, and little overlap between males and females from different residences. Four of the suburban house cats moved between 390 m and 900 m into habitat adjoining the suburb. Polygons describing the home ranges of these animals were strongly spatially biased away from the suburban environment, though the cats spent the majority of their time within the bounds of the suburb. Movements further than 100-200 m beyond the suburb edge were always made at night. There is evidence that home range sizes and spatial movement patterns of house cats are largely determined by: a) the density and spatial distribution of cats utilising separate food resources, b) the personality and social dominance of individual cats, c) the location of favoured hunting and resting/sunning sites, and, d) barriers such as busy roads.
3683741|Many evolutionary models and empirical studies of parasite-host interactions consider single species of parasites exploiting single host species. However, many parasites are generalists in that they parasitize more than one host species (often many more) and establish associations with other hosts that cannot be described as true parasitism. We identify such an association, explain how constraints may maintain it, and indicate why such diffuse interactions are deserving of attention. We describe the use of two closely related Sympetrum dragonfly species by larvae of the water mite Arrenurus planus Marshall. Adults of one dragonfly species are resistant whereas adults of the other species are almost wholly susceptible to A. planus. However, A. planus attaches as often to the resistant host as it does to the susceptible host species when relative abundance and seasonal timing of adult emergence of both species is considered. We present evidence that mites track the susceptible host and are most active early in the season, when early-emerging unsuitable hosts are also present. Thus, use of resistant hosts appears an unavoidable outcome of constraints promoting discovery and use of susceptible hosts. Such findings have implications for studies of local adaptation and host switching.
30244519|Hybridization occurs among many species, and may have implications for conservation as well as for evolution. Interspecific gene flow between brown hares Lepus europaeus and mountain hares L. timidus has been documented in Sweden and in continental Europe, and has probably to some extent occurred throughout history in sympatric areas. What local factors or ecological relationships that correlate with or trigger hybridization between these species has however been unclear. We studied spatial distribution of hybrids between brown hares and mountain hares in Sweden in relation to characteristics of the sampled localities (hunting grounds). In a sample of 70 brown hares collected from 39 populations in south-central Sweden during 2003-2005, 11 (16%) showed introgressed mtDNA from mountain hares. Among the brown hares from their northern range, i.e. in general the most recent establishments, the corresponding figure was 75% (9/12). The frequency of samples with hybrid ancestry increased significantly with latitude, altitude and hilliness, and were higher (p < 0.1) in recently established populations and/or where the proportion of arable land was low. Several site-specific parameters were correlated, e.g. latitude as expected to hilliness, and no parameter explained the occurrence of hybrids exclusively. Instead, the appearance of mountain hare mtDNA among brown hares was associated with a conglomerate of parameters reflecting landscapes atypical for the brown hare, e.g. forest dominated and steep areas where the species quite recently was established. We suggest that these abiotic factors mirror the main aspect influencing hybridization frequency, namely the density or relative frequency of the two species. In atypical brown hare landscapes with recent establishment, mountain hares are probably relatively more common. When one species dominate in numbers, or when both species display low densities, increased frequency of hybridization is expected due to low availability of conspecific partners, a phenomenon referred to as Hubbs' principle.
3683583|Availability of food and habitat complexity are two factors generally invoked to explain the high density of fish in vegetated habitats. The role of food resources (zooplankton) and habitat complexity (expressed by a vegetation structural index) in determining juvenile fish abundance and fish species richness in three morphologically contrasted macrophyte types (Sagittaria, Ceratophyllum and Nuphar) was studied for a large, lowland river. Our results showed that fish abundance increased with food availability, and was maximal for intermediate values of vegetation complexity. Food resources and vegetation complexity did not, however, explain the higher juvenile fish abundance observed in Sagittaria beds. We suggested that plant growth form, acting on fish foraging success and risk of predation, might influence patterns of juvenile fish distribution. Species-abundance relationships were similar among the three macrophyte types, but relationships between number of fish species (fish richness) and number of samples differed. Fish richness in terms of total number of fish species found at each sampling point showed the same pattern as for fish abundance: it increased with food availability and was highest at intermediate vegetation complexities. However, since both fish abundance and fish richness responded in the same manner to food availability and vegetation complexity, we were not able to distinguish statistically any effect for the specific fish richness formulated by the number of fish species per unit fish abundance. The current paradigm that structural complexity of vegetation provides a wider range of niches, increasing species diversity, was thus not verified. This finding indicates a simple species-abundance relationship (the passive sampling hypothesis), and suggests that no special mechanism acts directly on fish species richness.
3683703|Expansion within breeding colonies may critically depend upon the availability of suitable breeding habitat. Here we use topographic modelling in a GIS to characterise suitable pupping habitat and accurately predict the pattern of colonisation in an expanding grey seal breeding colony - the Isle of May (Scotland). We use high resolution images from large format aerial photographs of the colony to generate sub-metre accurate Digital Terrain Models (DTMs). GIS modelling with these DTMs provides topographic measures of elevation, slope and ease of access to sea and freshwater pools at a 2 m grid cell size. Seal locations during the 1994 breeding season, with sex-age class, were also digitised from the same images. We examine how the physical attributes of cells (locations) with and without pups differ and identify areas suitable for pupping but remaining unoccupied during 1994. We predict patterns of future colonisation by characterising areas differentiated by the densities of pups within 5 m grid cells and identifying areas, both occupied or unoccupied, with a potential for increased future pupping densities. Our predictions were tested by examining pup distributions observed in the 1998 breeding season. Occupied sites were significantly closer to freshwater pools and access to the sea (p < 0.001) than unoccupied sites suggesting that proximity to water may restrict colony expansion before all areas of suitably flat terrain are occupied. All pup density classes occurred in sites with similar slope values and distance to pools. However, higher pupping densities occurred closer to access points (p = 0.014). Pup densities observed in 1998 revealed that our 1994 predictions were accurate (p < 0.0001). Only 12% of 466 grid cells had higher densities in 1998 than predicted, of which 88% differed by only 1 pup. These incorrectly classified cells occurred at the expanding edge of the colony (in a more topographically homogenous area) and at the main access points from the sea (major traffic zones). These results demonstrate the value of the accurate quantification of topographic parameters at the appropriate spatial grain (in this case below the size of the individual) for use in habitat classification and predictions of habitat utilisation.
3683612|The interaction between frugivorous birds and trees producing bird-dispersed seeds in devastated areas has been considered to be weak, owing to the paucity of avifauna and/or food resources for birds. Here, we present evidence that strong interactions between birds and plants may promote the enlargement of tree distribution on harsh environments. The summit of Mount Koma, northern Japan, was denuded by the 1929 volcanic eruption. Vegetation cover gradually decreases from the bottom (secondary forest) to the top (bareground) of the mountain. We recorded 48 bird species in the four seasons of 2001, along a 5-km line transect on the southwestern slope of the mountain. Birds faeces collected along the transect contained seeds of more than 14 plant taxa. Five of the 14 taxa were bird-dispersal tree species (Rhus trichocarpa, Sorbus commixta, Prunus ssiori, Prunus maximowiczii and Prunus sargentii) and were established in the summit area. Most faeces were derived from Corvus spp. (mostly C. macrorhynchos) and Turdus naumanni. In particular, the seeds of R. trichocarpa were found mostly from the faeces of Corvus spp. and the seeds of Gaultheria miqueriana, a shrub species, were only from T. naumanni. Rhus trichocarpa retained fruits on the canopy at all times of the year, and crows could feed on them even when food resources were poor in winter. Rhus trichocarpa seedlings established well near rock at higher elevation, while they occurred mostly under the larch canopy of larches at lower elevation. Crows mostly utilized tree canopies and rocks as perches in respective habitats. Therefore, seedlings should be abundant in specific habitats at different elevations. Size-class distribution of seedlings suggested that seedling mortality was lower at higher elevation where open sites were more abundant. These findings indicate that strong mutual advantages for C. macrorhynchos and R. trichocarpa on denuded areas play an important role on revegetation.
3682767| Ellenberg's indicator values for light, moisture and reaction were tested in deciduous hardwood forests of the Boreo-nemoral zone in Sweden. Weighted averages of indicator values were calculated and correlated with field measurements for two test sets of relevs. The best, highly significant correlations were found for reaction, particularly for weighted averages based on vascular plant species. Significant correlations were also found for light, whereas those for moisture were less good and only partly significant. Weighted averages based on presence/absence values and those based on cover/abundance values were generally very similar to each other, but showed differences in their correlations with actual measurements. A training set of relevs was used to calculate optima and ecological amplitudes of the most common species. Under certain conditions, the original indicator values were replaced by these optima in order to obtain improved indicator values for Swedish deciduous forests. These were correlated with the same test sets of field measurements as the original values and clearly gave better results for light as well as for reaction regarding vascular plants. No clear differences were found for moisture and reaction regarding bryophytes. For the majority of species, the original indicator values also expressed the ecological optima in Swedish deciduous forests as determined by this study. However, several species, most of them preferring more open habitats, showed ecological optima and amplitudes that considerably deviated from central European conditions. In conclusion, Ellenberg's indicator values can successfully be used in south Swedish deciduous forests, particularly after calibration of the values according to regional deviations. 
3683726|Changes in land use during the last century have caused fragmentation and a reduction in area of many species-rich habitats in the hemiboreal region. We examined abundances of plant species and their occurrence in different habitats in south-east Sweden. We found 361 plant species in 146 sample sites, which represented 14 different types of habitat. Most species were rare and occurred only in a few habitats. Almost half of all species (49%) were found in one or two habitats. Of these, 99 species occurred in one habitat only. The habitats with largest number of restricted species, i.e. habitat specialists, were dry to mesic semi-natural grasslands and remnant habitats such as road verges and midfield islets. The occurrence of 52 species was analysed with respect to topography, top- and subsoil and land use history. Few of the 52 species were affected by aspect or type of topsoil. Subsoil affected nearly half of the species and habitats with a convex landform influenced occurrence of > 90% of the species. Seventeen species were positively associated with a long continuity of grassland management, whereas two species were associated with lack of management. Open grasslands that are encroached by trees and shrubs show a decline in species number. Deciduous forests, especially wet deciduous forests, have a potential for restoring moist to mesic grassland habitats. Small remnant habitats are important for many of the species restricted to semi-natural grasslands. These habitats may function as "rescue sites" for the species, which in turn may promote dispersal and increase likelihood of restoration success. Therefore, remnant habitats are important for maintaining and restoring species richness in rural landscapes.
3683444|Animals can cope with fluctuating climates by physiological tolerance, tracking of climatic fluctuations (migration) and compensatory redistribution among (micro)habitats (compensation). Compensation is less demanding and thus more important than migration at large geographic scales. It is not clear however which strategy is more important at the small scale of a microhabitat landscape. I investigated how six arthropod species (Collembola, Oribatei, Psocoptera, Isopoda) respond to microclimatic fluctuations at the surface of exposed tree trunks. Across a nine-month period I characterized the microclimatic zonation of 299 trunks, and focally sampled the arthropods from different microhabitat types (different cryptogam species and bark crevices) within different microclimatic zones. I found that compensatory microhabitat-use was a general phenomenon. The distribution of all species across microhabitats was influenced significantly by ambient microclimate. Also, the arthropods' microhabitat use changed throughout their ontogeny, and microhabitats were used even if they were rare. Most interestingly, the arthropods responded to microclimatic fluctuations primarily by redistribution among microhabitats and less by fluctuations of overall abundances across all microhabitats. Hence compensation was more important than migration. The animals moved for centimeters to decimeters rather than for decimeters to meters; they perceived and utilized their environment primarily at the finest, but also most complex scale. This has implications for the resilience of arthropod populations, their interactions with cryptogams and the turnover of species between macrohabitats.
3683788|The abundance of many species of wood-decaying fungi has decreased dramatically in Swedish boreal forests over the last century. Therefore, we have investigated the relationship between the spore dispersal of wood-decaying fungi and two key features of landscape composition, namely the amount and age of old forest stands at different spatial scales. Spore deposition was monitored in two regions, using sampling methods based on recording the dikaryotisation of monokaryotic mycelia on nutrient agar and wood discs. The studied species, all mainly confined to Norway spruce in the boreal forest zone, were Fomitopsis pinicola, Fomitopsis rosea, Gloeoporus taxicola, Phlebia centrifuga and Trichaptum laricinum. The study of forestry intensity showed for both regions, that the spore deposition for F. pinicola, F. rosea and G. taxicola was higher in circular plots (radius 2-km) with a high proportion of old Norway spruce forest (> 80 yr) than in plots with a lower proportion of old forest. Analysis of the variation in spore deposition of F. rosea and P. centrifuga in relation to the proportion of old spruce forest within 1, 2 and 3 km of the spore sampling point showed that the proportion of old forest within a 3-km radius explained more of the variation than the proportions within 1- and 2-km radii. In addition, the proportion of forest older than 140 yr explained more of the variation than the proportion of younger forests. Thus, the results show that the spore deposition of the studied species strongly depends on the landscape composition at both regional and local scales. Further, the spore deposition at the local scale was best explained by the proportion of > 140 yr old spruce forest, which exceeds the common harvest rotation period.
3682963|We monitored movements and haul-out patterns of four ringed seals Phoca hispida, off Northwest Greenland between 5 June and 31 October 1988 using the Argos Data Collection and Location System. When the seals were hauled out on fast ice their locations were accurately determined, but when they were at sea, few accurate locations were obtained, evidently because these seals spent little time at the surface between dives. The seals remained within the fjord where they were tagged, and hauled out often to early July. Thereafter, as fast-ice disappeared, they dispersed widely and spent less time hauled out. Time of day had no significant effect on haul-out patterns. Haul-out periods declined significantly from June to August and increased in September-October. Satellite contact with one seal was lost after 16 d while the seal was still in the fjord in late June. One seal travelled over 200 km southwest and was located 4 July in offshore waters of Smith Sound 30 d after instrumentation. Another seal moved southeast along the Greenland coast where contact was lost after 49 d on 23 July. The fourth seal moved north along the Greenland coast, hauled out regularly on ice, and returned south along the coast in late September and October after 181 d of contact with the satellite.
3683031| In this study of common murre Uria aalge chicks, at Stora Karls in the Baltic Sea (Sweden), we used two data sets to investigate the post-fledging migration to learn more on potential threats from human activities. Firstly, we radio tracked 12 chicks on average 5.1 h during their first night at sea, after jumping from the breeding cliffs in early July. Their average speed was 1.9 km h
3683197|The role of competition in a lacustrine community of two salmonid species, cutthroat trout Oncorhynchus clarki and Dolly Varden char Salvelinus malma, was studied in three coastal British Columbia lakes. Habitat use by the species alone (allopatric) and in coexistence with each other (sympatric) was investigated by gill netting at 0-40 m depth contours (surface to bottom) so that several habitats (littoral, epipelagic, pelagic, epibenthic) were sampled. From June to October, trout used mainly littoral and epipelagic habitats in sympatry and allopatry. Char used all habitats in allopatry, and deep habitats (pelagic, epibenthic) not frequented by trout in sympatry. The two species were thus spatially segregated with depth in sympatry. Diel (day, night) and seasonal changes (spring, summer, autumn) in habitat use were not pronounced. The shift in habitat use by experimentally allopatric char but not trout suggests that the effects of competition between sympatric trout and char for habitat resources are greater on the char.
30243220|Climatic change is expected to affect the extent and severity of geometrid moth outbreaks, a major disturbance factor in sub-arctic birch forests. Previous studies have reported that the two geometrid species involved, autumnal moth and winter moth, differ in their temperature requirements and, consequently, in their altitudinal and latitudinal distribution patterns. In this study, we document the altitudinal distribution of winter moth outbreaks in a large coastal area in northern Norway. We show that, in the present winter moth outbreak, defoliated birch stands were seen as distinct zones with a rather constant width in the uppermost part of the forest and where the upper limit coincided with the forest line. The outbreak zone closely followed the spatially variable forest line as an undulating belt, although some of the variation in outbreak zone width was also related to variation in topographical variables, such as distance from the coast, forest line altitude, and slope of the terrain. A distinct outbreak zone at the altitudinal forest line is the typical picture that has been depicted in more qualitative historical records on previous outbreaks of autumnal moth rather than winter moth. We suggest that the recent documented climate warming in this region may have induced a shift in distribution of the winter moth both relative to topography and geography. Further investigation is, however, required to substantiate these suspicions.
30244580|Disturbance has always shaped the evolution and ecology of organisms and nowhere is this more apparent that on the iceberg gouged continental shelves of the Antarctic Peninsula (AP). The vast majority of currently described polar biodiversity occurs on the Southern Ocean shelf but current and projected climate change is rapidly altering disturbance intensities in some regions. The AP is now amongst the fastest warming and changing regions on earth. Seasonal sea ice has decreased in time and extent, most glaciers in the region have retreated, a number of ice shelves have collapsed, and the surface waters of the seas west of the AP have warmed. Here, we review the influences of disturbance from ice, sedimentation, freshening events, wave action and humans on shallow water benthic assemblages, and suggest how disturbance pressures will change during the 21st century in the West Antarctic Peninsula (WAP) and Scotia Arc region. We suggest that the intensity of ice scouring will increase in the region over the next few decades as a result of decreased winter sea ice periods and increased ice loading into coastal waters. Thus, the most frequently disturbed environment on earth will become more so, which will lead to considerable changes in community structure and species distributions. However, as ice fronts retreat past their respective grounding lines, sedimentation and freshening events will become relatively more important. Human presence in the region is increasing, through research, tourism, and resource exploitation, which represents a considerable threat to polar biodiversity over the next century. Adapting to or tolerating multiple, changing environmental stressors will be difficult for a fauna with typically slow generation turnovers that has evolved largely in isolation. We suggest that intensifying acute and chronic disturbances are likely to cause significant changes in ecosystem structure, and probably a considerable loss of polar marine biodiversity, over relatively short timescales.
30244654|NeuralEnsembles is an integrated modeling and assessment tool for predicting areas of species habitat/bioclimatic suitability based on presence/absence data. This free, Windows based program, which comes with a friendly graphical user interface, generates predictions using ensembles of artificial neural networks. Models can quickly and easily be produced for multiple species and subsequently be extrapolated either to new regions or under different future climate scenarios. An array of options is provided for optimizing the construction and training of ensemble models. Main outputs of the program include text files of suitability predictions, maps and various statistical measures of model performance and accuracy.
30244526|Wood-feeding insects play important functional roles in forest ecosystems, contributing significantly to wood decay processes. However, sampling these species in a direct and quantitative way is difficult because they live most of their lives as larvae deep into the wood; knowledge of species-specific host-use patterns along the decay gradient is thus lacking in this group. To cope with these difficulties, we used a novel approach, snag dissection, to investigate occurrence patterns of such Coleoptera adults and larvae. We selected 80 snags of both black spruce and aspen along four classes of decay in five different stands distributed over the tree species' ranges within the province of Quebec, Canada, and dissected a one-meter section of each. All adults and larvae of Buprestidae, Cerambycidae and Scolytinae (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) were collected and identified to the lowest taxonomical level possible. Wood density and snag age were also calculated for each sampled snag. In black spruce, host-use was mostly concentrated at the beginning of the decay gradient. Patterns observed in aspen were opposite, as few insects were found in fresh snags, while most snags in middle to late stages of decay contained insects, often in large numbers, in some reaching densities of over 1000 cerambycid larvae m . For both tree species, patterns observed were similar across regions sampled. Differences in host-use patterns between the coniferous and deciduous host species may be due to differences in secondary chemistry, mechanical defence mechanisms or the stand dynamics typically associated with each tree species.
3683154|In summer 1990, we mist-netted bats on 35 net-nights, for 4 h each night, along tributaries of the River Rouge in surburban Detroit, Michigan, USA. The floodplains of these rivers are preserved as parkland. We compared elements of bat community structure in these urbanized park areas to that of rural areas. For the rural data set, we used mist-netting data obtained previously on 53 net-nights in southern Michigan using a similar protocol. Mean number of bats captured per night was lower in urban compared to rural areas (1.3 vs 4.6). Species diversity (Simpson Index) was lower in the city (0.53 vs 0.28) as was species evenness (0.66 vs 0.36). The big brown bat Eptesicus fuscus made up 65% of the catch in rural areas but 83% in the city. The red bat Lasirus borealis represented 18% of all bats in rural areas and 13% in the city. The proportion of sites where the big brown bat was captured was significantly lower in the city (51% vs 74%). The proportion of sites that yielded red bats also declined, from 52% along rural rivers to only 14% in the city. Sex ratio of adult big brown bats did not differ between urban (43% male) and rural (32% male) sites. The ratio of juvenile big brown bats to adult females was significantly lower in the city (1:21 vs 30:77). Our data suggest that urbanization is a threat to insectivorous bat communities and leads to decreased overall abundance, decreased species diversity, and possibly lower reproductive success of those that are present.
3683825|Spatial patterns are important to many ecological processes, and scale is a critical component of both patterns and processes. I examined the pattern and scale of the spatial distribution of infection of host plants by the desert mistletoe, Phoradendron californicum, in a landscape that spans several square kilometers. I also studied the relationship between mistletoe infection and seed dispersal. I found elevated seed rain in areas with a high prevalence of mistletoes and I found that a greater proportion of trees receive seeds than are infected, suggesting that mistletoes will be aggregated in space. Using nested analysis of variance and variograms, I found that mistletoe infections were distributed in hierarchical patches. Mistletoes were aggregated within trees and mistletoe prevalence was correlated at scales of < 1500 m, and at scales > 4000 m. Patterns at the largest scales were correlated with elevation: sites at higher elevations showed reduced mistletoe infection compared to those at lower elevations. I propose that at small scales, mistletoe distributions are primarily the result of aggregation of seed-dispersing birds, and that the elevational effect could reflect the recent colonization of higher elevations by the mistletoes' mesquite hosts or the limits of the mistletoes' physiological tolerance to freezing-induced cavitation.
3683847|We investigated the aquatic macroinvertebrate fauna of 76 ponds and small pools in an urban fringe landscape, and related the presence of ten species to measures of water permanence, pond area and environmental conditions using logistic models. The incidence of all the species was strongly associated with variation in hydroperiod, but patterns were more variable with the other explanatory variables. To determine whether the presence of a species at neighbouring ponds increased its probability of occurance at a pond we constructed a series of autologistic models, that differed from the aspatial logistic model in that they included a spatial autocovariate in the predictor terms. The improvement of model fit on inclusion of this autocovariate, measured as the decline in deviance compared to the aspatial models, was determined across a range of lag distances. In seven of the ten species, the autologistic models explained the incidence of the species amongst the ponds better than the aspatial models. Spatial effects were typically over short distances (<200 m) before declining, but in two species appeared to reach an asymptote, and we propose that variation in dispersal ability is the most likely factor producing these spatial effects. We conclude that it is essential that some measure of spatial autocorrelation is considered when evaluating the distribution of aquatic macroinvertebrates at small or medium scales.
3683601|Several studies have reported higher densities of white-footed mice in small fragments than in large fragments of eastern deciduous forests. The edge hypothesis states that higher densities in smaller fragments reflect an increase in relative amount of edge habitat, which supports higher densities of mice because of its higher quality. To test this hypothesis we live trapped white-footed mice along edge-to-interior gradients in forest fragments of east-central Illinois. Our results indicated a greater abundance of mice in the forest interior than near the edge, which did not support the edge hypothesis. This pattern could occur because dominant adults hold larger territories of higher quality habitat, thereby reducing density and increasing fitness near the edge (an ideal despotic distribution). We found some evidence of increased reproductive success (juveniles per female) at the edge, but this could reflect density-dependent demographic processes rather than habitat quality. Furthermore, other indicators of dominance (body weight, and reproductive activity) did not show an increase at the edge, and other studies indicate higher prevalence of natural enemies at edges, which could account for lower densities there. Reduced competition from larger rodents and reduced predation could cause higher densities in small fragments but the distributions of competitors and predators do not strongly support these hypotheses. We suggest two additional hypotheses that could account for greater densities in smaller fragments: 1) estimates of high densities could be artifacts of the large effect that a few captures can have on density estimates for very small fragments, and 2) densities in smaller fragments are overestimated because mice use a relatively larger area of surrounding habitat as fragment size decreases.
30244648|Many studies have investigated the potential impacts of climate change on the distribution of plant species, but few have attempted to constrain projections through plant dispersal limitations. Instead, most studies published so far have simplified dispersal as either unlimited or null. However, depending on the dispersal capacity of a species, landscape fragmentation, and the rate of climatic change, these assumptions can lead to serious over- or underestimation of the future distribution of plant species. To quantify the discrepancies between simulations accounting for dispersal or not, we carried out projections of future distribution over the 21st century for 287 mountain plant species in a study area of the western Swiss Alps. For each species, simulations were run for four dispersal scenarios (unlimited dispersal, no dispersal, realistic dispersal, and realistic dispersal with long-distance dispersal events) and under four climate change scenarios. Although simulations accounting for realistic dispersal limitations did significantly differ from those considering dispersal as unlimited or null in terms of projected future distribution, the unlimited dispersal simplification did nevertheless provide good approximations for species extinctions under more moderate climate change scenarios. Overall, simulations accounting for dispersal limitations produced, for our mountainous study area, results that were significantly closer to unlimited dispersal than to no dispersal. Finally, analysis of the temporal pattern of species extinctions over the entire 21st century revealed that important species extinctions for our study area might not occur before the 2080-2100 period, due to the possibility of a large number of species shifting their distribution to higher elevation.
30243246|Feral populations of crop species along roadsides contribute to the uncertainty regarding the containment of genetically modified (GM) crops, as the feral populations could promote the persistence of transgenes outside of cultivated fields. Roadside populations of several common crop species are known to occur far from arable fields, and the dispersal pathways that promote their recruitment in road verges are unclear. Human-aided dispersal, in particular adhesive dispersal by vehicles, has been suggested as a possible vector, but this has not yet been proven experimentally. We sampled the seed rain from vehicles inside two motorway tunnels in an urban environment to reveal the contribution of crop species to seeds unintentionally dispersed by traffic beyond agricultural production areas. Three species of arable crops, wheat Triticum aestivum, rye Secale cereale and oilseed rape Brassica napus, were among the most frequent species deposited by vehicles inside the motorway tunnels. Each of the three species was clearly more predominant in one direction of traffic. While seeds of Triticum aestivum and Secale cereale were primarily transported into the city, Brassica napus was significantly more abundant in samples from lanes leading out of the city. Seed sources in the local surroundings of the tunnels were virtually nonexistent, and the high magnitude of seed deposition combined with high seed weights suggests a dispersal mechanism different from other species in the sample, at least for Triticum aestivum and Secale cereale. This provides evidence that spillage during transport is a major driver for long-distance dispersal of crops. Our results suggest that seed dispersal by vehicles is the major driver in the recruitment of roadside populations of arable crops, providing a possible escape route for GM crops. Risk management should thus aim at curbing transport losses of GM crops.
3683802|A Norwegian program for extermination of (small game) predators (NPEP) was run during 1900-1914. This initiative is believed to have caused larger small game stocks and more regional synchrony in rodents. To investigate the effectiveness of the NPEP time series of predators bountied (1885-1914), rodent dynamics (1885-1914), ptarmigan hunting index (1885-1914 and 1900/1-1914), and willow ptarmigan and berry export statistics (1885-1914) were analyzed for three different regions: south, east and central Norway. In south and east Norway there were higher ptarmigan export in the period 1907-1914 than the years before, but not in central Norway. There was not bountied higher number of red fox, eagle or goshawk in any of the three regions when comparing years a) before and after 1900, and b) when comparing the periods 1900-1906 and 1907-1914. This suggests that predator removal was not the cause of increased ptarmigan export. The ptarmigan hunting index and rodent index for south and east Norway were correlated in the period 1885-1914, while the ptarmigan export from east Norway was correlated with berry export from the year before. However, for central Norway the rodent index was not correlated with the hunting index. There were cross correlation between berry and ptarmigan export with lag from minus one to nine years for south and east Norway. The NAO (North Atlantic Oscillation) - an indication of the winter weather variation - had higher values during 1900-1914 than 1885-1899, indicating moister and warmer winters in the last period. This analysis indicates that NPEP generally did not increase predator removal. The results suggest, however, that it was a series of years with high rodent density, that caused the increase in ptarmigan populations in south and east Norway, which, in turn, may have been caused by favourable weather conditions leading to among others good berry crops. Conclusions based on old data series must, however, be drawn with caution.
3683399|Geographic variation in tooth row counts among sand tiger sharks Carcharias taurus (Chondrichthyes), from the SW Atlantic, NW Atlantic and the East China Sea is analyzed in this paper. We found significant differences between sand tigers from the SW Atlantic (Southern Hemisphere population) and each of the other two (Northern Hemisphere) regions in the number of upper lateral tooth rows, and between individuals from the SW Atlantic and the East China Sea in the total number of upper tooth rows. Sand tiger sharks from the two Northern Hemisphere populations did not differ in any of the studied variables. Our results agree with comparisons of vertebral counts between sand tiger sharks from Southern and Northern Hemispheres. Both lines of evidence suggest that Southern and Northern Hemisphere populations of C. taurus were isolated to a larger extent than populations of the Northern Hemisphere. The fossil record of the genus Carcharias begins in the Early Cretaceous and C. taurus is certainly known since the Late Miocene. During the Miocene, the Tethys Sea separating northern and southern land masses was still present and it provided a continuous temperate shallow sea that could allow dispersal of sand tiger sharks along Northern Hemisphere seas. Independent observations on the distribution and evolutionary history of the genera Myripristis, Neoniphon, Sargocentron and Aphanius, and genetic studies on the temperate shark genus Mustelus that indicate a close relationship between the Indo-Pacific M. manazo and the Mediterranean M. asterias suggest that this hypothesis is plausible and deserves to be tested.
30244516|We pitfall-trapped carabid beetles across an urban-rural gradient in central Alberta, Canada to assess the relative contributions of landscape structure and habitat quality in explaining variation in composition of assemblages. The gradient ranged from the "urban" zone in the city of Edmonton, through a "suburban" zone just outside the city, into a "rural" zone 25-60 km east of the city. We trapped beetles at three replicated sites for each of two habitats (unmanaged grasslands and highly managed graveyards) in each of the three zones. Most of the 24 species (3162 individuals) captured were commonly associated with open habitats. Pterostichus melanarius, an introduced species, made up 80% of the total catch. Carabid assemblages of grasslands and graveyards were distinct, with lower species richness and lower catch rates of native, introduced and brachypterous carabids in graveyards. Graveyard assemblages also had proportionally fewer brachypterous carabid individuals (32 vs 52%) and species (20 vs 36%), suggesting that populations recruit locally from elsewhere after disturbances. Native carabids were least abundant in the urban areas. Brachypterous carabids were similarly abundant across the gradient, but more occurred in the urban zone than elsewhere (32 vs 5-10%). Samples from graveyards were characterized by lower beta diversity (variation among samples) than those from grasslands, but beta diversity was more-or-less equally variable across the gradient within habitats. The amount of unmanaged grassland habitat and the degree of urbanization significantly influence carabid assemblages, and therefore are relevant to management and conservation of urban grassland areas.
3683731|We investigated key habitat features used by beech martens occupying a fragmented agricultural landscape. Locations of eight martens were radio-monitored daily for 4-12 months each. We evaluated the selection of home ranges within a geographic area, as well as the selection of habitat features within home ranges, using random simulations for comparison. Home ranges included more wood and scrub vegetation, and less arable land, than random simulations. They also included a higher proportion of watercourses with continuous vegetation along their verges, and were closer to these watercourses than random simulations. Within home ranges, beech martens used wood and scrub vegetation, and farm buildings, more intensively than expected, and arable land less than expected. On average, beech martens stayed close to watercourses (where most of the wood vegetation occurred) but not to farm buildings, indicating that only the former shaped beech marten movements. By these findings, arable land appeared to act as a seldom traversed barrier, making farm buildings uneasy to reach if they are located far from watercourses.
3682881|Diets of raccoon dog, red fox and badger were studied in southern Finland from 1990 to 1996 by collecting faeces from dens and latrines during May-July of each year. The frequency of occurrence and relative volume of each food item in the faeces were calculated. The raccoon dog was the most and the red fox the least omnivorous of these carnivores, according to the diversity index. Diet composition of all these species varied among areas, indicating that they are opportunistic feeders. Mammals and birds constituted the bulk of the fox diet, while invertebrates, frogs and plants were most frequently eaten by the badger. The frequency of earthworms in badger faeces varied between 16 and 77%, according to area. Voles and shrews were important to the raccoon dog, but it also frequently consumed other food items. The food niches of the badger and the raccoon dog overlapped more than that of the red fox and other species. The red fox was more carnivorous and fed on larger prey items than the others, but the food composition of the red fox in the present study reflects the prey carried to the den for the pups; thus, the diet of adult foxes may be more similar to that of the raccoon dog. In conclusion, these 3 carnivores share many resources, suggesting that competition may occur among them; however, their diets also differ to some extent, which helps them to avoid competition. Furthermore, the badger and the raccoon dog are dormant during winter, when food is scarcest, which may be the reason why all these species can coexist in rather unproductive boreal forests.
3682912| A number of methods have been used for quantifying the sizes of the geographic ranges of species. The consequences of different levels of sampling (the proportion of actual spatial occurrences) are explored for eight of these, using data on the occurrences of butterfly species on a 10  10 km grid across Britain. For all methods, the percentage error of estimation (PEE) decreases with the number of 10  10 km squares which a species occupies, most rapidly for extent measures, and more rapidly for area measures than for measures of numbers of units occupied. The rate of decline in PEE itself falls as sampling effort increases. At a given sampling level, rank correlations between range sizes measured by different methods are generally high, but there is no consistent change in the magnitude of these correlations as the level of sampling increases. The composition of the set of species with the smallest range sizes changes with the level of sampling. 
30243124|We present data on the spatial distribution of Australian snubfin and humpback dolphins using boat-based line transect surveys in three adjacent bays located in the Far Northern Section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, northeast Queensland. We used Geographic Information Systems (GIS), and both randomization and Mantel tests to examine the relationship between the spatial distribution of the dolphins and three simple, readily quantified, environmental variables: distance to land, distance to river mouth, and water depth. Mantel tests allowed us to make clear inferences about the correlation of the species' distributions with environmental variables, while taking into account spatial autocorrelation and intercorrelation among variables. Randomization tests indicated snubfin and humpback dolphins occur closer to land than would be expected at random. Two-sample randomization tests indicated snubfin dolphins were found closer to river mouths than were humpback dolphins. Taking spatial autocorrelation into account, Mantel tests indicated all environmental variables were correlated with the spatial distribution of snubfin and humpback dolphins. Interspecific differences in spatial distribution appeared to be related to proximity to river mouths. Preference by snubfin and humpback dolphins for nearshore, estuarine waters is likely related to the productivity of these tropical coastal areas. This spatial analysis suggests that existing protected areas in this region may not include the most critical habitats for snubfin and humpback dolphins. The techniques used here shown relationships between the spatial distribution of the dolphins and environmental features that should facilitate their management and conservation.
3683549|It is suspected that feral American mink, an introduced predator in Europe, have seriously affected local densities of birds breeding in archipelagos and coastal areas. We studied the effects of mink removal on breeding densities of waterfowl in two manipulation and two control areas in the outer archipelago of SW Finland, Baltic Sea. The study was conducted in two phases: during 1992-2001 a total of 98 mink was removed from 60 islands and islets (total area
3683148| Differences in vascular plant species richness along the altitudinal gradient in the Aurland area of western Norway have been investigated. Based on field surveys, as complete lists as possible of all vascular plants have been compiled for each 100 m altitudinal band, from sea level to the highest mountain (1764 m). For each of the 18 altitudinal bands, climatic data have been estimated. A total of 444 vascular plant species were recorded. Highest species richness (263 species) occurred in the 600-700 m band, whereas the uppermost band had only 10 species. There are minor differences in species number between the altitudinal bands < 1000 m. Partial least squares regression shows that species richness for the overall altitudinal gradient is well predicted by mean July and January temperatures and mean annual precipitation. Species turnover is highest in the 100-200 m, 600-700 m, and 1400-1500 m altitudinal bands. In terms of the gradient in summer temperature, the study supports the generally assumed linear relationship between July temperature and the number of vascular plant species between 700 and 1500 m corresponding with a mean July temperature range of 7-11C. The study shows a decrease of ca 30 vascular plant species with a 1C decrease in mean July temperature, and that the "climatic vascular plant limit" is here estimated to occur at a mean July temperature of 2.4C. Above 1500 and below 700 m, species number is lower than expected based on summer temperature conditions alone. The 700-800 m band represents the highest floristic difference compared to the other bands. Ordination and classification analyses of the floristic compositional data of all the bands highlight the 600-800 and 1500-1600 m altitudinal bands as the major biotic boundaries along the gradient. No major discontinuity in species richness, composition, or turnover was consistently found, however, at the 1100-1200 m band representing the forest-limit ecotone in Aurland. 
20696286|Spatial fingerprints of climate change on tree species distribution are usually detected at latitudinal or altitudinal extremes (arctic or alpine tree line), where temperatures play a key role in tree species distribution. However, early detection of recent climate change effects on tree species distribution across the overall temperature gradient remains poorly explored. Within French mountain forests, we investigated altitudinal distribution differences between seedling ( 50 cm tall and > 1 yr old) and adult (> 8 m tall) life stages for 17 European tree taxa, encompassing the entire forest elevation range from lowlands to the subalpine vegetation belt (502250 m a.s.l.) and spanning the latitudinal gradient from northern temperate to southern Mediterranean forests. We simultaneously identified seedlings and adults within the same vegetation plots. These twin observations gave us the equivalent of exactly paired plots in space with seedlings reflecting a response to the studied warm period (19862006) and adults reflecting a response to a former and cooler period. For 13 out of 17 species, records of the mean altitude of presence at the seedling life stage are higher than that at the adult life stage. The low altitudinal distribution limit of occurrences at the seedling life stage is, on average, 29 m higher than that at the adult life stage which is significant. The high altitudinal distribution limit also shows a similar trend but which is not significant. Complementary analyses using modelling techniques and focusing on the optimum elevation (i.e. the central position inside distribution ranges) have confirmed differences between life stages altitudinal distribution. Seedlings optima are mostly higher than adults optimum, reaching, on average, a 69 m gap. This overall trend showing higher altitudinal distribution at the seedling life stage in comparison to the adult one suggests a main driver of change highly related to elevation, such as climate warming that occurs during the studied period. Other drivers of change that could play an important role across elevation or act at more specific scales are also discussed as potential contributors to explain our results.
3683540|Spatial heterogeneity of abiotic factors influences patterns of seedling establishment at different scales. In stress-prone ecosystems such as Mediterranean ones, heterogeneity generated by shrubs has been shown to facilitate the establishment of tree species. However, how this facilitation is affected by spatial scale remains poorly understood. We have experimentally analysed the consequences of the abiotic heterogeneity generated by pioneer shrubs on survival, growth and physiology of seedlings of three important tree species from Mediterranean mountains (Acer opalus ssp. granatense, Quercus pyrenaica and Quercus ilex). Patterns of abiotic heterogeneity and seedling performance were studied at two scales differing in grain: 1) the microhabitat scale, by using open interspaces as controls of the effect of different shrub species, and 2) the microsite scale, analysing the effects of fine-grain heterogeneity (within-microhabitat heterogeneity). Results showed that, at the microhabitat scale, seedling establishment of the three tree species significantly benefited from the modification of the abiotic environment by nurse shrubs. However, we found shrub-seedling interactions to be species-specific, due to differential modification of both aboveground (light availability) and belowground (soil compaction, water content, and fertility) abiotic factors by nurse shrub species. Heterogeneity at the within-microhabitat scale was rather high, although it did not significantly affect seedling performance of any of the tree species. The study demonstrates that the effects of the abiotic heterogeneity generated by shrubs are not consistent across the range of spatial scales considered. The regeneration niche of tree species becomes very complex at fine spatial scales, and thereby estimators of abiotic heterogeneity are valuable descriptors of spatial patterns of seedling establishment only when microsite "noise" is averaged out at greater scales.
3682980|Two species of speckled wood butterfly occur in Madeira. Pararge xiphia is endemic and is very similar in morphology, behaviour and general ecology to P. aegeria which was first recorded on the island in 1976. We collected behavioural data on the males of the two species at sites where the indigenous laurel forest meets non-native forest and agriculture. It is in these areas that the two species are found together in particularly high densities. Male Pararge butterflies defend sunlit areas of vegetation and attempt to exclude other butterflies. If a territorial intruder is a conspecific or the other Pararge species, extended chases or spiralling flights may take place. Interactions between the two Pararge species are longer and more likely to be escalated than those between either species and a range of other butterfly species. Pararge aegeria is more aggressive in its territorial behaviour than P. xiphia and the latter may be suffering more from the interactions. The results demonstrate that the two species are competing for space and, therefore, that territorial behaviour could be a mechanism by which interspecific competition could be taking place. Any adaptive explanation for the interspecific territoriality remains speculative but this recent, and probably natural, colonisation may provide an excellent opportunity to examine the role of interspecific competition in structuring communities. The arrival of P. aegeria on Madeira has created an almost unique natural experiment, the study of which will potentially avoid many of the problems traditionally associated with the study of competition.
3682802|Shifts in feeding habits are expected to occur during adaptation to cave life. Dolichopoda cave crickets inhabit both natural and artificial caves showing differences in population size, fecundity, phenology and age structure. Compared to artificial caves, typically holding a seasonal age structure, populations from natural caves maintain a constantly heterogeneous age structure. Faecal content analysis of 605 individuals from 24 natural and artificial cave populations, enabled us to characterize their trophic niche and to investigate its variation. The results of multivariate analyses and measures of niche breadth and niche overlap outlined differences in trophic resource exploitation between natural and artificial cave populations. Seasonal variation in diet occurred in both types of caves, and it was greater in artificial cave populations. However, within any season, differences in feeding habits between individuals were much greater in natural caves resulting in a wider heterogeneity in trophic resources exploitation. Such heterogeneity appears to be mainly due to differences in diet between individuals of different developmental stages. In fact, in a sample of 15 populations we found a positive, statistical significant correlation between niche breadth and heterogeneity in age structure. These data are discussed in a broader evolutionary context in order to understand the role of limited resources availability in shaping and maintaining heterogeneity in age structure of Dolichopoda populations.
3683291|What governs the size and location of seabird colonies has long intrigued population ecologists. Previous analysis of the distribution of colonies of four European seabirds revealed a spatial bias - large colonies occurred farther apart than expected by chance alone - suggesting that intraspecific competition for food supplies during breeding may regulate colony size. Here we use computer intensive statistics to show that a similar spatial bias exists in three burrow-nesting seabirds - Cassin's auklet Ptychoramphus aleuticus, rhinoceros auklet Cerorhinca monocerata, and ancient murrelet Synthliboramphus antiquus - nesting off the Pacific coast of Canada. Local habitat constraints explain much of the existing spatial bias: large colonies cannot fit on small islands, and large islands suitable for colonies tended to occur far apart. However, a residual spatial bias still remained for ancient murrelets and Cassin's auklets (but not rhinoceros auklets) after habitat constraints are built into the analysis, for which intraspecific food competition remains a plausible explanation.
30243162|Wetlands in many parts of the world are affected by fragmentation at multiple spatial scales. In Switzerland, most wetlands have been destroyed over the past two centuries and management of the remaining wetland reserves has intensified in the recent years leading to increased fragmentation of reed areas within reserves. Using four years of data on the reproductive performance of color-banded reed bunting Emberiza schoeniclus populations, we explored fragmentation effects on nest predation rates at four spatial scales ranging from the nest to the landscape scale. In the egg stage, predation rate was negatively related to vegetation cover, vegetation height and nest height, but positively linked to water cover and depth next to the nest (nest scale). Probability of predation declined with increasing size of reed patches containing the nests and distances of nests to the water and land sided reed edge, as well as with decreasing edge to area ratio (edge scale). There was a weak positive association between degree of fragmentation of reed patches within sites and nest predation rates (site scale). Finally, nest predation probability increased with distance to the nearest wetland (landscape scale). Jointly analyzing variables from different spatial scales revealed that a model combining variables from the nest, edge and landscape scale best explained predation probability in the egg stage. In the nestling stage, the single most important factor influencing nest predation probability was the distance to the nearest wetland (landscape scale), with nest predation decreasing with distance between sites. Our results show that the probability of nest predation in reed buntings is affected by fragmentation within and between wetland reserves and that the effects differ between breeding stages. Future management of wetland reserves should aim at sparing reed patches large and dense enough to provide safe nest sites for birds.
3683108|Lesser snow geese Anser caerulescens caerulescens from the western Canadian Arctic feed on underground parts of tall cotton-grass Eriophorum angustifolium during autumn staging on the coastal plain of the Beaufort Sea in Canada and Alaska. We studied revegetation of sites where cotton-grass had been removed either by human-imprinted snow geese or by hand to simulate snow goose feeding. Aerial cover of cotton-grass at sites (n = 4) exploited by human-imprinted snow geese averaged 60 and 39% lower than in undisturbed control plots during the first and second year after feeding, respectively. Underground biomass of cotton-grass stembases and rhizomes in hand-treated plots was 80 and 62% less than in control plots 2 and 4 yr after removal, respectively (
3683215|Persistence, the tendency of a species to remain in its original position and not to colonize new sites, is studied for the most abundant forest vascular plants (25 species in spruce forest and 7 in pine forest) in Solhomfjell, Gjerstad, S Norway. Data sets included presence/absence in 199 meso plots 1 m
3683334| Population dynamics, demography and home ranges of the Eurasian lynx Lynx lynx were studied in Biaowiea Primeval Forest (BPF,
30244661|The ecological theory of adaptive radiation states that differences in ecological circumstances among local populations are the cause of divergence that leads to speciation. The role of parasites in contributing to divergence has seldom been considered, despite their ubiquity and known selective effects. The potential for parasites to contribute to divergence between closely related taxa was examined by quantifying the variation in parasite burdens between sympatric three-spined stickleback species (Gasterosteus aculeatus complex) in two lakes in coastal British Columbia, Canada. In doing so the relative importance of geographical differences between lakes and trophic or microhabitat differences between species within lakes were evaluated. The entire metazoan parasite burdens of a total of 255 limnetic and benthic sticklebacks in Paxton and Priest lakes were assayed over five time points between spring and autumn. Despite their sympatric distributions, there were large differences in parasite burdens between benthic and limnetic sticklebacks within lakes and these were consistent across both lakes. In particular, limnetics suffered greater burdens of the parasites Schistocephalus solidus and Diplostomum scudderi and benthics had much higher burdens of parasitic glochidia (mollusc larvae). Parasite burdens also differed quantitatively between lakes, but in general such differenices were less pronounced than those between the stickleback species. The documented differences in parasite burdens between stickleback species have potential to contribute to divergent selection on life history, immunological and secondary sexual characters that could contribute to reproductive isolation between the species.
3683757|In natural as well as in cultural landscapes, disturbance and succession are responsible for the emergence and subsequent disappearance of suitable habitat patches. The dynamics of habitat patches has important consequences for the spatial structure and dynamics of regional populations. However, there are only few studies quantifying both patch dynamics and incidence of insect species in a dynamic landscape over several years. I studied the incidence and population dynamics of the leaf beetle Gonioctena olivacea in a system of dynamic patches of the host plant Scotch broom Cytisus scoparius. The incidence of the beetle was most strongly affected by patch area, whereas connectivity, patch quality, patch age, and landscape context had no or only a minor effect when analysed with logistic regression. The size of local beetle populations was highly fluctuating between the years; however, the population dynamics of the local populations was not synchronous. Adjacent patches did not show higher degrees of synchrony than patches separated by large distances. In the three years of study, local populations became extinct through demographic or environmental stochasticity and patch destruction. Each year >10% of the patches disappeared. The extinction rate of beetles in persistent patches was decreasing with increasing patch area. On the other hand, patches newly emerged and were rapidly colonized by the beetle. The colonization rate depended on patch connectivity. Obviously, Gonioctena olivacea was capable of persisting in this system with high turnover of patches owing to its high dispersal power.
3683156|Timing of larval periods of 9 species of amphibians (Hyla meridionalis, Pelobates cultripes, Discoglossus galganoi, Bufo calamita, Bufo bufo, Rana perezi, Triturus marmoratus, Triturus boscai, Pleurodeles waltl) was followed in 7 different years. Total larval season may last from autumn to summer, whereas in low rainy years it may last from late winter to summer. In rainy years, two species are early breeders, starting to breed in autumn, six species commonly start in mid-winter and one species always breeds later, in spring. The widest interannual variability in the onset and duration of larval season occurs in the earliest breeders. In general, the more rainy the autumn and the higher temperatures were reached, the earlier the season started. In contrast, duration of the season was not correlated with rainfall and temperature. Interannual variability is interpreted as the possibility of adjusting the reproduction of the species to the availability of breeding habitats, constrained by physiological features of the species and interspecific relationships.
30243244|Shifts between facilitation and interference and their importance in shaping plant population and community dynamics have received wide recognition. Nevertheless, the causes and spatio-temporal scales of these shifts are poorly understood, yet strongly debated. This study tested the hypothesis that age-related changes in canopy structure shift the effect of a nurse shrub on their protg from facilitation to interference, using as a model system the interaction between the dwarf shrub Sarcopoterium spinosum and conspecific new recruits, in the shrubland of the transition area between the Mediterranean and the semi-arid climatic zones of Israel. Foliation level (i.e. the percentage of canopy surface area covered with leaves), a measure of shrub canopy structure, increased with age. Shading level was significantly and positively related to foliation level. Densities of new recruits in the shrubland showed a unimodal response to canopy structure and cover: the highest densities were associated with canopies presenting low and medium foliation levels (providing 71 and 82% shade, respectively), while high foliation levels (93% shade) and open spaces among canopies were characterized by very low densities. A related field experiment using shading nets revealed that seedling survival rates followed a similar unimodal pattern, with the highest survival (ca 60%) detected in moderate shade (70%), twice as much as in full sun, and the lowest survival (ca 10%) observed in extreme shade (90%). These results support the study hypothesis on age-dependent interactions. Thus, in a semi-arid shrubland ecosystem, the transition of the "nurse shrub" from "young" to "old" stage can shift facilitation to interference. Hence, the age structure of established shrub populations determines a) the availability of suitable sites for seedling recruitment and b) the balance between facilitation versus interference effects on seedling establishment.
30244646|Plio-Pleistocene climate change may have induced geographic heterogeneity in plant species richness-environment relationships in Europe due to greater in situ species survival and speciation rates in southern Europe. We formulate distinct hypotheses on how Plio-Pleistocene climate change may have affected richness-topographic heterogeneity and richness-water-energy availability relationships, causing steeper relationships in southern Europe. We investigated these hypotheses using data from Atlas Florae Europaeae on the distribution of 3069 species and geographically weighted regression (GWR). Our analyses showed that plant species richness generally increased with topographic heterogeneity (ln-transformed altitudinal range) and actual evapotranspiration (AET). We also found evidence for strong geographic heterogeneity in the species richness-environment relationship, with a greater increase in species richness with increasing topographic heterogeneity in southern Europe (mean standardized local slope 0.610  0.245 SD in southern Europe, but only 0.270  0.175 SD in northern Europe). However, the local AET slopes were, at most, weakly different between the two regions, and their pattern did not conform to predictions, as there was a band of high local slopes across southern-central northern Europe. This band broadly matches the transition between the temperate and boreal zones and may simply reflect the fact that few species tolerate the boreal climate. We discuss the potential explanations for the contrasting findings for the two richness-environment relationships. In conclusion, we find support for the idea that Plio-Pleistocene climate change may sometimes affect current species richness-environment relationships via its effects on regional species pools. However, further studies integrating information on species ages and clade differentiation rates will be needed to substantiate this interpretation. On a general level, our results indicate that although strong richness-environment relationships are often found in macroecological studies, these can be contingent upon the historical constraints on the species pool.
3683753|Egg placement by herbivorous insects is an important step in their interaction with their host plants, and is the result of processes operating at different spatial and temporal scales. Although several studies have examined egg-placement patterns at different scales, this has rarely been achieved simultaneously using a multi-scale hierarchical approach. We studied egg placement in a rare European butterfly, Iolana iolas, whose larvae specifically feed on seeds of plants of the genus Colutea, using a hierarchical approach and Generalised Linear Mixed Modelling. The study was carried out in 2002 and 2003 in a ca <tex-math>$60\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area in southern Madrid province, Spain, where the host plant, Colutea hispanica, has a highly fragmented distribution. We monitored in detail 132 plants in 24 patches and estimated the abundance of butterflies over the whole reproductive period of C. hispanica. We measured phenological, morphological and landscape variables potentially affecting egg-placement at three hierarchical levels: fruit, plant and host plant patch. Using egg presence-absence on mature fruits as the response variable, we found that eggs were more likely to be laid on fruits aged 1-2 weeks at the middle of the flowering period (fruit level), on large plants with a small number of shoots at the base (plant level), and in well connected host plant patches (patch level). Our results suggest that egg-placement is a process determined by factors operating at different levels: fruit, plant and host plant patch. Because egg-placement studies are often made with spatially correlated data, neglecting their intrinsic hierarchical nature could lead to equivocal conclusions.
3683002|We examined the temporal variation in the relationships between the number of invertebrate species, and of total individuals, inhabiting clumps of the intertidal mussel Brachidontes rostratus and the area of the clumps. We collected clumps in four seasons - autumn, winter, spring and summer - from a rocky shore in south-eastern Australia. Positive curvilinear relationships between species number and area were recorded for all seasons but fewer species for a given area were found in autumn and summer compared with winter and spring. These species-area relationships were different from those predicted from a passive sampling model (Random Placement Model). Positive relationships between number of individuals and area were also recorded but these did not vary between seasons. There was no short-term difference (i.e. between phases of tide and day) in species or individual number in clumps. Seasonal variation, and small-scale spatial unpredictability, in recruitment patterns are potentially important determinants of species numbers in this system. The seasonal differences we have recorded for mussel clumps suggest that future studies on island systems, particularly in marine habitats, should consider temporal variation in species-area relationships and that conclusions from previous comparisons of species-area curves based on one-off sampling must only be tentative.
3683059| I investigated the impact of riparian vegetation type on stream invertebrate communities in six Danish forest streams during the period 1992-1993. Two of the streams ran through beech forest Fagus sylvatica, two through mixed, mainly deciduous forest, and two through conifer plantations. Algal biomass and detritus standing stock differed significantly depending on forest type: In mixed deciduous forest streams algal biomass was higher and detritus standing stock lower than in beech and conifer forest streams. Benthic invertebrate community composition was functionally similar in all streams, with detritivores comprising > 80% by numbers of the community. Grazer abundance was low in all streams. Shredder abundance in the four deciduous streams was significantly correlated to coarse detritus standing stock. When taking into account both quantitative and qualitative POM parameters for all six streams combined, shredder abundance correlated significantly to the amount of CPOM. There were significantly more invertebrates with a  2 yr life cycle in the conifer and beech forest streams than in the mixed forest streams, probably reflecting the larger and more stable food resource. For all streams combined there was a significant correlation between predator abundance and the abundance of potential prey. My findings suggest that Danish forest streams are regulated by "bottom-up control" at all trophic levels within the invertebrate community, and hence that forest type can structure benthic communities in forest streams. 
30243177|Whereas matrix management has recently been suggested as a useful tool in biodiversity conservation, patterns and processes within matrices remain unknown. We examined the effects of the loss and fragmentation (configuration) of original deciduous habitats on birds in larch plantation matrix in the winter and during the breeding season in a montane region in Nagano Prefecture, central Japan. Birds were counted using a plot-count method from 32 (winter) and 46 (breeding) matrix (plantation) sites with a range of surrounding habitat loss and fragmentation at a 1600-m scale. Birds were assigned to species groups based on ecological traits, and three groups for which larch plantation would function as low-quality matrix were analyzed. Bird occurrences were explained primarily by habitat structure. Although the effects of landscape structure were less than those of habitat structure, three of five groups across the two seasons experienced significant landscape effects. All effects were of habitat fragmentation (scatteredness of deciduous habitats), i.e. two groups (flycatchers in the breeding season and tree nesters in both seasons) frequently occurred in matrix surrounded by highly scattered deciduous habitats. However, most of these effects were confounded by local habitat structure. That is, the variation in bird occurrences explained purely by fragmentation variables was <6/0. Nonetheless, because these effects were marginally significant at p <0.10, there was some support for fragmentation effects after covariation with habitat structure was considered. Based on these results and associated theoretical studies, we hypothesized that habitat fragmentation leads to loss of individuals and is more important than habitat loss in landscapes with a structurally similar matrix. We also hypothesized that matrix within landscapes with highly scattered habitats should be managed with high priority.
30244617|Knowledge of the habitat requirements and suitable breeding areas of sea birds is crucial for their management and conservation. However, there are still few studies that have modelled the breeding distribution and abundance of colonial sea birds. In this study, we created predictive distribution models for a colonial species, the arctic tern Sterna paradisaea, using 14 environmental variables calculated for 525 islands in the Archipelago Sea in SW Finland. We modelled the occurrence (presence-absence) using generalised additive models (GAMs) and abundance (pair numbers/colony size) using hurdle models fitted with GAM. We tested for spatial autocorrelation in model residuals and evaluated the models on independent data. Critical factors influencing the occurrence of the arctic tern were the proportions of boulder or gravel and forest of island area, as well as island maximum elevation and area, such that the species seemed to prefer large and low islands with sparse vegetation. Abundance was influenced by the proportions of boulder or gravel and bare rock of island area, as well as exposure and island area. To some extent, different factors influenced the occurrence and the abundance. The evaluation results of the models were good, with an AUC value of 0.91 for the most accurate presence-absence model and a Pearson's correlation coefficient of 0.60 for the most accurate hurdle model. The predictive ability of the models increased when we removed islands with single or few breeding pairs from the data set. Although the hurdle models did not produce accurate pair number estimates, they indicated which islands are suitable for larger colonies. Abundance is a crucial factor for colonial species. This modelling technique can therefore be of great value for the conservation and management of the arctic tern and similar colonial species.
3682851|The diet of red fox Vulpes vulpes was investigated through analysis of 340 scats collected during 1992-1996 from moorland in south-west Scotland. Rodents, game-birds, lagomorphs, carrion and insectivores were the most frequently occurring food types. Fox diet and prey abundance were compared between heather dominant and grass dominant habitat types within the study area. Rodents were the most frequently occurring food type in each habitat and occurred in 63% of scats overall. Rodents occurred more often in scats from grass dominant sites while gamebirds and lagomorphs were more frequent in scats from heather dominant sites. The occurrence of rodents in winter fox scats increased with rodent abundance. In contrast, the occurrence of gamebirds in winter fox scats was unrelated to gamebird abundance but negatively related to rodent abundance. It appeared that foxes switched to gamebirds in years, or habitats, where rodents were uncommon.
30243114|We tested the influence of population density and of drought intensity (measured as the Gaussen Index in spring and summer of the year of birth) on winter body mass, hind foot length, and body condition of roe deer fawns. Body mass decreased with increasing density and increased with increasing Gaussen Index in summer, in a similar way for both males and females. Hind foot length of males showed the same response. On the other hand, hind foot length of females decreased with increasing density only after dry summers, hence when environmental conditions were very harsh. Body condition was affected neither by density nor by drought intensity. Our results indicate that body mass and size are much better indicators of phenotypic quality than body condition in roe deer. The sex-specific responses of body size to environmental conditions could correspond to a differential allocation in favour of daughters by heavier than average roe deer mothers.
3682807|At thirteen sites in northern and central Alaska, full factorial and partial factorial NPK fertilizer experiments were completed in wet and moist tundras. The effects of the fertilizers on N and P concentrations in leaves, leaf mass per tiller, tillering, and flowering of the dominant sedge species (Eriophorum vaginatum, E. angustifolium, and Carex aquatilis) were documented for 3-10 yr at each site. Almost all sites showed at least some response to the fertilizer treatment, but the specific treatments and elements that caused the responses varied greatly among sites. There also was no consistent difference in responses between wet and moist sites. There was, however, a consistent temporal pattern to the responses observed, starting with increases in N and P concentration in leaves in the year that fertilizer was added, followed by growth and tillering responses in the second year, and increased flowering in the third year. The increases in N concentration generally only appeared in the first year, while increased P concentrations were sustained for 3-4 yr. Effects of fertilizer on flowering were still significant after 6 years in some cases. Results are discussed in terms of the role of "nutrient limitation" in structuring arctic plant communities and determining their productivity following disturbance or fertilization.
3683768|We made several regionalizations of the Iberian Peninsula based on the distributions of the pteridophyte flora to see whether the regionalization depended on the type and scale of lattice or the similarity index considered. We used five types of lattice in which the scale also varied: river basins, mountains and plains, natural regions, physiographic and geological regions, and administrative provinces; and two similarity indices: those of Jaccard and of Baroni-Urbani and Buser. The regionalizations varied according to the type of lattice, the grain size, and the similarity index used. To assess the different regionalizations we used four methods: 1) the coefficient of variation of the size of sites in each lattice, 2) the bestblock method, which considers as the best lattice that which maximizes the number of matches between presences over all pairwise site comparisons, 3) the Mantel test, to assess the statistical significance of the regionalizations obtained, and 4) mapability, which considers the most contiguous regionalization to be the best. The best regionalization according to our four criteria was that based on administrative provinces and Jaccard's index. This yielded a small central region and three large regions: northern, western, and eastern.
3683106| We carried out a comparison among the floristic patterns of four different plant groups (palms, trees, melastomes and pteridophytes) in a lowland rainforest site in Peruvian Amazonia. The study site consisted of a mosaic of edaphic patches reflecting the different geological formations that can be found on the surface. We collected the data along a linear transect (500 m long, divided into 20  20 m or 5  20 m subplots), and recorded of the four plant groups all individuals that exceeded a minimum size limit predefined for each plant group. We also recorded the drainage conditions and soil type classes in each subplot of the transect. The results indicated that different plant groups can produce similar floristic patterns in local spatial scales, and that these patterns reflect similarities in edaphic conditions. All matrix correlations calculated between pairs of the four plant groups were positive and statistically significant. Floristic composition in all plant groups correlated with soil class, and to a somewhat lesser degree with drainage. These results imply that any one of the four plant groups could serve as a rough indicator of more general floristic patterns, and that even the inventory of a limited part of the flora can shed light on the floristic variation found in Amazonian forests. 
30243186|We studied frog biodiversity along an elevational gradient in the Hengduan Mountains, China. Endemic and non-endemic elevational diversity patterns were examined individually. Competing hypotheses were also tested for these patterns. Species richness of total frogs, endemics and non-endemics peaked at mid-elevations. The peak in endemic species richness was at higher elevations than the maxima of total species richness. Endemic species richness followed the mid-domain model predictions, and showed a nonlinear relationship with temperature. Water and energy were the most important variables in explaining elevational patterns of non-endemic species richness. A suite of interacting climatic and geometric factors best explained total species richness patterns along the elevational gradient. We suggest that the mid-domain effect was an important factor to explain elevational richness patterns, especially in regions with high endemism.
3683709| Latitudinal diversity gradients are a general feature of the terrestrial realm. Fewer studies have addressed marine habitats and those concerning soft sediments have not reported such consistent trends. This study investigates global patterns of macroinvertebrate -diversity in estuarine tidal flats. A literature search was conducted to collect data on species diversity as well as various physical, chemical and biological factors that may prove useful in investigating the cause of trends. Regression analysis revealed a significant association between latitude and diversity expressed as Simpson's index of concentration (
3683546|The purpose of this review is to clarify the concepts of bias, precision and accuracy as they are commonly defined in the biostatistical literature, with our focus on the use of these concepts in quantitatively testing the performance of point estimators (specifically species richness estimators). We first describe the general concepts underlying bias, precision and accuracy, and then describe a number of commonly used unscaled and scaled performance measures of bias, precision and accuracy (e.g. mean error, variance, standard deviation, mean square error, root mean square error, mean absolute error, and all their scaled counterparts) which may be used to evaluate estimator performance. We also provide mathematical formulas and a worked example for most performance measures. Since every measure of estimator performance should be viewed as suggestive, not prescriptive, we also mention several other performance measures that have been used by biostatisticians or ecologists. We then outline several guidelines of how to test the performance of species richness estimators: the detailed description of data simulation models and resampling schemes, the use of real and simulated data sets on as many different estimators as possible, mathematical expressions for all estimators and performance measures, and the presentation of results for each scaled performance measure in numerical tables with increasing levels of sampling effort. We finish with a literature review of promising new research related to species richness estimation, and summarize the results of 14 studies that compared estimator performance, which confirm that with most data sets, non-parametric estimators (mostly the Chao and jackknife estimators) perform better than other estimators, e.g. curve models or fitting species-abundance distributions.
3683673|Life history differentiation along climatic gradients may have allowed a species to extend its geographic range. To explore this hypothesis, we compared eleven Omocestus viridulus (Orthoptera: Acrididae) populations along an altitudinal gradient from 410 to 2440 m in Switzerland, both in the field and laboratory. In situ temperature records indicated a striking decline in available heat sums along the gradient, and field populations at high altitudes reached egg hatching and adulthood much later in the year than at low elevation. The reproductive period at high altitude is thus severely limited by season length, especially during a cool year. However, controlled environment experiments revealed that intrinsic rates of embryonic and juvenile development increased with the populations' altitude of origin. This countergradient variation is largely genetic and conforms to predictions of life history theory. No corresponding differentiation in the overwintering egg stage, a pivotal determinant of phenology, was found. This trait seems conserved within the gomphocerine grasshopper subfamily. Although we found evidence for altitudinal adaptation in development, the potential of O. viridulus to adapt to cool alpine climates appears restricted by a phylogenetic constraint.
3683438|Herbivorous vertebrates of arid regions are frequently faced with inadequate food quality, quantity or both. The time and energy devoted to foraging is vital to balancing their energy budgets. For desert ectotherms, a low metabolism should be advantageous, reducing their total energy requirement, but extreme ambient temperatures can strongly constrain these animals' activity periods. We provide the first data on the activity budgets, foraging behaviour and diet of a highly abundant, desert-dwelling, herbivorous ectotherm, the steppe tortoise Testudo horsfieldi. Extreme climatic conditions of Central Asia limit steppe tortoise's activity to only three months per year. They remain inactive most of their "active season" (90%), and spend very little time foraging (< 15 min per day). This suggests that steppe tortoises can satisfy their energy requirements with modest feeding efforts. Interestingly, steppe tortoises avoid feeding on grass species and feed mostly on plant species that are usually highly toxic to mammals. This result suggests that steppe tortoises and ungulates do not compete for food.
3683566|Several explanations have been given for the decline in species richness with altitude. However, separating the influences of altitude, area, and isolation is difficult because of the conical shape of mountains. We used species lists of aquatic plants from > 300 lakes in a small geographical area to investigate the influence of altitude on species richness. Altitude and/or surface area were better predictors of species richness than any measure of water chemistry. The surface area and depth of individual lakes were not related to altitude, neither was the degree of isolation from other waterbodies. Although species range size increased with altitude, range sizes of all but the rarer species (in the data set) encompassed the lowest altitudes, indicating species loss rather than turnover and no influence of the Rapoport rescue effect. Nevertheless we found a decline in species richness with altitude, additive to the effect of area. Species were ascribed to attribute groups according to an a priori classification based on morphological and life-history traits. The number of attribute groups and number of species within each group increased with area, suggesting both increased diversity and coexistence within niches. With altitude, the number of attribute groups declined, but the number of species per group increased, consistent with a loss of richness and reduced competition. The species remaining at high altitudes were characterised by stress tolerant traits, associated with sites of low productivity. Our results suggest an absolute effect of altitude on species richness, irrespective of other influences and consistent with a decline in productivity.
3683617|Thalassodendron ciliatum shoots were collected from natural populations of fished and unfished protected seagrass meadows to assess the herbivory of fish and sea urchins. Fish herbivory was restricted to unfished seagrass meadows, while sea urchin herbivory took place in fished as well as unfished areas where fish appeared not to be effective urchin predators. The results of this study confirm that grazing by sea urchins is important in tropical seagrass ecosystems and indicate that herbivorous fish graze, and probably consume, substantial amounts of seagrass production in fishing-protected habitats. The fact that much of the information on seagrass herbivory comes from heavily-fished meadows indicates that large-scale studies, which include unfished areas, are necessary to provide reliable spatial patterns of seagrass grazing distribution.
20696290|Livestock predation and associated human-carnivore conflicts are increasing worldwide and require the development of methods and concepts for risk assessment and conflict management. Here we use knowledge on habitat preference and distribution of pumas and provide a first assessment of the spatial risk of livestock to puma depredation in Patagonian ranches, Argentina. In an initial step, we developed a rule-based habitat model in a Geographic Information System (GIS) to predict the distribution of puma habitat at a regional scale in Patagonia. We then used empirically derived puma occurrence records from Patagonian ranches 1) to test our regional habitat predictions, and 2) to evaluate if paddock characteristics (vegetation cover, topography, and distance to roads) contribute to explain puma occurrences within ranches. Finally, we simulated three livestock management scenarios differing in their spatial and seasonal allocation of livestock to paddocks, and compared the likelihood of livestock exposure to pumas among scenarios. At a regional scale, 22% of the study region was predicted to be suitable for puma home ranges. The greatest uncertainty in these predictions resulted from assumptions on woody vegetation cover requirements at the home range scale. Within ranches, puma occurrences were positively associated with paddock topography, woody vegetation cover on paddocks, and proximity to predicted regional puma habitat. Comparing the risk of predation by puma among simulated livestock management scenarios implied that rotating livestock during seasons may help to reduce the likelihood of livestock exposure to pumas. Our results show the usefulness of rule-based habitat models for describing broad-scale carnivore distributions and for aiding risk assessments to mitigate conflicts between predators and human activities.
3683324|Migration rate is often thought to be affected by species' distribution, abundance, body size, and niche width, but empirical results are controversial and fragmentary. In this study we examined these relationships in a large assemblage of noctuid moths. Migration rate was measured using two approaches, directly with a mark-recapture study in a network of small islands, and indirectly on the basis of the occurrence of moths outside their breeding habitat. The effects of the factors assumed to affect migration rate were adjusted for taxonomy using a simple yet novel approach based on logistic regression. Both with and without adjusting for taxonomy, the results indicate that abundance and body size influence migration rate, that the effects of abundance and body size have a negative interaction, and that the effects of ecological specialization on migration rate are evident (monophagous species migrate less than oligophagous or polyphagous species). The incidence of island or habitat patch occupancy was not affected by body size, most likely because body size has several contrasting consequences on the processes that determine island occupancy. Migration rate appears to be an evolutionarily labile character, which can readily transform in different phylogenetical lineages of moths.
3683696|In European ground squirrels Spermophilus citellus as in many ground squirrel species, late born litters are composed of fewer young than early born litters. Two alternative though not mutually exclusive hypotheses may explain this seasonal pattern of change in litter size. On the one hand, the production of few large young late in the season may be an adaptation to time limitations on the offspring, that have to complete growth and fattening prior to hibernation. Then one would expect a trade-off between offspring number and size as the breeding season progresses. At its extreme, this hypothesis would predict that total maternal effort should be equal independent of litter size. Alternatively, litter size may be determined by physiological limitations on the mother, in that highly constrained mothers breed later and produce smaller litters. Then one would expect reduced overall maternal effort in highly constrained mothers of smaller litters. In this case, a trade-off between litter size and offspring size would not be expected. We found that total maternal effort in terms of gestation length and the duration of lactation increased with increasing litter size, thus supporting the second hypothesis. Lactation was not terminated at natal emergence. It extended a relatively long period of time beyond the time of first litter emergence depending on litter size. During prolonged lactation, individual young of large litters made up body mass to young of small litters. As a consequence, juvenile weaning body mass was unaffected by litter size although offspring body mass at natal emergence was inversely related to litter size. This additional weight gain in young of large litters compensated for initial survival disadvantages and presumably affected fecundity at yearling age.
3683786|We compared the performance of four logistic regression models of different complexity with different environmental data quality, in predicting the occurrence of 49 terrestrial mollusc species in southern Sweden. Performance of models derived from an explanatory data set was evaluated on a confirmatory data set. The overall predictive success of our models (> 80% for the three best model approaches), is as good as in other studies, despite the fact that we had to transform a text database into quantitative habitat variables. Simple models (no variable interactions), with forward selection, and detailed habitat data (from field visits) showed the best overall predictive success (mean = 84.8%). From comparisons of model approaches, we conclude that data quality (map-derived data vs habitat mapping) had a stronger impact than model complexity on model performance. However, most of these models showed relatively low values (mean = 0.29) for Kappa (statistic for model evaluation), suggesting that the models need to be improved before they would be applied. Predictive success was strongly associated with species incidence but also Kappa was positively correlated with species incidence in univariate tests. Predictive success for true absences was negatively correlated with predictive success for true presences <tex-math>$({\rm R}^{2}=0.69)$</tex-math> and most models failed to give a good prediction of both categories. Models for species with a high incidence in "Open dry sites" or "Mesic interior forests" had a better performance than expected, suggesting that occurrences of species with preference for "narrow" habitats are most easy to predict. Tree layer variables (openness and species abundance) were included in 48 of the 49 final predictive models, suggesting that these variables were good "indicators" of habitat conditions for ground-living molluscs. Twenty-four species models included distance to coast and altitude, and we interpret these associations as partly being related to differences in climate. In the final models, true presences (36.9% correctly classified) were much more difficult to predict than true absences (89.7% correct). Possible explanations might be that important habitat variables (e.g. chemical variables and site history) were not included. On the other hand, all suitable sites would not be expected to be occupied due to dynamics in local extinctions (meta-population theory).
3683817|The present study aimed at exploring the long-term impact of pure and mixed beech Fagus sylvatica and oak Quercus robur stands on the forest floor by documenting changes in the herb species' behaviour and in humus index across a 200-yr chronosequence of forest stands. The research was conducted in central Belgium, in a 4383 ha beech-dominated forest. Analyses were carried out in stands which are replicated, of the same age, managed in the same way, and growing on the same soil type with the same land-use history. The results of this study indicate that stand aging is an important determinant of herb species occurrence in the studied area. Most of the species studied show a different response to stand age in pure compared to mixed stands. Our results clearly show a decrease of the humus quality with age in pure stands (beech as well as oak). On the other hand, we found that mixing beech and oak maintained or improved the humus status along the chronosequence according to the proportion of each tree. So the addition of some oak to the beech made it possible to keep a constant quality of the humus. We found that, even if the understory tree species is very scarce, it may be sufficient to maintain the humus status on the long term. In the present study, a cover of 1% oak in a beech stand was sufficient to show an effect of the minor species on these soils. This pattern contrasts with the widespread idea that substantial effects of the minor tree species on soils might not develop if the ratio of major/minor species is low.
30244639|Global climate change can fundamentally alter disturbance regimes across landscapes, but little is known about how species adjust their life histories to shifts in disturbance regimes. In plants, dispersal by seeds may permit rapid re-colonization under frequent disturbances, but often seed-dispersing animals may be absent and local dispersal by vegetative diaspores may be a more efficient means of occupying open space in the vicinity of the plant. We tested the effect of disturbances due to inundation on the investment in seed production by the ant-dispersed plant, Ranunculus ficaria ssp. bulbifer. During seed ripening we collected 392 plants within a landscape mosaic of 39 sites with different levels of inundation. We measured the mass of fruits and other tissues (leafs, roots, bulbils, stalks) and described plant growth form. We found that fruit numbers and masses were more variable among plants than numbers and masses of other tissues. We then standardized fruit niass against the mass of other tissues and other growth-form parameters. Standardized fruit mass showed a highly significantly hump-shaped relationship with the level of inundation disturbances. This pattern was consistent across 12 small-scale transects and thus not confounded by spatial autocorrelation within landscapes. The pattern was also confirmed by analyses that simultaneously accounted for disturbance and morphological co-variables. We thus conclude that plants invested most heavily into reproduction by seeds under intermediate levels of disturbance. Under intermediate disturbance, seeds are beneficial for rapidly re-colonizing open space after disturbance while the seed-dispersers are still available. The life history of mutualists such as ant-dispersed plants and ants may thus change across a landscape, reflecting small-scale variation in the disturbance regime.
3682991|Seedling emergence, survival, growth, and juvenile development of Fraxinus excelsior were followed over 10 yr in permanent plots in a dense Alnus-Fraxinus woodland in the outer archipelago of Stockholm, Sweden. Number of germinated seedlings varied between years due to variation in total seed crop, but was also affected by weather conditions. Seedlings and juveniles showed high survivorship. 39.2% of the emerged seedlings of the two oldest cohorts were alive in the 9th growth season. Mortality was somewhat raised during the first two years, but was age-independent from the third year. The density of the field-layer and climatic factors were the most important determinants of mortality. The juveniles produced 1.2 pairs of leaves per year and had an annual height increment of 7.1 mm, on average, from their second growth season. The ontogenetic development, e.g. the increase in leaf complexity, was correspondingly slow and included regressions to more simple leaves. Fraxinus excelsior shows a regenerative strategy involving persistent juveniles. The divergence between this and previous studies may be due to the lack of rabbit grazing.
3683304|Patterns in species composition of small mammals on islands of northwestern Lake Huron, USA, were studied to test the hypothesis that insular community structure was strongly influenced by immigrant selection; i.e., selection for the more vagile species. Of 17 insectivores and rodents in the mainland pool, nine were detected on at least one of the 25 islands studies. These species comprised a biased subset of the mainland pool, biased in favor of species with relatively good winter immigration abilities. The five true hibernators were absent from all islands studied, and the two winter-inactive species occurred on just two islands. Frequency of insular occurrence increased with level of winter activity (hibernator vs winter-inactive vs winter-active) and with body size (p < 0.02). The winter filtering effect remains one of the best documented forms of immigrant selection. In general, however, insular community structure is influenced by the combined effects of selective extinction as well as selective immigration. Common insular species are those which combine relatively high immigration abilities with low resource requirements.
3683718|The locations of biome transitions and ecotones are frequently defined by the rapid shift from one form of dominant vegetation to another. The composition of animal taxa is predicted to shift in parallel with that of dominant plants and species diversity is predicted to be greater in transitional zones than in adjacent areas. We asked whether ant species diversity and composition supported these predictions across a biome transition between shortgrass steppe and Chihuahuan desert vegetation. Neither species richness nor diversity was highest at the biome transition region as a whole, or within habitats in the biome transition. The biome transition region was not intermediate in ant species composition or in the representation of different faunal complexes. The community similarity between matched habitats shared between the biome transition zone and adjacent regions was less than that between distinct habitats occurring within regions. A zoogeographic transition for ants may occur to the north of the phytogeographic transition and may be coincident with the northern limits of monsoonal precipitation patterns. In contrast, the phytogeographic transition may be related to less extreme climatic variation within the monsoonal region occurring further south.
3683859|Metapopulations of Daphnia longispina, D. magna and D. pulex on 16 islands containing 507 rock pools were studied over 17 yr (autumns 1982-1998). Two yearly samples were taken representing early and late summer conditions. A local extinction was assumed when a species was absent from a pool for more than one year. Average yearly extinction rates, calculated from probability of survival in age grouped data, were close to 20%, and number of extinctions was on average balanced by the number of colonizations. Extinction rates during the first year following colonization were 45-50% in all species, but later decreased to low values. In first-year data, single species populations of D. magna had lower extinction rates than in multi-species pools. In later years all species combinations had similar extinction rates. The average proportion of rock pools occupied by D. longispina in any given year was 0.178, by D. magna 0.169 and by D. pulex 0.056. In 22% of cases, coexistence was observed. 71% of the pools were colonized at least once. The distribution of shortest colonization distances was left-skewed, and median distances (7-8 m) were same in all species. The distribution of colonizations mostly corresponded to the expected frequencies calculated as the product of frequencies of source and target pools. Both D. longispina and D. magna colonized pools already occupied with a somewhat higher probability than empty pools. Probably owing to variation of habitat quality, Daphnia populations in some rock pools appear to be less prone to extinction, providing sources of dispersal to patches with higher extinction risk. The system appears to be at an approximate equilibrium, with several characteristics close to classical metapopulation system.
3683545|The population dynamics of the epiphytic bromeliad, Werauhia sanguinolenta, growing in the moist tropical forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panama, was studied for seven years from 1997 through 2004. In contrast to the generally held notion of the great importance of moisture availability for growth and survival of vascular epiphytes, no demographic process showed a significant correlation with the amount of annual precipitation or the varying number of rainy days per year. Most deaths, for example, were rather related to substrate instability (tree falls, branch breakage, or flaking bark) in all but the smallest size classes. We found evidence for both competition and facilitation. Elasticity analysis revealed that the finite rate of population increase, which invariably exceeded unity, was mostly influenced by survival (stasis) and to a lesser extent by growth, and very little by fecundity. In contrast to earlier reports on disastrous outbreaks of herbivores in this epiphyte species, the long-term impact of herbivory on the population dynamics of W. sanguinolenta was negligible. Being at least facultatively autogamous, reproduction seems to be controlled by resource availability alone: this is suggested by long intervals between reproductive events, and a decrease in size and an increased mortality after reproduction. We conclude that the demography of this epiphytic bromeliad is probably influenced at least as much by biotic factors (i.e. the dynamics of the substratum) as by abiotic limitations.
30244655|International air travel has played a significant role in driving recent increases in the rates of biological invasion and spread of infectious diseases. By providing high speed, busy transport links between spatially distant, but climatically similar regions of the world, the worldwide airline network (WAN) increases the risks of deliberate or accidental movements and establishment of climatically sensitive exotic organisms. With traffic levels continuing to rise and climates changing regionally, these risks will vary, both seasonally and year-by-year. Here, detailed estimates of air traffic trends and climate changes for the period 2007-2010 are used to examine the likely directions and magnitudes of changes in climatically sensitive organism invasion risk across the WAN. Analysis of over 144 million flights from 2007-2010 shows that by 2010, the WAN is likely to change little overall in terms of connecting regions with similar climates, but anticipated increases in traffic and local variations in climatic changes should increase the risks of exotic species movement on the WAN and establishment in new areas. These overall shifts mask spatially and temporally heterogenous changes across the WAN, where, for example, traffic increases and climatic convergence by July 2010 between parts of China and northern Europe and North America raise the likelihood of exotic species invasions, whereas anticipated climatic shifts may actually reduce invasion risks into much of eastern Europe.
3683080|The area of occupancy of a species and its abundance are dependent on the spatial scale at which they are measured. However, it is less obvious how the scale of sampling affects their correlation. This study investigated and modeled the effects of sampling unit size and areal extent on the interspecific occupancy-abundance relationships for a tropical tree species assemblage at a local scale and a temperate bird species assemblage at a regional scale. The results showed that both sampling unit size and study extent had profound quantitative effects on the occupancy-abundance relationship, although it remained positive. Several properties of the occupancy-abundance relationship can result from the effects of scale: 1) the linearity of the relationship decreases with the increase of sampling unit size; 2) for a given abundance, the area of occupancy increases with sampling unit size; and 3) variation in the area of occupancy increases with the increase of both sampling unit size and extent, and if the extent is large enough may be sufficient that no occupancy-abundance relationship is observed. Although the occupancy-abundance relationship can be satisfactorily modeled, the parameters depend on the scale used. This suggests that a model derived from one scale cannot be applied to another. In other words, to estimate the rarity or commonness of species using such a model, the estimation must be strictly done using the same sampling scale for all the species.
3683661|A large number of methods for the analysis of the spatial structure of natural phenomena (for example, the clumping or overdispersion of tree stems, the positions of veins of ore in a rock formation, the arrangement of habitat patches in a landscape, and so on) have been developed in a wide range of scientific fields. This paper reviews many of the methods and describes the relationships among them, both mathematically, using the cross-product as a unifying principle, and conceptually, based on the form of a moving window or template used in calculation. The relationships among these methods suggest that while no single method can reveal all the important characteristics of spatial data, the results of different analyses are not expected to be completely independent of each other.
3683372|The incidence of eight species of microcrustacea and seven species of Dytiscidae (adults) was recorded from 30 small, temporary pools, in January and early summer, over six years. Incidence of each species, both in January and in summer, was modelled using logistic regression. Three categories of predictor variables were included in the models. Firstly systematic environmental variables; length of previous summer's dry phase, inter-pond links caused by flooding, distance between ponds and macrophyte structural density. Secondly temporal factors; year and previous incidence. Thirdly individual ponds, representing patch-specific effects. Logistic regression provided effective models of incidence for most species. However individual species varied in the factors that provided significant prediction of presence and absence. Systematic, temporal and patch-specific predictors were all significant predictors for different species of both microcrustacea and Dytiscidae. No single factor dominated most models. Individual factors showed positive or negative relationships with incidence with different species. Length of previous summer dry-phase was the most common predictor for microcrustacea and beetles in January. Summer models were more varied; length of previous dry phase and flood linkage between ponds and macrophyte density were significant predictors in many models, year and distance less important. Patch-specific predictors were significant for five of the microcrustacea and four of the beetles. The results suggest that individual species show idiosyncratic responses to systematic, temporal and patch-specific factors, rather than most species responding in a similar way to one or two dominant influences.
3682943| Passive cloches were deployed at three altitudinally distinct sites on Signy Island, maritime Antarctica, to investigate the effect of ameliorated thermal environment upon fellfield microarthropod communities. Temperature was monitored at 1.5 m height, at ground surface level, and at 5 cm depth in cloche and control plots. During summer (December - March), cloches elevated monthly mean temperatures by up to 2.46C at the soil surface and 2.20C at 5 cm depth. Integrated air temperatures over consecutive 10 d periods were up to 4.65C warmer in cloches than controls. During winter (April - November), snow cover of the fellfield sites buffered temperature variation and reduced the treatment effect. After eight years of these manipulations, sampling of the upper 50 mm of soil revealed consistently greater microarthropod populations within cloches than in controls (treatment effect: p < 0.05). Maximum difference occurred at high altitude where thermal amelioration was greatest (site effect: p < 0.05). Cloche populations of the numerically dominant collembolan Cryptopygus antarcticus Willem contained an increased proportion of small (length < 750 m) individuals. No species new to Signy Island were recorded. Relating these microarthropod populations to the ameliorated thermal environment suggests that Antarctic invertebrate communities may respond to global warming, as predicted by global circulation models, with an increase in abundance with little increase in diversity. However, this response could be indirect, the intermediate controlling factor being the percentage cover of the soil surface by vegetation, itself a function of climate change. 
30243263|Rising temperatures and agricultural changes (intensification and succession on fallow land) during the last few decades have caused a strong decline of moist and cool sites on nutrient-poor grasslands and species depending on these habitats. We tested the effects of habitat deterioration on a local and regional scale in such a species, the highly endangered butterfly Lycaena helle, which was more widely distributed over central Europe during the postglacial period, but has recently become restricted to some remnants. We analysed five polymorphic microsatellite loci in 220 individuals sampled at ten different localities. The study sites in Germany, Luxembourg and Belgium are geographically split into three mountain regions: the Ardennes, the Eifel and the Westerwald; the latter is separated from the other two by the river Rhine. A comparatively high genetic diversity was detected in all local populations and genetic differentiation was found among the Ardennes, the Eifel and the Westerwald $(F_{CT}:0.084)$ . The genetic differentiation among all populations $(F_{ST}:0137)$ underlines natural and anthropogenic habitat fragmentation. While ongoing gene flow seems to exist among the Eifel populations indicating the only intact metapopulation, a high genetic differentiation in the Ardennes and the Westerwald indicates a disruption of population connectivity. Our genetic data obtained on different spatial scales show the genetic consequence of long-term isolation and should trigger necessary conservation measures at the metapopulation level.
3682804|The patterns of repositioning by wind and water following their initial dispersal from the parent plant, of winged and unwinged seeds of the heteromorphic halophyte Spergularia salina were investigated experimentally in both dense vegetation and bare ground under field conditions in a sea shore meadow in eastern Sweden. Seeds were placed in situ in the field, and after four days with wind as the sole dispersing agency, 19% of the seeds were repositioned. After another 11 days, during which both wind and water acted as dispersing agencies, all seeds of both types had either become repositioned and were still visible (1/3 of the seeds), had penetrated into the ground at the point of release or after dispersal (1/3), or were not recovered (1/3). The probability to become lifted secondarily by water was similar in both seed types. Of those seeds repositioned and recovered on the ground, more of the winged type had been transported any distance horizontally than the unwinged type. The seed dispersal curve was strongly skewed to the left, and the winged seed type was transported slightly further than the unwinged type, both during primary and secondary dispersal. All seeds were transported further when placed on bare soil than when placed in dense vegetation. Vertical transportation was quicker in dense vegetation, and unwinged seeds were more frequently encountered in the seed bank than winged seeds, whereas in the absence of vegetation cover, seeds of both types recovered in the soil were found in equal shares.
3683171|The detailed forms of species-range size distributions in Britain are determined and contrasted for ten taxonomic assemblages (liverworts, vascular plants, molluscs [aquatic and terrestrial], dragonflies, macro-moths, butterflies, birds [breeding and wintering], mammals). All are strongly right-skewed when range sizes are untransformed. A logarithmic transformation fails to normalise the distribution for all but one group, and the distributions for several groups are not readily normalised at all. Taxa with larger median range sizes have species-range size distributions that are less strongly right-skewed. The median observed range sizes of species in each of the taxonomic groups fall, in terms of decreasing range size, in the sequence wintering birds > breeding birds > mammals > butterflies > terrestrial molluscs > dragonflies > aquatic molluscs > vascular plants > moths > liverworts. Despite the difficulties in deriving a simple and sensible mechanistic model for range size distributions, this is likely to be the most important next step towards understanding their forms.
30244544|RangeModel is a computer application that offers animated demonstrations of the mechanism behind the mid-domain effect. The program also provides analytical tools for the assessment of geometric constraints in empirical datasets for one-dimensional domains (transects). The mid-domain effect (MDE) is the increasing overlap of species ranges towards the center of a shared, bounded domain due to geometric boundary constraints in relation to the distribution of range sizes, producing a peak or plateau of species richness towards the center of the domain. Domains may be spatial, temporal, or functional. RangeModel is a stand-alone, graphical-interface, freeware application for PC and Mac OS platforms.
30244564|We investigated how landscape affects the population genetic structure and the dispersal of the elusive European otter Lutra lutra in a contemporary colonization context, over several generations and at the level of hydrographic basins. Our study area included 10 basins located in the Cvennes National Park (CNP), at the southern front of the natural otter recovery in France. Each basin comprised 50 to 300 km of permanent rivers that were surveyed for otter presence from 1991 to 2005. Faecal samples collected in 2004 and 2005 in this area were genotyped at 9 microsatellite loci, resulting in the identification of 70 genetically distinct individuals. Bayesian clustering methods were used to infer genetic structure of the populations and to compare recent gene flow to the observed colonization. At the regional level, we identified 2 distinct genetic clusters (NE and SW; FST = 0.102) partially separated by ridges, suggesting that the CNP was recolonized by 2 genetically distinct otter populations. At the basin level, the genetic distance between groups of individuals in different basins was positively correlated to the mean slope separating these basins. The probable origins and directions of individual movements (i.e. migration between clusters and basin colonization inside clusters) were inferred from assignment tests. This approach shows that steep and dry lands can stop, impede or divert the dispersal of a mobile carnivore such as the otter.
3683134|The effects of ten different management regimes on the abundance and species richness of Araneae on pre-existing and newly expanded zones of field margins surrounding arable fields are compared in a large-scale experiment conducted between 1987 and 1991. Most of the management regimes involved varying the timing and frequency with which the field margins were cut. There was no evidence of consistent temporal trends in the abundance and species richness of Araneae on either the existing or expanded zones of the field margins during the first four years of the experiment. However, lowest numbers were recorded before expansion of the margins in 1987, and highest numbers in the final sample, in 1991. Araneae remained less abundant, and less species rich, on the newly expanded than on the existing zones of the field margins four years after they were 'set-aside'. Cutting reduced both abundance and species richness. Regimes which included cutting in mid-summer had a greater impact which persisted for longer than did those involving cutting in spring and autumn. Removal of cut material was associated with lower species richness than leaving it in situ. Sowing the margins with a wild flower seed mixture was associated with increased abundance and species richness of Araneae. Annual spraying with a broad-spectrum, non-persistent herbicide reduced the abundance of Araneae but the effect was not detectable until several months after the application of the spray. Both the species richness and abundance of Araneae were positively correlated with a measure of vegetation height made on the field margins in September, on both the pre-existing and newly expanded zones of the margins. The extent to which management practices which benefit Araneae are compatible with both the management requirements for various other taxa, and the overriding constraint of effective pernicious weed control on field margins, is discussed.
3683184|Samples of Hemiptera were collected at sixteen naturally vegetated derelict sites using both suction apparatus and beating bags. Sample sites were chosen to provide a broad range of vegetation types, representing changes in successional stage and soil pH. Hemipteran diversity indices were significantly correlated with site area, but not with soil pH or site age. Vegetation species diversity and evenness indices were not significantly correlated with site age, area or soil pH. Hemipteran and vegetation evenness (using both Shannon evenness, J, and Heip's evenness,
3682817|We studied the winter resource selection of muskoxen Ovibos moschatus in the High Arctic using a nested hierarchy of spatial scales: 1) population range, 2) travel routes, 3) feeding sites (i.e. clusters of feeding craters), 4) feeding craters, and 5) diet (i.e. plant species). We found that, generally, patterns of selection remained consistent across all levels. At successively smaller scales, muskoxen selected for higher graminoid abundance and particularly for thinner, softer snow cover, although we did not reject the hypothesis of random travel route selection. Muskoxen uncovered forages from beneath the snow cover, by cratering, near the floristic and nival extremes of availability. Selection was consistently biased toward use of water sedge, Carex aquatilis. As scale changed, however, muskoxen showed reversals of preference for some other forage species. Diet was dominated by C. aquatilis and cotton sedge, Eriophorum angustifolium, species characteristic of lowland meadows. During spring melt, muskoxen moved to snow-free uplands to feed. Dietary quality, as revealed by fecal nitrogen, increased at this time. The consistency of the results across scales implied that these local levels of habitat selection occurred within one scaling domain.
3683557|Over the last 30 yr, the loss of traditional crop rotations and the polarisation of pastoral and arable farming have led to a marked reduction in mixed agriculture in Britain at both the individual farm and the landscape scale. We assess the potential impact of this change on lowland farmland birds by examining the extent to which distributions (as shown by national atlases of summer and winter birds) of different species are associated with arable, pastoral or mixed-farming landscape types. Relatively few species appeared as either widespread generalists, equally associated across the three broad farmland types, or specialists associated only with one landscape type. Most were associated with two farmland types but distributions showed seasonal differences. During the breeding season there was an approximate ratio of 2:2:1 of species associated with arable, mixed and pastoral landscapes. However, in winter, most species were at highest abundance in mixed farming landscapes. This coincided with a reduction in the number of species associated with pastoral landscapes relative to the breeding season, whereas the number of species associated with arable landscapes remained relatively stable. These patterns are likely to be related to foraging requirements; granivorous birds tended to be associated with arable habitats, which tend to be more seed-rich, and invertebrate-feeding species tended to be associated with mixed or pastoral ones, which may be more invertebrate-rich. The relative importance of mixed landscapes in winter was attributed to seasonal changes in the distribution of some invertebrate feeders, particularly small insectivores (pipits, chats and wagtails), and some of those species considered to be widespread in summer. The results have two important implications for future research. First, most research on farmland birds has, to date, focused on species associated with arable farming during the breeding season. More research is required on species associated with agricultural grasslands, reflecting its importance for farmland birds in Britain, and on the winter ecology of farmland birds in general. These results also emphasise the importance of mixed habitats for farmland birds, particularly in winter, and suggest that further changes in agricultural practices causing reduction in habitat diversity will be detrimental for the farmland bird community. However, widespread benefits may be derived from small scale measures that increase habitat diversity within farmland, for example field margin management options within agri-environment schemes and support for traditional farming practices in some Environmentally Sensitive Areas.
3683076| Effects of different combinations of stressors (viz. temperature, food level) on growth, developmental and survival rates of Rana temporaria tadpoles from two geographically widely ( 1500 km) separated populations were studied in a common garden experiment. In both populations, low temperature and low food level lead to lowered growth rates and delayed metamorphosis, whereas high temperature and high food level had the opposite effect. Tadpoles from north metamorphosed earlier and exhibited higher growth rates than tadpoles from south, suggesting local adaptation to shorter growth period and cooler ambient temperature in north. Size at metamorphosis did not differ between the two populations, but when the differences in metamorphic age were accounted for, then the tadpoles from north were larger than those from south. These results suggest considerable adaptive genetic differentiation in growth rates, size and timing of metamorphosis between northern and southern R. temporaria populations. In both populations, high food levels tended to reduce tadpole survival rates and there was a negative correlation between growth and survival rates across different treatments in both populations. In general, tadpoles from north experienced high mortality rates in high food level - low temperature treatments, whereas southern tadpoles experienced high mortality in high food level-high temperature treatments. This suggest that there may be genetic differences among different populations as how they would be influenced by high nutrient loads, such as brought along for example by fertilization of forest or agricultural soils. 
3683752|It has been suggested that patterns of habitat selection of animals across spatial scales should reflect the factors limiting individual fitness in a hierarchical fashion. Animals should thus select habitats that permit avoidance of the most important limiting factor at large spatial scales while the influence of less important factors should only be evident at fine scales. We tested this hypothesis by investigating moose Alces alces habitat selection using GPS telemetry in an area where the main factors limiting moose numbers were likely (in order of decreasing importance) predation risk, food availability and snow. At the landscape scale, we predicted that moose would prefer areas where the likelihood of encountering wolves was low or areas where habitats providing protection from predation were dominant. At the home-range scale, we predicted that moose selection would be driven by food availability and snow depth. Wolf territories were delineated using telemetry locations and the study area was divided into 3 sectors that differed in terms of annual snowfall. Vegetation surveys yielded 6 habitat categories that differed with respect to food availability, and shelter from predation or snow. Our results broadly supported the hypothesis because moose reacted to several factors at each scale. At the landscape scale, moose were spatially segregated from wolves by avoiding areas receiving the lowest snowfall, but they also preferentially established their home range in areas where shelter from snow bordered habitat types providing abundant food. At the home-range scale, moose also traded off food availability with avoidance of deep snow and predation risk. During winter, moose increased use of stands providing shelter from snow along edges with stands providing abundant food. Habitat selection patterns of females with calves differed from that of solitary moose, the former being associated primarily with habitats providing protection from predation. Animals should attempt to minimize detrimental effects of the main limiting factors when possible at the large scale. However, when the risk associated with several potential limiting factors varies with scale, we should expect animals to make trade-offs among these.
3683541|We evaluated the spatial and temporal patterns of roost switching behaviour by a tree-dwelling population of barbastelle bats Barbastella barbastellus in a beech forest of central Italy. Switching behaviour was common to both sexes and did not depend on group size. We observed both individual and group switching, the latter often involving the abandonment of a roost tree on a single night. We suggest that behaviours such as flight activity around roosts or cavity inspection by bats play a role in recruiting group mates and coordinating their occupation of another site. Bats almost never crossed mountain ridges to use roosts located beyond them, possibly because ridges are regarded as boundaries delimiting main roosting areas. The rate of switching was lowest during the middle of the lactation period, probably to minimise problems related to the transportation of non-volant young by their mothers. Although the maintenance of social relationship among bats spread over large forest areas may partly explain the occurrence of roost switching, the persistence of this behaviour in solitary bats and the movement of entire groups best fit the hypothesis that roost switching represents a way to maintain or increase knowledge of alternative roosts.
3683193|Feeding ecology of red fox Vulpes vulpes was studied by scat analysis and snow-tracking in primeval temperate forest and adjacent meadows during four years (1985/86-1988/89). Winters varied from mild to unusually severe. Main food resources for foxes were: rodents of open meadows and river valleys (root vole Microtus oeconomus), forest rodents (bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and yellow-necked mouse Apodemus flavicollis), hare Lepus europaeus and carcasses of wild boar Sus scrofa and red deer Cervus elaphus either killed by wolves and lynx or that had died from inanition. Composition of fox diet in four cold seasons (autumn-winter) was compared to the abundance of main food resources. Prolonged, sharp decline of Microtus was followed by only a twofold decrease of its share in fox diet. Foxes continued to prey on declining Microtus. The changes in the proportions of forest rodents and hare in fox diet clearly followed the fluctuations in numbers of these two prey. Carcasses were alternative, buffer food to foxes and were taken considerably when Microtus and other prey were in low numbers or poorly accessible. The depth of snow was the most important factor restricting foxes' access to rodents. Snow-tracking revealed that foxes dwelling in the forest widely used adjacent open areas. In open meadows foxes mainly hunted for rodents, while in the forest the most significant foraging activity was scavenging. Seasonal analysis of fox diet revealed that consumption of Microtus by foxes was stable throughout the year (37-47% of biomass consumed). Bank vole significantly contributed to fox diet in autumn, and hare in summer only. Scavenging was most pronounced in winter and spring when carcasses made up 30% of biomass taken.
3683222|Species richness and small-scale spatial dynamics (turnover) were compared in four sites during 1990-1993: 1) former alvar grassland, now young Pinus sylvestris forest, 2) clear-cut in 1990, 3) clear-cut and grazed by sheep, 4) nearby grassland. It was hypothesized that in communities which show large-scale dynamics, small-scale dynamics is also more rapid to support succession. Area-based species richness and shoot density increased in the cut and grazed site. No significant dynamics was found in shoot-based species richness. Therefore the forest was considered to be stable and the cut and grazed site large-scale dynamical (successional). Almost equally high small-scale turnover values were found in all sites, which supports the carousel model for successional communities, but means we had to reject the initial hypothesis. The successional and intrinsic small-scale dynamics of the communities studied were two separate processes which acted at different scales, but the scale could not be only spatially determined, it depended also on the shoot density. The overgrowing of this former alvar grassland has resulted in the decrease of shoot density and thus the decrease of species richness per unit area, but the total number of species has not changed much. Consequently the possibility to restore grassland communities remains.
3683462|The rock-restricted cichlid fish assemblages of Lake Malawi exhibit high spatial diversity in their species composition and relative abundance. However the extent to which this is due to the effects of local environmental differences, dispersal limitation of constituent taxa, and the assignment of allopatric populations to species is uncertain. We examined the factors associated with diversity within an assemblage from the north-western shores, encompassing a spatial scale of 170 km. For both the whole assemblage, and all constituent species-complexes, spatial variance in community structure was significantly dependent upon both geographic distances between locations and local habitat variables. Pronounced effects of distance indicate limited dispersal, but our results also show that that the spatial variance explained by geographic distance alone was strongly linked to proportion of allopatric populations within a species-complex with species status. Thus, the taxonomic status of allopatric populations underlies, at least partially, the biogeographical structure of this assemblage. Substrate composition and habitat depth were also significant determinants of community structure, although spatial variance attributed to these variables was less than that associated with distance alone. Substantial unexplained variance may be a consequence of the effects of unmeasured habitat variables, high ecological similarity between co-occurring species, stochastic influences on population abundance, and the effects of local adaptation. Despite low spatial variance explained by the assessed environmental variables, significant environmental influence on cichlid assemblage structure across a wide spatial scale indicates that even slight future environmental changes may have the capacity to significantly alter species composition.
3682969|From 1986-90 we tagged 98 harbour seal pups at Hvaler, Norway. Fifteen were recovered later the same year of which 10 were recovered in 1988, when the seal population was infected by a morbillivirus. The epizootic in 1988 resulted in a population decline of c. 75%. Predicted birth weight did not vary significantly before and after the epizootic. Newborn harbour seals have antibodies against the morbillivirus two years after the outbreak of the disease.
3683350|Mammals are frequent visitors to flowers in some Australian plant communities. Nectar is usually considered to be the food sought, because pollen is thought to be of low digestibility. This study compared the abilities of four non-flying mammal species to extract the protoplasts from Banksia pollen grains and quantified the amount of pollen in the diets of the species over 16 months. All four species were capable of extracting the protoplast from a large proportion of the pollen grains that they ingested: the mean percentage of empty Banksia pollen grains in the faeces ranged from 37% to 66%. Banksia pollen was a major component in the faecal samples from two species, Cercartetus nanus and Petaurus breviceps, between March and October. It occasionally comprised a large proportion of Antechinus stuartii faeces but was rare in the faeces of Rattus fuscipes. Other major components of faeces included invertebrates and plant material other than pollen and fungal spores. As the four mammal species tested were all from separate families and all capable of extracting the protoplast from a large proportion of the pollen grains, it is concluded that the extraction of pollen protoplasts by mammals may be widespread and may require no special adaptations.
3683174|We describe a complex vertical stratification of collembolan assemblages from rainforest leaf litter samples and identify distinct assemblages associated with forest floor, lower canopy and upper canopy samples. Leaf litter samples were collected from the forest floor and deposits of leaf litter suspended in epiphytes in the canopy of a subtropical rainforest site at Lamington National Park in southeast Queensland. The patterns of relationship among assemblages of Collembola extracted from these samples were examined using a variety of analyses of a matrix of similarities between samples. The results of ANOSIM analyses showed that forest floor, lower canopy and upper canopy samples formed discrete groups. These results permit a discussion of these groups as three distinct collembolan assemblages. Analysis of the dissimilarities between these assemblages revealed a gradient of similarity from the forest floor through the lower to the upper canopy. This gradient represents a more complex vertical stratification than has previously been identified in rainforest canopy arthropods. We suggest that limitations on the dispersal of some forest floor species into the canopy may be responsible for this pattern. We also identify a second gradient of similarities among these assemblages. We show that dissimilarity among samples from forest floor is significantly lower than dissimilarity among samples from within the lower canopy, and that the level of dissimilarity between samples from within the upper canopy is significantly higher again. We suggest that dispersal barriers and higher probabilities of extinction in upper canopy collembolan colonies may be responsible for higher heterogeneity of species composition and abundance among samples from the upper canopy. We outline a number of testable hypotheses aimed at determining the importance of these processes in producing the patterns we have observed.
3683809|Landscape feature can be classified by creating categories based on aggregation of spatially explicit information. However, many landscape features appear continuous rather than discrete. The aggregation process likely involves loss of information and introduces a variety of uncertainties whose degree and extent may differ spatially. Since landscape classifications have found wide application in e.g natural resource policies or ecological research, assessments of spatial classification uncertainties are required. We present a quantitative framework to identify the degree of landscape continuity (fuzziness) and structure (categorization) based on fuzzy classification and offer measures to quantify uncertainties originating from aggregating features into categories. Fuzzy classification is a non-hierarchical, quantitative method of assessing class definitions using degrees of association between features and class. This results in classes which are well defined and compositionally distinct, as well as classes which are less clearly defined but which, to various degrees, share characteristics with some or all classes. The spatial variation in the degree of class definition on the landscape is used to assess classification uncertainties. The two aspects of uncertainty investigated are the degree of association of a feature with the overall class definitions (membership diffusion), and the class-specific degree of association of each pixel on the landscape with each class (membership saturation). Three classification scenarios, one fuzzy and one discrete, of the historical landscape of Wisconsin (USA) were compared for spatial classification uncertainties. Membership diffusion is highest in topographically heterogeneous environments, or areas characterized by many species occupying similar ecological niches. Classification uncertainties for individual classes show that differentiated species distributions can be identified, not only distribution centers.
3683011|A study of a number of reproductive traits in two sympatric species of Pedicularis in northern Swedish Lapland, the subarctic-alpine P. lapponica and the artic P. hirsuta, revealed that the life-history strategies of the two species differ profoundly. High fruit set and low seed abortion rate, as in P. hirsuta, is common in arctic plants in late-thawing habitats and represents a case of extreme adversity selection rather than an indication of a ruderal life-history strategy. Pedicularis lapponica, on the other hand, is a typical K-strategist (or stress-tolerator) requiring a longer period of growth for optimal reproduction. Occurring at both low and high altitudes in the area, P. lapponica tends to increase in self-compatibility with altitude, which is interpreted as an adaptation to lower pollinator visitation frequency in arctic environments. The variation in length of the protruding part of the style in P. lapponica is shown to be correlated with exposure to light. Predispersal seed predation is severe in P. lapponica at low altitudes, where the capsules are attacked by fly and moth larvae. At high altitudes, a minor proportion of the capsules of P. lapponica experience predation and only from flies, while P. hirsuta is completely unpredated.
3683812|This study investigated endemic plants in the Sperrgebiet in the succulent karoo - a global biodiversity hotspot in southern Africa. In order to develop hypotheses regarding the evolution of this endemic flora, the following questions were posed: 1) Are taxonomic patterns similar at different levels of taxonomic order? 2) Are adaptations of Sperrgebiet endemic taxa different from the overall flora? 3) Are adaptations different in related endemic and non-endemic taxa? There is an over-representation of species of Mesembryanthemaceae in the endemic flora, which is in accordance with patterns in the succulent karoo biome overall. The nearly 37% contribution of Mesembryanthemaceae to the endemic flora is, however, remarkably higher than elsewhere in the biome. The over-representation of this family is not maintained at a higher level of taxonomic order, supporting the notion of recent speciation in this family. Regarding plant functional attributes, major differences between the endemic and non-endemic flora exist. Compact leaf-succulents with canopy stored, water-dispersed seeds, as well as bulbs and shrubby leaf-succulents predominate the endemic flora. Differences in reproductive (seed storage and dispersal distance) and growth form attributes between the endemic and non-endemic flora were largely influenced by phylogenetic history. Minutism (plant height <10 cm) was favoured by many endemic plants, but this was not only influenced by phylogenetic factors. Two hypotheses emerged from these observations: 1) the evolution of minutism is largely driven by external factors in the Sperrgebiet, and 2) external factors and phylogenetic history are likely of equal importance in the development of the Sperrgebiet endemic flora.
3683573|As part of the international Globenet project, carabid beetles (Coleoptera, Carabidae) were collected using pitfall traps from four urban, four suburban and four rural sites in Hiroshima City, Japan, during the 2001 summer season. In agreement with expectation, carabid abundance and species richness decreased significantly from rural to urban sites. Furthermore, no large, and only few individuals of medium-sized specialist species were collected from the urban environment, while many specimens of medium-sized and some large-sized specialist species were collected from the suburban and rural sites. Hiroshima city was characterised by medium-sized generalist carabids, while the suburbs and the rural environments were characterised by small-sized generalist beetles. These results did not apply at the species level. To summarise, we found a significant effect of urbanisation on the composition of carabid beetle assemblages in Hiroshima City. These changes were similar to those found in previous studies performed in Sofia (Bulgaria), Edmonton (Canada) and Helsinki (Finland). Thus, it appears that urbanisation has some similar and predictable effects on carabid assemblages in various parts of the world.
3683725|A characteristic feature of the spatial distribution of many species is patchiness. This spatial patchiness may be generated by very different processes, e.g. fragmentation, succession and extinction-colonisation dynamics. In this study, we apply a spatial realistic metapopulation model to analyse the occupancy pattern of a rare and endangered grasshopper, Stauroderus scalaris, found in an extensive network of 158 patches. When the study was initiated in 1985 the regional occupancy was 9.3% declining down to 7.1% in 1989. Then there was a spatial expansion of the population and in 1993 as many as 27.3% of the patches were occupied and 32.9% in 1995. During this expansion phase, the dynamics obeyed metapopulation principles; large patches and less isolated ones were more likely to be colonised. In the beginning, local extinction risks were negatively related to patch size and positively influenced by isolation. However, later on neither area nor isolation affected extinction probabilities. Altogether, 20 extinctions and 56 colonisations were observed. The shift in regional occupancy, with a growth of ca 20%, coincides with perturbations to the patch network and the warmest summer in 140 yr. Our results suggest that S. scalaris persists on a dynamic habitat mosaic, where refuges are crucial during adverse periods, and stochastic environmental factors (disturbances and climate), that are correlated over large areas, are generating population dynamic patterns that are hard to predict using current modelling techniques.
3683008|Glacier forelands provide valuable sites for the study of patterns and processes of primary succession. The Storbreen glacier foreland, south-central Norway, has previously been the subject of a suite of community-level approaches. Here, the focus is population-level studies of six key pioneer plants: Arabis alpina, Deschampsia alpina, Oxyria digyna, Poa alpina, Saxifraga cespitosa and Trisetum spicatum and four heath shrubs: Betula nana, Empetrum hermaphroditum, Phyllodoce caerulea and Salix complex (Salix glauca and S. lanata). Size-frequency distributions are used as indicators of population phenomena. The optimal conditions for growth and fecundity of Arabis alpina and Saxifraga cespitosa appear to be almost immediately upon deglaciation (<7 yr), although both achieve their maximum cover on slightly older terrain. A similar pattern was noted for the grasses, although their optima come at slightly later times. Population phenomena in Oxyria digyna could not be related to terrain age, indicating a differing role of this species within the succession. Among the shrubs a number of demographic and behavioural patterns are identifiable as successional features, and other patterns are explicable in relation to changing histories of disturbance and site moisture relationships. Establishment and build-up in Empetrum hermaphroditum and Salix complex do not appear to be environmentally constrained, in contrast to Betula nana and Phyllodoce caerulea. Betula nana is the slowest species to colonize, but occasional early colonists appear healthy and fecund, pointing to a strong environmental sieve at the point of establishment. The population patterns varied considerably among the shrub species, the most striking common feature being in mode of establishment. Establishment of ramets by vegetative means occurs increasingly on older ground within the foreland (maximum terrain age 230 yr) but only in sites of the mature heath outside the foreland is it the characteristic mode of establishment. In exception to this pattern, vegetative establishment of Phyllodoce caerulea is very rare in all conditions studied. Discussion focuses upon the importance of population phenomena, seed dispersal and life-history characteristics in successional change. It is concluded that processes involved in species turnover include both allogenic and autogenic elements and that although the two classes are difficult to separate in practice, autogenic factors become more significant whilst species-environment relations become tighter in later phases of vegetation development.
30244539|Species-area relations (SARs) are among the few recognized general patterns of ecology, are empirical relations giving the number of species found within an area of a given size and were initially formulated for island environments. The use of SARs has been extended to mainland environments, and to give baseline estimates of extinction rates attending habitat loss. Using current species distributions based on atlas data, we examined the spatial variation of rates of species accumulation and species-area curves for Proteaceae species for all one-minute by one-minute areas within the Cape Floristic Region, South Africa. We compared SARs for current distributions to those generated from modeled future Protea distributions following climate change. Within one biome and for two different scales, there exists a very large spatial variation in turnover rates for current Proteaceae distributions, and we show that these rates will not remain constant as climate warming progresses. As climate changes in coming years, some areas will gain species due to migration, as other areas lose species, and still other areas maintain current rates of species accumulation/turnover. Both current and future distributions show highly variable rates of species accumulation across the landscape. This means that an average species-area relationship will hide a very large interval of variation among SARs, for both current and future Proteaceae distributions. The naive use of species-area relations to estimate species extinctions following loss of current habitat, or loss of future climatically-suitable area is likely to result in erroneous predictions.
30243277|Warming climate could affect leaf-level carbon isotope composition $(\delta^{13}C)$ through variations in photosynthetic gas exchange. However, it is still unclear to what extent variations in foliar $\delta^{13}C$ can be used to detect changes in net primary productivity (NPP) because leaf physiology is only one of many determinants of stand productivity. We aim to examine how well site-mean foliar $\delta^{13}C$ and stand NPP co-vary across large resource gradients using data obtained from the Tibetan Alpine Vegetation Transects (1900-4900 m, TAVT). The TAVT data indicated a robust negative correlation between foliar $\delta^{13}C$ and NPP across ecosystems $(NPP = -2.7224\delta^{13}C-67.738$ , r =0.60, p <0.001). The mean foliar $\delta^{13}C$ decreased with increasing annual precipitation and its covariation with mean temperature and soil organic carbon and nitrogen contents. The results were further confirmed by global literature data. Pooled $\delta^{13}C$ data from global literature and this study explained 60% of variations in annual NPP both from TAVT-measures and MODIS-estimates across 67 sites. Our results appear to support a conceptual model relating foliar $\delta^(13)C$ and nitrogen concentration ( $N_{mass}$ ) to NPP, suggesting that: 1) there is a general (negative) relationship between $\delta^{13}C$ and NPP across different water availability conditions; 2) in water-limited conditions, water availability has greater effects on NPP than $N_{massi}$ ; 3) when water is not limiting, NPP increases with increasing $N_{mass}$ .
3683789|We explore geographical variation in the density relationship between potential competitor forest bird groups, resident Parus spp. and migrant Fringilla spp., across Europe using published bird census results. In addition, we summarized results from three experimental studies from northern Europe on their density associations. Based on anticipated changes in the relative intensity of positive and competitive interactions we predicted a unimodal density association between Parus and Fringilla: at low and intermediate densities the two groups are positively associated (positive interaction), whereas high densities promote interspecific competition. In central Europe where densities are high, densities were unimodally related to each other. In northern and southern Europe linear and positive associations appeared. Experimental studies provided consistent support for positive interspecific interactions in the north. The results suggest that species interactions may indeed vary in relation to the density of potential competitor and switch from positive to negative along environmental gradients.
3682987|Three methods of analysis were used to determine the diet of territorial hooded crows at Lough Hyne Marine Reserve, Co. Cork, Ireland. The regular collection of prey items from these sites at Lough Hyne was integrated with pellet and stomach analysis to determine diet. Intertidal organisms occurred in over 80% of pellets and 43% of stomachs and occupied over 77% of the total wet weight of foods identified in pellets. All prey items recovered from drop sites originated from the intertidal habitat, involved either large-sized species or larger individuals of smaller-sized species, and were only dropped during October to February. Twenty-five intertidal species were identified but only a few of these species contributed to the bulk of the diet. Hooded crows were shown to consume a wide range of intertidal species throughout the year, though the species composition in the diet was seasonally influenced. Depletion and weight loss of intertidal molluscs through the winter was shown to have a minimal effect on selection suggesting that prey switching was driven by the bird's nutritional requirements.
3682981|The bumblebee community in an alpine valley in northern Sweden was studied for two seasons. Only two species of bumblebees, Bombus alpinus and B. hyperboreus, are common at the site. Bombus hyperboreus is an obligate nest parasite on B. alpinus; the latter species is four times more abundant than the former. The number of captures on any given day was very low. However, the number of queens foraging in the area was estimated by a mark-reacapture method to ca 350 specimens, indicating that the queens forage over large areas. The dates for capturing queens carrying pollen in their corbiculae and the emergence of workers and males indicate that the queens only have time to produce one batch (or possibly two overlapping batches) of workers. The utilization of different plant species corresponds well with their flowering phenology at the site. The unspecialized flowers of Saxifraga oppositifolia are the main pollen and nectar source in the early part of the season. The bumblebees switch to Astragalus alpinus and Bartsia alpina as soon as they come into flower; these species show a typical bee pollination syndrome. The corbicular loads most commonly consisted of 91 - 100% of pollen from a single species. The change in flower utilization and the composition of the corbicular loads give no support for the hypothesis that arctic bumblebees should be more generalistic in their foraging than temperate species. The preference for Astragalus and Bartsia will probably have an effect on outcrossing in late-flowering specimens of Saxifraga oppositifolia, which has a very extended flowering period.
3683490|Do changes in the species composition of riverine fish assemblages along river networks lead to predictable changes in food-web structure? We assembled empirical "fish-centered" river food webs for three rivers located along a latitudinal gradient in the South Saskatchewan River Basin (SSRB) that differ in land-use impacts and geomorphology but flow through similar mountain, foothill, and prairie physiographic regions. We then calculated 17 food-web properties to determine whether the nine river food webs differed according to physiographic region or river sub-basin. There were no statistically significant differences in the 17 food-web properties calculated among the rivers. In contrast, fish species richness, connectance, the proportion of herbivores, and the proportion of cannibals changed longitudinally along the river network. Our results suggest that regional changes in river geomorphology and physicochemistry play an important role in determining longitudinal variation in food-web properties such as fish species richness and connectance. In contrast, the overall structure of river food webs may be relatively similar and insensitive to regional influences such as zoogeography. Further explorations of river and other food webs would greatly illuminate this suggestion.
3683478|For several epiphyte species, dispersal limitation and metapopulation dynamics have been suggested. We studied the relative importance of local environmental conditions and spatial aggregation of species richness of facultative and obligate epiphytic bryophytes and lichens within two old-growth forests in eastern Sweden. The effect of the local environment was analyzed using generalized linear models (GLM). We tested whether species richness was spatially structured by fitting variogram models to the residuals of the GLM. In addition, we analyzed the species-area relationship (area = tree diameter). Different environmental variables explained the richness of different species groups (bryophytes vs lichens, specialists vs generalists, sexual vs asexual dispersal). In most groups, the total variation explained by environmental variables was higher than the variation explained by the spatial model. Spatial aggregation was more pronounced in asexually than in sexually dispersed species. Bryophyte species richness was only poorly predicted by area, and lichen species richness was not explained by area at all. Spatial aggregation may indicate effects of dispersal limitation and metapopulation dynamics on community species richness. Our results suggest that species groups differ in habitat requirements and dispersal abilities; there were indications that presence of species with different dispersal strategies is linked to the age of the host tree. Separate analyses of the species richness of species groups that differ in the degree of habitat specialization and dispersal ability give insights into the processes determining community species richness. The poor species-area relationship, especially in lichens, may indicate species turnover rather than accumulation during the lifetime of the host tree. Epiphyte species extinctions may be mainly caused by deterministic processes, e.g. changes in habitat conditions as the host tree grows, ages and dies, rather than by stochastic population processes.
3683073| To test whether spider succession following harvest differed from succession following wildfire, spiders were collected by pitfall trapping and sweep netting over two years in aspen-dominated boreal forests. Over 8400 individuals from 127 species of spiders were identified from 12 stands representing three age-classes (stand origin in 1995, 1982, and 1968) and two disturbance types (wildfire and harvesting). The diversity of spider assemblages tended to be higher in fire-origin stands than in harvest-origin stands; the youngest fire-origin stands also supported more even distributions of spider species. Spider assemblages responded quickly to wildfire and harvesting as open habitat specialists colonized stands within one year after disturbance. Many web-building species common to older forests either survived harvesting, or re-colonized harvest-origin stands more rapidly than they re-colonized fire-origin stands. Cluster analyses and DCA ordination show faunal convergence by ca 30 years after wildfire and harvesting; trajectories in re-colonization, however, differed by disturbance type as the succession of spider assemblages from fire-origin stands lagged behind spider succession in harvest-origin stands. Comparison with cluster analyses using vegetation data and abiotic site conditions suggests spider assemblages recover from harvesting and fire more rapidly than do a variety of other site characteristics. Several spider species (e.g. Gnaphosa borea Kulczyski, Pirata bryantae Kurata, Arctosa alpigena (Doleschall)) appear dependent on some of the conditions associated with wildfires as they were absent or rarely collected in harvest-origin stands. 
3683767|We examined variation in woody fruit size among 362 Australian Eucalyptus species with respect to predictions relating fruit size to fire exposure and rainfall. Predictions for fruit size variation were established that focussed on selection for small or large seeds, given a positive allometric relationship between fruit and seed size within the genus, and on the potential for fruits to protect their valuable seed contents. Comparatively smaller fruits were found in species that continually experience frequent disturbance by fire, while both small and large fruits were found among species subjected to both short and long fire intervals. In the latter case where a broad range of fire intervals is possible, some species have adopted a strategy of producing small seeds that provide superior colonisation ability in disturbed conditions, while other species have adopted a strategy of producing large seeds which are more competitive during longer intervals between disturbance by fire. Only when taxonomic membership at the subgeneric level was accounted for in analyses across all species, did a significant relationship emerge between fruit size and rainfall independently of fire interval and plant height: comparatively larger fruits were found in species experiencing lower average annual rainfall in the subgenera Eucalyptus and Symphyomyrtus. In contrast to previous studies, larger fruits were found only in short species, while small fruits were found in both short and tall species. Many short species have adopted a strategy of protecting their seeds from high fire intensity by producing larger fruit. Since tall species can elevate their fruit far above high fire intensity, they make considerable energy savings by producing smaller fruit. It remains an open question as to why small fruit size occurs in some short species, but we suggest that these species may invest more heavily in vegetative regrowth after fire than in re-establishment by seed.
3682796|European butterfly species have been classified, using four multivariate classification techniques, to faunal groups (a collection of species having similar distributions) each group having a unique geography (faunal element). Concordance occurs for 94% of species for at least three of the techniques. The faunal groups are biassed in geography, endemicity and taxonomic affiliation, indicating that they have historical and evolutionary significance. The inference is that a species by belonging to one faunal group, rather than to another, has a higher probability of being an endemic, and if it is not an endemic, then of evolving into one. This probability is influenced by affiliation to higher taxa, such as butterfly families, and thus by phylogenetic constraints. We argue that the fidelity of a species to a faunal element will affect its evolutionary pathway since, by belonging to a faunal element, a species is subject to the distinctive processes linked to a unique landscape and its environmental conditions. Species have the capacity of switching between faunal groups owing to environmental changes impinging on their geographical ranges and epigenotypes. However, transfer of species across different groups are not of equal likelihood, being greatest between contiguous land elements and least between those restricted to islands. We suggest that conservation biology gives more attention to faunal structures; faunal groups have unique geography, are vulnerable to different macroevolutionary pressures and effectively underpin community assemblages within specific biotopes.
3683155|This work was done to determine if suppressed growth of stunted old-growth Thuja occidentalis along Niagara Escarpment cliff edges was associated with low concentrations of tissue macronutrients and/or the absence of mycorrhizae; and if the restriction of Acer saccharum from cliff edges could be due to similar limitations. Mycorrhizal colonization rates and foliar concentrations of N, P, K, Ca, and Mg were compared between the cliff face, cliff edge, deciduous forest and a swamp for T. occidentalis, and between the cliff edge and deciduous forest for A. saccharum. There were statistically significant differences in tissue nutrient concentrations and mycorrhizal colonization between species but not among habitats. This suggests that the stunted growth of T. occidentalis on the cliff face, and the absence of A. saccharum from the cliff edge are not due to limitations imposed by macronutrients or lack of mycorrhizae.
3683575|Reindeer Rangifer tarandus L. grazing shapes forest vegetation, microclimate, and soil respiration in Lapland, especially due to grazing on lichens (Cladina). We studied how these changes and their magnitude affect ground-dwelling species of beetle families Carabidae (predators) and Curculionidae (herbivores), by using pitfall traps to collect invertebrates from pairs of grazed and ungrazed study plots over a wide range of site types. Changes in abundance, composition, richness and diversity of beetle assemblage were tested in relation to magnitude of the impacts on vegetation. The species compositions of Carabidae and Curculionidae differed between grazed and ungrazed plots in all sites. The relative difference between grazed and ungrazed plots in the number of individuals increased linearly with the impact of reindeer on vegetation cover. Carabid beetles, as a family, were more common in grazed plots in all sites. Curculionid beetles were more common in ungrazed plots in the birch dominated sites. This difference was mainly due to the species that feeds on deciduous leaves. In the pine dominated sites with high Cladina cover and more changes in ground vegetation, the number of curculionids feeding on conifers was higher in grazed plots. Species richness and diversity (H') of both families were higher in grazed plots. Of the total 27 species, 11 were found only in grazed plots, while not a single species was found only in ungrazed plots. The relative difference between plots in diversity and evennes (H'/H'max) had humped response to the difference in Cladina cover. The diversity values were greater in grazed plots at the intermediate levels of grazing impact, and only in sites with very low or extremely high Cladina cover difference was the diversity higher in ungrazed plots. The response of beetle diversity resembled the hypotheses suggested for the relationship between grazing and vegetation diversity: greatest positive effect at intermediate grazing intensity and negative effects at unproductive sites.
3683065|We used laboratory feeding trials to test the palatability of silver birch Betula pendula seedings to root voles Microtus oeconomus. Seedlings of two B. pendula families (A and B) were grown in growth chambers on three soil types and under two light intensities. Seedlings from family A grew taller and had more resin droplets on their bark than seedlings from family B. The more light or nutrients the seedlings received the taller they grew and the more resin droplets they had on their bark. We offered 10 root voles both basal and top 5 - 10 cm segments of winter-dormant seedlings one treatment at a time (no-choice arrangement) in a random order. The seedlings grown on low-fertility soil were eaten more than those grown on non-fertilized or fertilized peat. The top segments of seedlings grown in low light were slightly more eaten than those grown in high light. Birch family did not have any effect on the consumption. Consumption correlated negatively with the amount of resin droplets on the bark when the seedling material was compared over different treatments. These results indicate that root voles would prefer young birch seedlings that have low amount of resin droplets on the bark and that grow in poor soils or under low light conditions.
3683084|In this paper we present an unusual incidence of an introduced Carnivora Felis catus as indirect seed disperser of plants that produce fleshy fruits in different ecosystems in the Canary Islands. Four hundred and twenty six seeds from at least 8 fleshy fruit plant species have been identified in the analysis of 1047 scat groups, the majority of them being found in the lower habitats (<600 m a.s.l.) of the Canary archipelago. Seeds from two plant species were significantly matched with the presence of lizard prey, and fruits of Juniperus phoenicea, Neochamaelea pulverulenta and Withania aristata were directly consumed by the cats. Passing through the gut of the Gallotia galloti (Lacertidae) and Felis catus apparently does not damage the seeds. At the moment, the phenomenon studied in this paper does not seem to have a great quantitative importance in the natural regeneration of the plants if we compare the direct vs indirect seed dispersal.
3683633|Epidemiological theory predicts positive correlations between host population density or body mass and species richness among parasite communities. Here I test these predictions by a comparative study of communities of directly transmitted mammalian parasites, gastrointestinal strongylid nematodes. I use data from 45 species of mammals, representing examination of 17 200 individual hosts. The variable studied was the average number of gastrointestinal strongylid nematode species per host population, and three different methods were used to obtain estimates of parasite species richness that are unbiased by number of host individuals examined. Analyses were done using the phylogenetically independent contrast method. Host population density and parasite species richness were strongly positively correlated when the effects of host body weight had been controlled for. Controlling for other variables did not change this, and the relationship was found regardless of method used to correct for uneven sampling effort among host species. A positive relationship between parasite species richness and host body weight was also found, but the effect of host densities had to be controlled for to see this. These relationships between host traits and species richness of directly transmitted parasites are stronger than patterns found using data on indirectly transmitted mammalian parasites, and suggests that links between host traits and parasite species richness are stronger than previously suggested. The results are consistent with parasite species richness being positively linked to pathogen transmission rates and reductions in transmission rates possibly increasing extinction probabilities in parasite populations. The results also suggest that parasites may exert a cost of increases in rate of population energy usage, and thus show that pathogens may be important in generating independence between body mass and rate of population energy usage among host species.
3683018| We analysed the distribution of native and alien plant species across 20 ecogeographic zones of northwestern Kenya. The source pool for the majority of aliens was Europe and America. Thus, the source pool has a biogeographic bias which explains the low proportion of aliens in the tropics: most species in the European or American source pool are not well adapted to tropical conditions. As expected, native and alien plant species showed an area effect. Correcting for this area effect, species rich zones showed a higher proportion of alien plant species in their flora. At the analysed scale, species richness of native plant communities does not increase the resistance to invasions and alien plant species invade diversity hotspots. Compared to the other ecogeographic zone, the urban area around Nairobi showed an increased richness in alien and native plant species. This is very similar to findings in Europe, although the history of urbanisation is much shorter in Kenya. The species turnover between zones (-diversity) shows a similar pattern in native and alien plant species. Within a very short time scale the alien plant species mapped the biogeographic patterns of natives, although the geography of human activities influences the propagule pressure. 
3682979|Three congeneric species of Salix-feeding psyllid Cacopsylla spp. occur along an altitudinal gradient (988-1222 m a.s.l.) in southern Norway. The 27-km transect covered the local altitudinal range of the three species. Each species showed a different characteristic altitudinal distribution: C. propinqua occurred over the entire altitudinal range of the transect; C. palmeni was restricted to higher altitudes and C. brunneipennis occurred mainly at lower altitudes. This pattern of local altitudinal distribution mirrored the broader geographical distributions of these psyllids along latitudinal gradients. All three species developed on willow catkins but also made use of leaves. Species differed in their use of leaves with <10% of sampled individuals of C. brunneipennis or C. palmeni developing on leaves compared with up to 80% in C. propinqua. The proportion of C. propinqua nymphs developing on catkins increased with altitude and was also related to the temporal and spatial availability of catkins but was not a result of competitive displacement from catkins. Nitrogen concentration of host plants did not affect the proportions of C. propinqua on leaves or catkins and was not related to adult size or psyllid density on catkins. Patterns of resource use are discussed in relation to differences in the distribution and abundance of the three species along the transect.
3683506|Eighty-five patches of semi-natural grassland of varying size scattered in a agricultural landscape were investigated for their flora of vascular plants. Relationships between species richness and patch area, spatial isolation and local habitat conditions including heterogeneity were examined. Differences between single species and among groups of species defined by life-history traits were also investigated. Area was shown to be an important determinant of species richness irrespective of habitat heterogeneity. Isolation in space and habitat heterogeneity also play significant roles. These results are consistent with results from a multitude of studies on fragments of ancient deciduous woodland in northern Europe. They are, however, contradictory to results from previous studies in grasslands within the same region. Seed mass and dispersal syndrome were poor predictors of the degree to which the species were affected by isolation of grassland patches. Seed mass deviation from community median could explain a small percentage of the variation in regional abundance. Logistic regression on species occurrences showed that few species are associated with large patches, and less than half seem to avoid isolated patches.
3683418|This study analyses the effects of post-dispersal predation of Pinus nigra seeds on the initial recruitment of this species in areas burned by large wildfires, where P. nigra shows very low regeneration. In three different habitats obtained in a gradient of time since fire in Catalonia (NE Spain), we have evaluated the effects of seed predators (ants, rodents and birds) on post-dispersal seed removal and early seedling establishment of P. nigra by using selective exclosures limiting their access to seeds. Ants were the most efficient seed predator group, followed by rodents and birds. The contribution of each group to overall predation showed large seasonal variations. The first seeds dispersed in winter were mainly predated by rodents, which also registered their highest abundance in this season of the year. In spring, at the end of the natural dissemination period of P. nigra seeds, ants became the major predators, this fact coinciding with their increased abundance. Birds showed the lowest predation values. In the seedling establishment experiment, only in the exclusion treatment of the three predator groups was there initial establishment in all habitats, especially in the recently burned area, where there was seedling establishment in all exclusion treatments. The post-dispersal seed predation by different animal groups and low seedling emergence in the different habitats obtained in this study, together with the low seed availability of P. nigra seeds in burned areas, do not predict a favourable outlook for the natural post-fire recolonization of this species, which might even affect its overall distribution area in the region.
3683754|Mixed-pollination systems may allow plants to achieve stable seed production when unpredictable conditions cause variation in the relative success of different pollination modes. We studied variation in time (two years) and space (in five populations, three from an island and two from mainland) in the pollination mode of Buxus balearica, an ambophilous (i.e. pollinated by wind and insects) and selfing species distributed in the Mediterranean Basin, by means of direct observations and experimental manipulations (bagging with different material). The relative importance of each pollination mode differed among populations; however, levels of selfing and wind pollination were similar between island and mainland. Flowers of B. balearica were visited only by generalist insects, and species composition and abundance of flower visitors varied both in space and time. Frequency of insect visits to plants were not higher in mainland than island populations, although insects on the mainland were more diverse, visited a proportionally greater number of flowers, and remained longer on the plants than insects on the island. Frequency of insect visits was negatively correlated with flowering synchrony (all populations pooled) and was found to increase seed set in one of the mainland populations (that with highest frequency of insect visits and highest flower visitation rate). Fruit and seed mass were found to be not affected by pollination mode. Scarcity of pollinators in the island seems to have an effect on the pollination mode, although the greatest variation in breeding system was found at a more local scale.
3683749|The predator-avoidance hypothesis states that once released from the parent plant, myrmecochorous seeds are rapidly taken by ants to their nests, where they are protected from predators. Previous studies conducted to test this hypothesis have frequently neglected two major aspects necessary for its verification: 1) the influence of processes acting after the seed release and 2) the spatial evenness of such processes. Thus, largescale variations in the mechanisms acting beyond seed release, and possibly influencing seed escape from predators, remain poorly documented. Here, we present the results of a post-dispersal seed-removal experiment on the myrmecochorous herb Helleborus foetidus, aimed at verifing the predator-avoidance hypothesis by considering two key post-release aspects of seed fate: seed destination (dispersed or nondispersed) and seed burial (buried or not buried). Experiments were performed in four different regions in the Iberian Peninsula. After three days of exposure of seeds to the main predator (fieldmice Apodemus sylvaticus), ca 30% of the seeds were removed. Seed destination affected the proportion of seeds escaping predation, but the sign, magnitude and statistical significance of the effect varied among the geographical regions. In the southern region (Cazorla), seeds dispersed in ant nests or intermediate destinations suffered scarcely any predation, but seeds under reproductive-age plants experienced losses ca 50%. Conversely, in the northern region (Caurel), seeds in nests suffered significantly greater losses than seeds under plants or intermediate destinations, suggesting that nests were especially unsafe destinations. Seed burial had a strong impact on seed escape from predators, and its effect was highly consistent among geographical regions. In view of the consistency of its effect at different spatial scales, seed burial was a more general mechanism for predation avoidance than seed relocation to ant nests, which was habitat- and/or ant-species-dependent. Our results thus only partially support the predator-avoidance hypothesis for the evolution of myrmecochory.
3683834|In Flanders, forests have been subjected to subsequent periods of reclamation and reforestation, leading to a mosaic of forest patches of various ages and with different abiotic conditions, depending on the duration and intensity of the past agricultural activities. While extensive research has been done on the relative importance of dispersal limitation and establishment limitation in explaining colonization patterns of so-called ancient forest plant species, little is known about the viability of populations of these species once they have colonized recent forests. Therefore, a comparative study on population structure and plant performance was carried out for three forest plant species with different colonization capacity (Primula elatior, Geum urbanum and Arum maculatum) in three different habitat types: ancient forests, recently established forests and small landscape elements (hedgerows). Contrary to the expectation, it was shown that adult plant performance - a combination of vegetative as well as reproductive characteristics - of the three species was generally higher in recent forests and small landscape elements. This also led to higher seedling densities and proportions in these habitat types. Adult densities, however, were extremely low in newly established forests, suggesting reduced seedling and juvenile survival under these circumstances, probably due to higher light availability and hence increased competition from species like Urtica dioica. Although there might be no immediate establishment limitation, installing a shrub layer in recent forests might enhance survival and result in a stable population structure. Hedgerows on the other hand seemed to contain viable populations of certain forest plant species and can therefore function as an important colonization source when incorporated in recently established forests.
3683609|Farmland birds have declined in large areas of western and northern Europe. This decline has been connected with changes in the agricultural landscape. We studied the effects of landscape composition on birds in a boreal agricultural-forest mosaic in SW Finland. This study was carried out with a grid-based approach: bird pairs were counted in 105 grid squares of 25 ha within an area of <tex-math>$26.25\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. The total density of farmland birds and density of red-listed species were related to the land cover variables using generalized linear modelling (GLM). Farmland birds consist of a variable group of species either breeding or feeding in agricultural land. The model explained a moderate proportion (49%) of the variation in the total density of farmland birds in the landscape. In a regression analysis cover of non-arable agricultural land (semi-natural grasslands, built-up areas) explained a much higher proportion <tex-math>$({\rm r}^{2}=0.49)$</tex-math> of the variation in farmland bird density than that of arable land (cultivated fields and set-aside fields, r<sup>2</sup>=0.04. Semi-natural grasslands, which have drastically declined throughout NW Europe, and built-up areas (mainly farmyards) had the most significant positive effects on the density of red-listed species. The results emphasize the significance of semi-natural grasslands for the declining red-listed farmland bird species. Birds are usually not restricted to certain patches of habitat but use several patches in their home range. Thus, when studying bird-landscape relations for land use planning, we also recommend grid-based approaches covering the whole landscape variation.
30243166|Aeroalgal sampling of Varanasi City, India, was done using a Tilak Rotorod sampler and exposing agarised Bold basal medium Petri plates during March 2003 to February 2005. Amongst the 34 airborne algal genera recorded, cyanobacteria dominated the aero-algal flora, followed by green algae and diatoms. The generic diversity of airborne algae as well as the constituting groups exhibited seasonal variation. The most favored period for the appearance of cyanobacteria in the air was summer, while winter favored green algae. Presence of diatoms was almost uniform throughout the year. The presence of algal particles in the air depended upon the abundance and dynamics of algal source and their release and dispersal in the atmosphere. Best model selection with Akaike information criteria indicated temperature, relative humidity, rainfall, wind velocity as the most important climatic factors determining algal diversity. These factors exert their effect both directly by influencing entrainment and dispersal of algae from the source, and indirectly by regulating the dynamics of the possible algal source (soil, water, plant body, wall and roof of the building) by supporting or inhibiting the algal growth. In a closed environment and at low altitude sampling site characteristic is also an important factor. Open area near to the countryside had maximal aero-algal diversity.
3683584|Nestedness in biota as a function of species richness - biota of depauperate assemblages being non-random subsets of richer biotas - has been widely documented in recent years (see Wright et al. 1998, Oecologia 113: 1-20). Ordering sites by richness maximizes nestedness indices; however, ordering by other criteria such as area or isolation may be more ecologically interpretable. We surveyed birds in true fragments (35 in all), and in "reference areas" in large extant forest blocks (30 locations), of the same range of areas (10, 20, 40, 80 ha). The avifauna was divided into "bush birds" - species dependent on forest and woodland, and "open country" species. We looked at nestedness in four data sets: "bush birds" in fragments and reference areas, and "all birds" in fragments and in reference areas. All data sets were significantly nested. Ordering by area in all cases was not significantly less nested than ordering by richness. Ordering by area in fragments was significantly greater than in reference areas, but the differences in standardized nestedness indices were small (< 15%). We identified those birds that had distributions among fragments that conformed strongly with area, those that were more randomly distributed and some species that were more likely to occupy the smallest fragments. Among the latter was a hyperaggressive, invasive, colonial native species (noisy miner Manorina melanocephala). A suite of small, insectivorous birds was more likely to strongly conform with expected distributions in relation to area, which was consistent with observations of their vulnerability to the effects of the noisy miner in smaller fragments.
30244545|It is widely believed that contemporary climate determines large-scale patterns of species richness. An alternative view proposes that species richness reflects biotic responses to historic climate changes. These competing "contemporary climate" vs "historic climate" hypotheses have been vigorously debated without reaching consensus. Here, we test the proposition that European species richness of reptiles and amphibians is driven by climate changes in the Quaternary. We find that climate stability between the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) and the present day is a better predictor of species richness than contemporary climate; and that the 0C isotherm of the LGM delimits the distributions of narrow-ranging species, whereas the current 0C isotherm limits the distributions of wide-ranging species. Our analyses contradict previous studies of large-scale species richness patterns and support the view that "historic climate" can contribute to current species richness independently of and at least as much as contemporary climate.
30243138|Predation risk influences prey use of space. However, little is known about how predation risk influences breeding habitat selection and the fitness consequences of these decisions. The nest sites of central-place foraging predators may spatially anchor predation risk in the landscape. We explored how the spatial dispersion of avian predator nests influenced prey territory location and fitness related measures. We placed 249 nest boxes for migrant pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca, at distances between 10 and 630 m, around seven different sparrowhawk nests Accipiter nisus. After closely monitoring flycatcher nests we found that flycatcher arrival dates, nest box occupation rates and clutch size showed a unimodal relationship with distance from sparrowhawk nests. This relationship suggested an optimal territory location at intermediate distances between 330 and 430 m from sparrowhawk nests. Furthermore, pied flycatcher nestling quantity and quality increased linearly with distance from sparrowhawk nests. These fitness related measures were between 4 and 26% larger in flycatcher nestlings raised far from, relative to those raised nearby, sparrowhawk nests. Our results suggest that breeding sparrowhawk affected both flycatcher habitat selection and reproductive success. We propose that nesting predators create predictable spatial variation in predation risk for both adult prey and possibly their nests, to which prey individuals are able to adaptively respond. Recognising predictable spatial variation in perceived predation risk may be fundamental for a proper understanding of predator-prey interactions and indeed prey species interactions.
3683052| A population of the alvar race of the perennial herb, Silene uniflora (Caryophyllaceae), which grows on thin soils in open alvar habitats on the Baltic island of land, SE Sweden, was found to have an extended and more or less bimodal flowering phenology. Large individuals produced flowers during both periods, while small, and presumably young, individuals only produced flowers in either of the two periods, or in part of both. In the early flowering period plants were heavily infested by the seed-predatory larvae of a noctuid moth, Hadena confusa, but in the late flowering period only a small proportion of the fruits was attacked by the seed predators. The proportion of flowers developing into fruits was consistently high throughout the season. Both the number of seeds per capsule and the mass of seeds decreased over the flowering season. However, the germination success of early and late seeds did not differ. Thus, although differing in number of seeds, both early and late flowers contributed to individual reproductive success. Large individuals started to flower early in the season and despite their high loss of seeds in the early part of the summer they contributed a larger number of seeds to the seed pool than smaller and later-flowering individuals. Although selection was acting to favour later flowering during a year with high early seed predation, consistency of date of flower initiation and of relative predation impact on individuals across years was low, suggesting that recurrent selection by seed predators is weak. Seed predation, although heavy, is therefore judged to be unlikely to cause a significant evolutionary response on flowering phenology in this plant. 
3683710|To evaluate whether the abundance of coyotes Canis latrans was influenced by the availability of anthropogenic foods in a humanized landscape, we compared three neighboring areas (hereafter referred to as NA, CA, and SA) under contrasting human pressures within the Santa Monica Mountains of California, USA. We quantified the use of anthropogenic foods by coyotes and assessed local densities within these three regions. Overall, 761 coyote feces were analyzed; identified food items were categorized into 11 food types (7 native and 4 anthropogenic). Though small mammals (lagomorphs and rodents) were the main prey of coyotes in all areas and seasons, log-linear modeling of multiway contingency tables indicates that consumption of anthropogenic foods by coyotes varied significantly throughout study areas. Thus, in the most humanized area (CA; 24% of this region is residential habitat), anthropogenic foods (trash, livestock, domestic fruit) comprised seasonally between 14 and 25% of total items in coyote diets, whereas in the least humanized area (NA; 2% residential) anthropogenic foods only comprised seasonally between 0 and 3% of items. Coyote density, estimated by foot-hold trapping surveys and by genotyping feces, was also highly variable between areas. The heavily human-impacted CA area had the highest coyote density (2.4-
3682983| Crustacean zooplankton (Cladocera, Copepoda) distribution patterns, community composition and response to altitude, temperature, pH and surface area were studied in 17 fishless subarctic ponds in the Kilpisjrvi area, NW Finnish Lapland. Despite their harshness, the ponds harboured diverse groups of zooplankton. Altogether 50 species were found from ice-out in June - August 1994. There was both a marked decline in the species number and a change in the composition of pond communities with increasing altitude and decreasing temperature as well as decreasing pH. Pond surface area was least significant in determining the species composition. Ponds at low elevations harboured up to 21 species while the fell top ponds usually had <10 species. Chydoridaen cladocerans were the most dominant group even though their number greatly diminished in ponds above the timber line. 
3683605| I studied demography in three populations of the clonal, cleistogamous herb Oxalis acetosella during three growing seasons, to assess the impact of seedling recruitment relative to ramet recruitment on its population dynamics. I followed each plant in permanent plots, and stage-classified it according to origin (sexually or vegetatively derived) and reproductive status. I calculated between-year transition probabilities, and sexual and vegetative fecundities, and used them in projection matrix analyses to simulate the development of populations and obtain the elasticity of each life-history event. In general, non-flowering adults was the most numerous stage class and flowering new ramets the rarest, whereas the proportions of the other stage classes varied among populations and years. The negative correlation between plant density and survival was not very strong, and mortality seemed to be largely density-independent. Simulated population growth rates () indicated that one of the populations is declining and the other two are growing, although slowly. The highest elasticities were usually those of stasis in adult plants, whereas elasticities of other matrix entries were low and highly variable.  was positively correlated with the elasticities of seedling production and survival but negatively correlated with the elasticity of adult survival, indicating that seedling recruitment is more favourable for population growth than is adult stasis. There were no correlations between  on the one hand and the elasticities of ramet production and survival on the other. The results suggest that recruitment from seedlings is important for the growth and long-term maintenance of O. acetosella populations, as a complement to the rather low vegetative propagation. In this context cleistogamy is an adaptive strategy, maximizing total seed output. 
3683064|A qualitative survey of the terrestrial bird community (sixty-five species) and a quantitative analysis of the five-diurnal raptor assemblage were carried out on 33 islands of the oceanic Andaman archipelago in the Bay of Bengal. Among seven geographical parameters, island area was the main determinant of species richness for both the whole bird community and each category of species associated with four habitat types. Species richness decreased most markedly with island size in the smallest islands and in open habitat species. The rarest forest species were the most extinction prone with decreasing island size. Specific habitat selection was the most prominent ecological correlate of inter island species distribution. Observed species distribution patterns did not fit the random species placement or equiprobable occurrence hypotheses. Raptors were primarily forest species, two of them restricted to forest interior, two more tolerant of fragmentation and one naturally associated with mangroves. Unexpectedly, the two rarest and most area sensitive raptors were the two smallest species with a strong active flight, whereas the most abundant and widespread species was the most forest interior and endemic taxon. Both raptor species richness, species frequency of occurrence and abundance indices decreased with island area, which was consistently the most significant determinant of every species' occurrence and abundance. There was a significant correlation between abundance or frequency of occurrence of every raptor species and the proportion of their preferred habitat type. No relationship was found between habitat niche breadth or local abundance of any species and their distribution range among islands. The hypothesis of random composition of species assemblages on islands was not supported because of species specific habitat selection. Any evidence of interspecific competitive exclusion was limited to the striking habitat segregation of the two congeneric serpent eagles. A metapopulation structure was suggested by small population distribution patterns, observed sea crossing and the circumstances of an apparent extinction.
3683397| Although habitat studies are essential for species management, little is known about temporal and spatial variation in the wildlife-habitat relationships. This paper explores annual variation in habitat preferences of and relative quality for diurnal raptors and owls. A review of 772 published sources showed that habitat  year interaction had been analysed in only 10% of habitat quality and 5% of habitat preference studies. Two major factors behind the year-effects were the fluctuations in rainfall and prey base, which together influenced a wide variety of species. Yet, 67% of studies had pooled data from different years and 17% relied on data from only one year. The conclusions of the review were validated by analysing a typical situation for which habitat  year interactions could be expected - habitat quality in a vole-specialized raptor, the common buzzard Buteo buteo, in an area of regularly fluctuating vole abundance. According to eleven-year data, the relationships between buzzard productivity and landscape characteristics were distinct between years. Habitat impact was more clear during vole-poor years, when successful buzzards bred in landscapes having diverse land cover, no wetlands and no conspecifics around. In contrast, during vole peaks, better young production was related to homogeneous landscapes. When years were pooled, the relationships were concealed and habitat quality model became not significant. Selecting "poor-year habitat" or "rich-year habitat" seemed to give a similar reproductive output for the buzzards in the long-term. The results indicate that one-year approaches to wildlife-habitat relationships can easily lead to erroneous conclusions, significant habitat relationships may become lost in pooled data, and the most typical situations that need annually explicit approach can be recognized while planning the studies. 
3683393|We examined differences in riparian and aquatic environments within the three dominant vegetation patch types of the Mattole River watershed, a <tex-math>$789\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> mixed conifer-deciduous (hardwood) forest and grassland-dominated landscape in northwestern California, USA. Riparian and aquatic environments, and particularly microclimates therein, influence the distributions of many vertebrate species, particularly the physiologically-restricted ectotherms - reptiles and amphibians (herpetofauna), and fishes. In addition to being a significant portion of the native biodiversity of a landscape, the presence and relative numbers of these more tractable small vertebrates can serve as useful metrics of its "ecological health." Our primary objective was to determine the range of available riparian and aquatic microclimatic regimes, and discern how these regimes relate to the dominant vegetations that comprise the landscape mosaic. A second objective, reported in a companion paper, was to examine relationships between available microclimatic regimes and herpetofaunal distributions. Here we examined differences in the composition, structure, and related environmental attributes of the three dominant vegetation types, both adjacent to and within the riparian corridors along 49 tributaries. Using automated dataloggers, we recorded hourly water and air temperatures and relative humidity throughout the summer at a representative subset of streams; providing us with daily means and amplitudes for these variables within riparian environments during the hottest period. Although the three vegetation types that dominate this landscape each had unique structural attributes, the overlap in plant species composition indicates that they represent a seral continuum. None-the-less, we found distinct microclimates in each type. Only riparian within late-seral forests contained summer water temperatures that could support cold-water-adapted species. We evaluated landscape-level variables to determine the best predictors of water temperature as represented by the maximum weekly maximum temperature (MWMT). The best model for predicting MWMT (adj. <tex-math>${\rm R}^{2}=0.69$</tex-math>) consisted of catchment area, aspect, and the proportion of non-forested (grassland) patches. Our model provides a useful tool for management of cold-water fauna (e.g. salmonids, stream amphibians) throughout California's "Mediterranean" climate zone.
3683449|A transplant experiment was performed to investigate whether differences in life-history traits of the bryophyte Pogonatum dentatum that recently expanded its distribution range, were genetically or environmentally determined, or a combination of both. Plants were transplanted reciprocally between the original mountain area and a recently colonised lowland area. Vegetative biomass of annual segments and branches tended to be higher in the mountain area than in the lowland area. Reproductive investment was higher for plants transplanted to the lowland area, and lowland shoots tended to produce larger sporophytes than mountain shoots when placed in the same environment. Age of reproducing shoots showed no consistent pattern. Native shoots were often outperformed by non-native shoots transplanted into the same site. Non-native shoots grew larger and produced larger sporophytes than native shoots. Much of the observed variation was at the site level instead of between mountain and lowland areas, with both genetic origin and environmental effects contributing together. Range expansion of P. dentatum may have taken place by dispersal from populations with shoots whose growth is plastic. Such shoots grow larger and potentially produce more spores for dispersal.
3683261| Many studies have been done on seed production as a function of population density in wild plants. Most of them show a higher seed-set per flower of densely growing plants. In this study, in a gynodioecious Silene uniflora (Caryophyllaceae) population on the Baltic island of land, high plant density did not increase fruit-set or seed-set. Instead, the total number of seeds set was slightly higher for widely scattered plants as a result of a somewhat lower number of ovules per flower in densely growing plants. Individuals had nothing to gain by growing close together, because there was no reproductive parameter which could compensate for the low ovule number per flower of closely growing plants. Plant size determined the total seed production of individuals, but did not correlate with any of the fitness components studied per flower basis. The different gender morphs showed the same pattern, which is discussed as a comparison with pollen limitation in self-compatible and self-incompatible plants. 
3682875|Species may differ in the relationship between the numbers of breeding pairs present and woodland area, because the proportion of a wood that forms suitable habitat will vary with woodland size. In this paper, we examine the pattern of variation in abundance with woodland area for eight breeding bird species, and also show how this pattern varied between years. During 1990-1997, we made annual censuses of 53-160 woods, of up to 10 ha in size, and fitted a power function to describe the relationships between numbers of breeding pairs and woodland area. Seven of the eight species, blackbird Turdus merula, dunnock Prunella modularis, wren Troglodytes troglodytes, great tit Parus major, chaffinch Fringilla coelebs, robin Erithacus rubecula and blue tit Parus caeruleus showed a pattern of proportionally higher numbers in smaller woods. Only long-tailed tit Aegithalos caudatus occurred in proportionally higher numbers in larger woods. Blackbird and dunnock showed a trend towards lower numbers in large woods during years with low regional population levels; for these species large woods may provide sub-optimal habitat. Great tit, blue tit, chaffinch and robin showed the opposite trend, towards lower numbers in small woods during years with low regional population levels; for these species small woods may provide sub-optimal habitat. Wren and long-tailed tit, which also showed large annual population fluctuations, showed no change in distribution with regional population level. In great tit and chaffinch, the distribution of pairs in any one year may have been influenced by site fidelity producing a lag in the response associated with regional population levels.
30244513|For the last years scale issues have contributed to the understanding of the complex organization of communities. In practice however the choice of observational scales remains one of the major issues of discussion among ecologists. Case studies showing the implications of tuning up the observational scales are still needed to illustrate the crucial role played by sampling designs on the perception of population and community variability. On the ground of simulations on real data sets, this paper presents empirical evidence showing how the abundance patterns of benthic intertidal species change according to the scale (grain size and extent) of observation. A field experimental study was carried out in which abundance of rocky shore intertidal benthic species and physical factors associated to the substratum were recorded in contiguous quadrats (5 x 10 cm) along three 100-m transect lines. Subsampling routines were developed to generate different scale scenarios by monotonically increasing the grain size and extent of the data. Results showed that: 1) changes in the observational grain size and extent convey different information about the spatial patterning of the recorded factors, and 2) the strength of the relationship between species abundance and physical factors tends to decrease as extent increase. Under the continuous simulations of scale scenarios along transects, variance estimation was the criterion adopted to make explicit the degree of precision in patterns description obtained by each scale scenario. The experimental variogram demonstrated to be a useful statistic for estimating the variance associated with discrete levels along the continuous varying function of scale.
3683130| Multivariate statistical methods were used to elucidate which environmental factors influence the activity patterns of free-living Malayan pit vipers, Calloselasma rhodostoma. Fourteen adult snakes were implanted with miniature radiotransmitters and located a total of 887 times in 5 months. The pit vipers usually remained coiled on the ground for several consecutive days before moving at night to a new site. Partial correlation tests revealed that the frequency and distance of movements to new sites by tagged snakes were highly positively correlated with ambient relative humidity, but not with rainfall, ambient temperature or the lunar cycle. This finding was corroborated by the frequency with which active non-tagged C. rhodostoma were encountered at night. In each site, the proportion of the snakes' bodies exposed to view was positively correlated with ambient humidity, and the snakes retreated to areas with deeper undergrowth when ambient humidity was low. Overt thermoregulatory behaviour was not observed, and implanted thermosensitive transmitters revealed that the snakes were passive thermoconformers. These findings seem to contradict much of the current literature which shows temperature to be the dominant abiotic factor affecting reptilian activity, but most herpetologists have considered only temperate forms. Ambient temperature in our tropical study site was warm and relatively constant throughout the year (mean daily range = 24-33C), so the pit vipers could passively maintain body temperature within a fairly narrow range, with a daytime mean of 29.4C. Ambient relative humidity, on the other hand, was very variable, and confining exposure and activity to periods of high ambient humidity may be necessary to avoid dehydration. 
3683252|We investigated whether the occurrence of the flying squirrel, a declined virgin forest species, was accounted for by the structure of the landscape in northeastern Finland. We sampled 20 forest areas (1 -
3682833|Previous studies of avian nest predation have focused on how human-induced changes in the landscape influence the frequency of predation. However, natural variation in the abundance of predators due to their choice of habitat can also influence predation rate. To determine if predation on artificial nests was influenced by forest stand type, we placed ground and shrub nests containing quail and plasticine eggs in contiguous coniferous, mixedwood and deciduous stands in the southern boreal mixedwood forest of central Canada. Nest predators were identified using remotely triggered cameras and marks left in plasticine eggs, while the relative abundance of nest predators such as squirrels and corvids were estimated using acoustic-visual surveys. Using the fate of quail eggs to calculate predation rate, we found that predation was significantly higher in coniferous (67%) than in deciduous (17%) or mixedwood (25%) forest, with similar predation on ground (37%) and shrub (29%) nests. Using plasticine eggs to calculate predation rate, nests in coniferous forest still suffered higher rates of predation, although predation rates were 15-20% higher, and ground nests suffered significantly higher rates of predation than shrub nests. Quail eggs seemed to suffer lower rates of predation because small mammals were unable to penetrate the shell, but could leave marks on plasticine eggs. The higher predation rate in coniferous forest was likely caused by higher abundance of red squirrels Tamiasciurus hudsonicus, the presence of fishers Martes pennanti and a simplified understory which may have made it easier for predators to find nests relative to the deciduous and mixedwood forest. Plasticine eggs provide new insights into nest predation by identifying predation events by smaller predators such as mice that are missed when using quail eggs.
30243192|Biological similartiy typically decreases with geographical distance. Despite the recent attention to the distance decay relationship, there is no consensus on how the relationship varies across organism groups, geographic gradients and environments. We first conducted a quantitative meta-analysis of 401 distance decay relationships across a wide range of organisms, ecosystems and geographical gradients, and then united the effects of categorical and continuous variables on the rate of distance decay using a general linear model (GLM). As effect sizes we used the similarity at one km distance (initial similarity) and the distance that halves the similarity from its value at one km distance (halving distance). Both the initial similarity and halving distance were significantly affected by variables characterizing the spatial scale, organism properties, study region and ecosystem concerned. The patterns appear robust as the results of meta-analysis and GLM only differed in marginal details. According to GLM with Akaike's information criterion, the most parsimonious models explained 55.3 and 37.6% of variance in initial similarity and halving distance, respectively. Across large scales, similarity was decreasing slightly faster at high latitudes than at low latitudes, while small-scale turnover was higher at low latitudes. We also found significant differences in initial similarity among the realms, with terrestrial systems showing higher small-scale beta diversity. The decrease in community similarity at large scales was higher among organisms that are actively mobile than among passively dispersed organisms. We conclude that regression of similarity against distance unites several ecological phenomena such as dispersal propensity and environmental structuring, and provides an effective approach for gauging the spatial turnover across sites. We also found that the patterns in beta-diversity are highly scale-dependent.
3682827|Diatoms, chrysophyte scales and cysts, and the siliceous plates of thecoamoebae were studied from the surface sediments of 20 freshwater habitats in Fennoscandia. The study sites are distributed along a latitudinal transect extending from southern Finland to northern Norway, spanning boreal forest through arctic tundra vegetational zones. Diatom assemblages were usually dominated by acidophilic, periphytic members of the genera Achnanthes, Fragilaria and Navicula. Marked shifts in diatom assemblage composition were recorded along the latitudinal transect, whereas scaled chrysophytes were rare in all study sites. Meanwhile, siliceous protozoa were common, but did not exhibit any noticeable trends in assemblage composition with changing latitude. A comparison of the Fennoscandian diatom assemblages with those recorded from freshwater sites near Yellowknife (central Northwest Territories, Canada) revealed similar trends in diatom assemblage composition with changing ecoclimatic zones in both regions. Moreover, canonical correspondence analysis showed that diatom assemblages in cold, dilute tundra sites were effectively separated from sites with forested catchments from both the Fennoscandian and Canadian transects. The general similarity between the two regions suggests that autecological data and the resulting environmental transfer functions based on diatom assemblages may eventually be joined from North American and European regions.
3682823|We compare the ecological and habitat characteristics of alien and native vascular plants which have recently expanded in range in England, Scotland, the Republic of Ireland and the Netherlands. In the great majority of respects, expanding aliens and natives are functionally indistinguishable. However, there are a few consistent differences: aliens are more likely than natives to be clonal, polycarpic perennials with erect, leafy stems, and to have transient seed banks. We discuss these trends in the context of the difficulties faced by aliens in invading mostly closed plant communities in relatively cool, damp climates. Our results are consistent with some predictions of the attributes of 'ideal' invaders, but contradict others. We argue that the ecological attributes of successful alien invaders are strongly habitat-dependent.
3683680|Climatic variation associated with the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) influences terrestrial and marine ecosystems, but its effects on river and stream ecosystems are less well known. The influence of the NAO on the growth of stream insects was examined using long-term empirical data on the sizes of mayfly and stonefly nymphs and on water temperature data. Models of egg development and nymphal growth in relation to temperature were used to predict the effect of the NAO on phenology. The study was based in two upland streams in mid-Wales UK that varied in the extent of plantation forestry in their catchments. Winter stream temperatures at both sites were positively related to the winter NAO index, being warmer in positive phases and colder in negative phases. The observed mean size and the simulated developmental period of mayfly nymphs were significantly related to the winter NAO index, with nymphs growing faster in positive phases of the NAO, but the growth of stonefly nymphs was not related to the NAO. This may have been due to the semivoltine stonefly lifecycle, but stonefly nymph growth is also generally less dependent on temperature. There were significant differences in growth rates of both species between streams, with nymphs growing more slowly in the forested stream that was consistently cooler than the open stream. Predicted emergence dates for adult mayflies varied by nearly two months between years, depending on the phase of the NAO. Variation in growth and phenology of stream insects associated with the NAO may influence temporal fluctuations in the composition and dynamics of stream communities.
30244611|Point pattern analyses such as the estimation of Ripley's K-function or the pair-correlation function g are commonly used in ecology to characterise ecological patterns in space. However, a major disadvantage of these methods is their missing ability to deal with spatial heterogeneity. A heterogeneous intensity of points causes a systematic bias in estimates of the K- and g-functions, a phenomenon termed "virtual aggregation" in the recent literature. To address this problem, we derive a new index, called K2-index, as an extension of existing point pattern characteristics. The K2-index has a heuristic interpretation as an approximation to the first derivative of the g-function. We estimate the K-, g- and K2-functions for six different types of simulated point patterns and show that the K2-index may provide important information on point patterns that the other methods fail to detect. The results indicate that particularly the small-scale distributions of points are better represented by the K2-index. This might be important for testing hypotheses on ecological processes, because most of these processes, such as direct neighbour interactions, occur very locally. When applied to empirical patterns of molehill distribution, the results of the K2-analysis show regularity up to distances between 0.1 and 0.4 m in most of the study areas, and aggregation of molehills up to distances between 0.2 and 1.1 m. The type and scale of these deviations from randomness agree with a priori expectations on the hill-building behaviour of moles. In contrast, the estimated g-functions merely indicate aggregation at the full range from 0 to 7 m (or even above). Considering the advantages and disadvantages of the different methods, we suggest that the K2-index should be used as a complement to existing approaches, particularly for point patterns generated by processes that act on more than one scale.
3682853|To maintain biodiversity in managed forests we must understand how forestry affects various organisms across a wide range of spatial and temporal scales. We compared landscape structure, forest structure, and species richness and abundance of epiphytic macrolichens in three pairs of natural and managed boreal forest landscapes. Study landscapes (2500 ha) were located within and adjacent to three of the largest forest reserves in Sweden (Reivo, Muddus, Jelka). The structural heterogeneity within landscapes was higher in managed forests whereas within-stand structural heterogeneity was higher in natural landscapes. Species richness of macrolichens at the stand level (sample plot) was 23% higher in natural forests but there was no difference at the landscape level. Most (86%) of the common species were more frequent in natural landscapes. Lichen abundance (estimated by lichen litter) was two times higher in natural than in managed landscapes, 5.6 and 2.7 kg ha
3683098|Introduced species are frequently believed to have adverse effects on native biota and ecosystems. However, much of our knowledge of the ecological impacts of introduced species is anecdotal, and the mechanisms controlling these effects are often poorly understood. I used replicated artificial pond experiments to investigate the impact of eggs and hatchlings of the introduced toad Bufo marinus on populations of native anuran larvae (Limnodynastes ornatus and Litoria rubella) in Australia. Bufo marinus eggs and hatchlings are highly toxic to predatory native tadpoles. Under naturalistic conditions, populations of predatory L. ornatus tadpoles experienced significantly reduced survival when exposed to Bufo eggs and hatchlings. The impact of Bufo on L. ornatus survival was positively correlated with Bufo density. However, the toxic effects of Bufo on L. ornatus indirectly facilitated the survival of later-breeding L. rubella by altering predator-prey interactions between L. ornatus and L. rubella. Limnodynastes ornatus tadpoles are voracious predators of L. rubella eggs and hatchlings. Consequently, the negative impact of Bufo on populations of L. ornatus tadpoles reduced the intensity of predation by L. ornatus tadpoles on L. rubella eggs and hatchlings, thereby increasing L. rubella survival. The results demonstrate that B. marinus plays an important role in structuring native larval anuran communities via direct and indirect mechanisms, and that Bufo may have both negative and positive effects on populations of native anuran larvae. As far as I am aware, these are the first quantitative data to demonstrate that introduced fauna may affect populations of native biota via toxic effects.
3683634|Population changes in long-eared owls Asio otus, polecats Mustela putorius, red foxes Vulpes vulpes, stone martens Martes foina and badgers Meles meles were monitored during a water vole Arvicola terrestris scherman cycle in western Switzerland. Long-eared owls confirmed their status of highly mobile specialist predators in responding strongly and without time lag to water vole population changes. Even though polecats are considered generalists, they exhibited also a strong response to water vole fluctuations. Their numbers tracked water vole densities with a 1-yr time lag. Marked population changes were also recorded in red foxes and stone martens, but these changes were not related to water vole densities. Lastly, badgers did not show any significant population changes during the water vole cycle. We discuss the possible reasons for these differences and conclude that multi-factorial approach is clearly required to understand population processes in predator-prey systems.
3683204|Understanding population dynamics of large mammals requires studies of variation in the age and sex-specific demographic parameters over time and the factors causing this variation. Here, we have focused on the variation in body mass of 8-10-month old red deer calves, in relation to climate and sex over a 20-yr period (1977-1997). We investigated the relationship between body mass and over-winter mortality during 1985 and 1986 and thereby, the phenotypic selection on body mass. We found a high variability from year to year in calf body mass. Males were consistently heavier than females. No interaction between sex and year was detected. The body mass of individuals from the same cohort shot during the annual hunting season and snow depth in January each explained ca 20% of the variability in calf body mass. Body mass loss during winter did not differ between sexes, but increased with body mass and varied from year to year. The probability of surviving was strongly related to body mass in each sex. For a given body mass relative to the sex-specific mean, males had a lower probability of survival than females. Hence, males had to be 1 kg larger than their mean in order to achieve the same survival as average-sized females. Our results suggested a directional phenotypic selection on body mass that led to an increasing body mass dimorphism in calves. The strength of this selection and the sex difference in the shape of the selection curve may depend, however, on the severity of winter and on sexual dimorphism in body mass at the beginning of winter.
3683732|In red deer, variation in winter and spring weather conditions encountered by the mothers during pregnancy and during the first year of life are a main determinant for individual life-history as well as population dynamics. We tested the hypothesis that supplementary feeding which provides constant food supply throughout winter removes the selective pressure of winter harshness on nutrition-mediated phenotypic traits. We analysed cohort variation in body weight in calves in October, before their first winter, and in yearlings in June, after their first winter, in a food-supplemented population in the Eastern Austrian Alps. Over eleven years, cohort body weight varied between years in calves and yearlings. Contrary to studies on non-supplemented red deer populations we found neither short- nor long-term effects of winter weather on body weight. In calves, autumn body weight was negatively related to April-May and June temperatures, suggesting that cool weather during the main growth period retarded plant senescence and thereby prolonged the period of high protein content of summer forage. In yearlings, variation in June body weight, shortly after the end of the feeding period, was lower after a wet April-May, suggesting a negative effect of a prolonged period of supplemental feeding. For both calves and yearlings intra-cohort variation in body weight was higher, inter-cohort variation was lower as compared to non-supplemented red deer, suggesting that in their first year of life supplemented red deer are under reduced natural selection pressure.
30244664|This study provides a Borneo-wide, quantitative assessment of botanical richness and endemicity at a high spatial resolution, and based on actual collection data. To overcome the bias in collection effort, and to be able to predict the presence and absence of species, even for areas where no collections have been made, we constructed species distribution models (SDMs) for all species taxonomically revised in Flora Malesiana. Species richness and endemicity maps were based on 1439 significant SDMs. Mapping of the residuals of the richness-endemicity relationship identified areas with higher levels of endemicity than can be expected on the basis of species richness, the endemicity hotspots. We were able to identify one previously unknown region of high diversity, the high mountain peaks of East Kalimantan; and two additional endemicity hotspots, the Mller Mountains and the Sangkulirang peninsula. The areas of high diversity and endemicity were characterized by a relatively small range in annual temperature, but with seasonality in temperatures within that range. Furthermore, these areas were least affected by El Nio Southern Oscillation drought events. The endemicity hotspots were found in areas, which were ecologically distinct in altitude, edaphic conditions, annual precipitation, or a combination of these factors. These results can be used to guide conservation efforts of the highly threatened forests of Borneo.
3683479|The effect of forest fragmentation was studied in hoverfly communities of 54 isolated forests (0.14-171 ha) in south west France. The positive relationship between species richness and wood patch area was investigated by testing the three hypotheses usually put forward to explain it: 1) the sampling effect hypothesis, 2) the patch heterogeneity hypothesis, 3) the hypothesis of equilibrium between distance from other patch (colonisation) and surface area of the patch (extinction). The syrphid species were divided into 3 ecological groups, based on larval biology as summarized in the "Syrph the Net" database: non forest species, facultative forest species and forest species. A total of 3317 adults belonging to 100 species, were captured in the 86 Malaise traps. Eight species were non forest (N = 16), 65 facultative forest (N = 2803) and 27 forest species (N = 498). Comparison of the slopes of the species-area curves for species richness and species density per forest patch showed a strong sampling effect in the species-area relationship. Wood patch heterogeneity increased with wood patch area and positively influenced hoverflies richness. Less isolated wood patches presented high richness of forest species and low richness of non forest species. Only forest species richness seemed to respond to the equilibrium between surface area and isolation. Depending on which hypothesis explained best the species-area relationship, management recommendations to mitigate fragmentation effects were formulated at various spatial scales and for different stakeholders.
3683416|Classically, hypotheses concerning the distribution of species have been explored by evaluating the relationship between species richness and environmental variables using ordinary least squares (OLS) regression. However, environmental and ecological data generally show spatial autocorrelation, thus violating the assumption of independently distributed errors. When spatial autocorrelation exists, an alternative is to use autoregressive models that assume spatially autocorrelated errors. We examined the relationship between mammalian species richness in South America and environmental variables, thereby evaluating the relative importance of four competing hypotheses to explain mammalian species richness. Additionally, we compared the results of ordinary least squares (OLS) regression and spatial autoregressive models using Conditional and Simultaneous Autoregressive (CAR and SAR, respectively) models. Variables associated with productivity were the most important at determining mammalian species richness at the scale analyzed. Whereas OLS residuals between species richness and environmental variables were strongly autocorrelated, those from autoregressive models showed less spatial autocorrelation, particularly the SAR model, indicating its suitability for these data. Autoregressive models also fit the data better than the OLS model <tex-math>$(\text{increasing}\ {\rm R}^{2}\ \text{by}\ 5-14\%)$</tex-math>, and the relative importance of the explanatory variables shifted under CAR and SAR models. These analyses underscore the importance of controlling for spatial autocorrelation in biogeographical studies.
30244703|The hypothesis of convergence takes the deterministic view that community (or assemblage) structure can be predicted from the environment, and that the environment is expected to drive evolution in a predictable direction. Here we present results of a comparative study of freshwater fish assemblages from headwater streams in four continents (Europe, North America, Africa and South America), with the general objective of testing whether these assemblages display convergent structures under comparable environmental conditions (i.e. assemblage position in the stream longitudinal continuum). We tested this hypothesis by comparing species richness and trophic guilds of those stream fish assemblages represented in available data from multiple sites on each continent. Independent of phylogenetic and historical constraints, fish assemblage richness and trophic structure in the four continents converged along the stream continua to a substantial degree. For the four continents, assemblage richness increased, the proportion of invertivorous species decreased, and the proportion of omnivorous species increased from upstream to downstream, supporting theoretical predictions of the river continuum concept. However, the herbivore/detritivore and piscivore guilds were virtually absent from our small European and North American stream sites, unlike our African and South American stream sites. This divergence can be linked to differences in energy availability between temperate and tropical systems.
3683149|We examined the taxonomic and structural concordance between oribatid mite communities at different sites from around the world using meta-analysis. The study explored similarities in the taxonomic composition and species abundance distributions among oribatid mite communities using 25 published species lists from Africa, Australia, Europe, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand and the United States. The final data set contained 253 genera from 97 families in 43 superfamilies. A second data set, which included only studies where trees were present at the sites, contained 234 genera, 93 families and 41 superfamilies. Composition was analysed at taxonomic levels higher than species. Only two families and four superfamilies were present in > 90% of all studies. Two genera, six families and seven superfamilies were found in all sites with trees. Common families were different among habitats suggesting that habitat preferences may be expressed at the family level. There were very strong relationships between oribatid mite species richness and richness at higher taxonomic levels with r
3682897|The distribution of the systemic fungus Epichloe typhina was studied in natural populations of the host grass Calamagrostis purpurea. By searching for stroma in field and dissecting and staining plant parts in the lab I found that E. typhina was only present in nutrient rich and more wet habitats and totally absent from nutrient poor areas. A greenhouse experiment showed that under high nutrient conditions infected plants produced significantly more shoots than did healthy plants, while no difference was found when plants were grown in low nutrient conditions. Thus, the results suggest that the occurrence as well as the effect of E. typhina is strongly affected by environmental factors similar to the case of other systemic diseases, such as rusts and smuts.
3683523|Changes in the distribution and abundance of bird and small mammal species at urban-wildland edges can be caused by different factors. Edges can affect populations directly if animals respond behaviorally to the edge itself or if proximity to edge directly affects demographic vital rates (an "ecotonal" effect). Alternatively, urban edges can indirectly affect populations if edges alter the characteristics of the adjacent wildland vegetation, which in turn prompts a response to the altered habitat (a "matrix" or "habitat" effect). We studied edge effects of birds and small mammals in southern Californian coastal sage scrub, and assessed whether edge effects were attributable to direct behavioral responses to edges or to animal responses to changes in habitat at edges. Vegetation species composition and structure varied with distance from edge, but the differences varied among study sites. Because vegetation characteristics were correlated with distance from edge, responses to habitat were explored by using independently-derived models of habitat associations to calibrate vegetation measurements to the habitat affinities of each animal species. Of sixteen species examined, five bird and one small mammal species responded to edge independently of habitat features, and thus habitat restoration at edges is expected to be an ineffective conservation measure for these species. Two additional species of birds and one small mammal responded to habitat gradients that coincided with distance from edge, such that the effect of edge on these species was expressed via potentially reversible habitat degradation.
3683275|Many species of honeydew-producing Homopteran insects have mutualistic relationships with ants which defend them against their natural enemies in return for honeydew. In many cases of this type of mutualism (trophobiosis), a particular homopteran can associate with a range of mutualistic ant species. We studied the influence of alternation of two ant species, Lasius niger and Pristomyrmex pungens, both of which are mutualistic partners of the citrus mealybug Pseudococcus citriculus, on population growth of their trophobiont mealybug. The growth rate of the mealybug population was significantly higher with attendance by either ant species than without it throughout the year. However, in the field, the mealybug population was significantly larger on trees where a L. niger colony made its territory than on trees where a P. pungens colony made its territory. When the attending ant species changed from L. niger to P. pungens, the mealybug population significantly decreased compared with the population that L. niger continued to attend. In contrast, the mealybug population increased following the reverse shift, from P. pungens to L. niger. These results indicate that, for the mealybug, L. niger is a more effective mutualistic partner than P. pungens. This deviation was due to a difference in attack behavior by the two ant species. Behavioral responses by attending ants to artificial models of natural enemies were more aggressive in L. niger than in P. pungens. The territories of the two ant species were completely separated, and territory takeovers of one ant species by the other were occasionally observed. These facts suggest that interspecific competition between the two ant species is an important factor in determining the spatial distribution of the two species. Thus, we conclude that interspecific competition between the two ant species indirectly affects the population growth of their common trophobiont mealybug.
3683419|Landscape patterns demonstrate scale-dependent properties that have been parsimoniously described by empirical scaling functions. These functions, derived from multiple-scale analysis of real landscapes, are evaluated here for their generality and robustness via a series of simulated landscapes with known landscape patterns. A factorial design was used to generate these landscapes, varying the number of classes, class abundance distribution, and patch dispersion. The results confirm that the three types of scaling relations were both general and robust. Type I metrics were predictable with simple scaling functions (e.g. power laws or linear functions); Type II metrics showed stair-case like response patterns and were essentially not predictable; Type III metrics exhibited erratic response patterns that were unpredictable in most cases. However, significant differences were found between real and simulated landscapes when landscape extent was increased. Systematic changes in grain size show that the predictability of scaling relations increases with the number of classes, the evenness of class abundance distribution, and the aggregation of patch dispersion. However, random patch dispersion seemed to enhance the predictability of scaling relations when changing spatial extent.
3683402| Area-selection methods have recently gained prominence in conservation biology. A typical problem is to identify the minimum number of areas required to represent all species over some geographic region. Iterative heuristic methods have been developed by conservation scientists to solve these problems, although the solutions cannot be guaranteed to be optimal. Although optimal solutions can often be found, heuristics continue to be popular as they are perceived to be faster and more transparent as they are intuitively easy to understand. We used distributional data for 1921 bird species, 939 mammal species, 405 snake species, and 617 amphibian species compiled at the Zoological Museum, Univ. of Copenhagen for all 1 cells of mainland sub-Saharan Africa to compare the quality of the solutions found using two heuristic methods (simple-greedy algorithm and a progressive-rarity algorithm) with optimal solutions. We found that the heuristic methods considered here often provide solutions as good as optimal solutions. Even in those cases where the optimal solutions were better the difference was relatively small, with the heuristics providing solutions requiring a 2-10% increase in area selected compared with the optimal solution, which importantly, represented an increase of < 1% of the total area. Our study also suggests that the heuristic algorithms performed least well for datasets with few single cell endemics and taxa that tend to have larger range sizes. Despite the good quality of solutions using heuristics there was no time penalty associated with finding optimal solutions for the problems considered here, suggesting that the major obstacle to their use is making optimal methods accessible to conservation biologists. We encourage conservation biologists to work with operations researchers and so gain the benefit of their expertise and experience in solving these kinds of problems. 
3683220|We studied the structure of spider assemblages in fragments of old coniferous forest in the southern Finnish taiga. We sampled spiders with pitfall traps in the interiors and in the edges of the old-forest patches and in the surrounding managed forests. We surveyed assemblages of ground-dwelling spiders and the relation of species to formerly mentioned three forest-habitat categories. We analysed spider assemblages in relation to vegetation structure as well. As in forest spiders there are no habitat specialists, no strict old-forest species were found. However, the spider assemblages of old forests were different from those in the surrounding managed forests. The difference was attributable to habitat differences, mainly to reduced tree-canopy cover in managed forests. Large hunting-spider species (Gnaphosidae, Lycosidae) benefitted from clearcutting and other management measures, whereas the catches of small forest-living species (Linyphiidae) decreased in plantations and open forests. The hunters colonized the edges of old-forest fragments, and were seldom found in the interior of old forest. Size of old-forest fragment did not affect significantly the spider assemblage. The results indicate that a buffer zone of mature forest with closed canopy should be left to surround the old-growth reserves in order to minimize the edge effect in the fragments.
3683597|Dispersal and life span of individual plant species within five plant communities were assessed to obtain a characterization of these communities in this respect. Such a characterization is important in the context of restoration and maintenance. The most frequent species of five communities were ranked in eight classes according to their level of seed dispersal capability, their seed bank formation (dispersal in time and space) and their individual life span. In the communities, all eight classes were found, but communities differed in the distribution of the species over the classes. A theoretical framework was constructed to use the level of specialization of plant species in terms of dispersal in space and time, and life span, to define the characteristics of safe site dynamics within communities. Following simple rules, the relative reliability of the occurrence of safe sites in space and time was defined. After that, the relative reliability of the habitat was linked to the best fitting combination of trait specialization level. Having defined this link, communities could be characterized in a comparative way by their level and pattern of reliability of the opportunities for recruitment in space and time. The meaning of the coexistence of a range of trait combinations in one community was discussed. It was postulated that habitat reliability can explain this by assuming that the habitat of the community is part of a larger system, or consists of several "subsystems". These insights need to be considered in nature conservation. Succession and also specializations beyond the scope of dispersal and life span may influence the occurrence of species in a seemingly unfit habitat (for instance the occurrence of semi parasitic annuals in a community of perennials, because they use the perennial root system of other species). Finally, the meaning of safe site reliability in space and time in the context of restoration of communities was discussed. The reliability in space and time may be different today from that of the past, which restricts the feasibility of restoration of communities.
3683862|During the past several centuries, forests in Europe and large parts of North America have been subject to extensive forest clearance. The last several decades, however, numerous new forest patches have been established onto former agricultural land. As a result, the present forest area often consists of a mixture of small forest patches of different age, area, habitat quality and connectivity embedded within a hostile agricultural landscape. In these patchy landscapes, distribution patterns of plant species may be affected by both regional and local factors, although the relative importance of both is still poorly understood. In this study, we investigated distribution patterns of 113 forest plant species in a fragmented landscape. Species abundances at the regional scale conformed to a clearly unimodal abundance distribution which we believe to be related to 1) environmental heterogeneity due to succession and 2) inequality in migration rates. Patch incidence was significantly related to life form, which in turn was correlated to seed mass and dispersal mechanism. Multiple logistic regressions showed that presence/absence of 59 species studied was significantly affected by patch connectivity, patch area and age for 35, 30 and 34 species, respectively. The results of this study indicate that distribution patterns of forest plant species are influenced by both local and regional factors. Moreover, they also demonstrate that next to spatial aspects of fragmentation, temporal patterns of landscape change may have far-reaching effects on presence/absence patterns of plant species and therefore should be incorporated in studies dealing with regional population structures of plants.
3683739|This experimental study focuses on why old-forest lichens such as Lobaria scrobiculata and Platismatia norvegica are scarce in younger spruce stands. Understanding the factors limiting the distribution of species is important for developing appropriate methods for forest management aiming to maintain biodiversity. A successful growth of L. scrobiculata and P. norvegica was found in the young planted stand as the rate of growth did not differ between the young stand and the old spruce forest where they naturally occurred, during 14 months of transplantation. In the young forest environment, L. scrobiculata showed a significantly higher specific thallus weight, and a slightly higher water-holding capacity. This morphological response is probably due to a higher light exposure in the young stand and consequently a higher rate of desiccation. The ubiquitous species Platismatia glauca showed a significantly higher rate of growth in the young forest than in the old forest, and a positive relationship between growth rate and light exposure was found. This transplant study has shown that the environmental conditions in younger planted forests are not necessarily unfavourable for growth of old-forest lichens. Other factors, such as limited dispersal ability and poor diaspore production, are probably important for explaining the species scarcity in younger stands.
3683233|In freshwaters in Northern Ireland, several amphipods occur, with the native Gammarus duebeni celticus and introduced Gammarus pulex and Crangonyx pseudogracilis often being found together in the same river and lake systems. We examined what may happen when the three amphipod species co-occur within the same patch of lake or pooled area of a river. We conducted a laboratory simulation of a lake/river habitat, and this showed that G. d. celticus and G. pulex exhibited very similar distribution patterns to one another, when presented with the same complex habitat template. Such microdistribution patterns contrasted markedly with the microhabitat usage by C. pseudogracilis. Cannibalism was low for all species in both single and mixed species treatments. Intraguild predation (IGP) was also very low on both G. pulex and G. d. celticus when all three species co-occurred. However, C. pseudogracilis suffered heavy IGP from both Gammarus species, with 33% of the tank population of C. pseudogracilis being eliminated in the presence of Gammarus within only 12 h. Such IGP may account for C. pseudogracilis occurring more frequently and in greater abundance in patches of natural lotic and lentic systems where predatory Gammarus are either absent or scarce.
3682839|We studied the winter foraging niches of tits and related species in deciduous forest fragments varying in size between 1 and 30 ha (plus one forest of 200 ha) in order to investigate the influence of forest fragmentation on foraging niches. Very few correlations between niche structure (foraging niche, width and overlap) and forest size or isolation turned out to be significant. This implies that either the species that disappear in small fragments are those that suffer most from competition (making the effect unmeasurable), or that competition is relatively unimportant for niche structure. In any case we find no evidence that foraging niches are strongly affected by the changes (in habitat and/or community structure) associated with fragmentation.
3683400|In this paper, I analyse the interaction between the holm-oak Quercus ilex, and one of its main dispersers, the European jay Garrulus glandarius, in an heterogeneous Mediterranean landscape. I quantify the spatial dispersal pattern of the seed shadow at two spatial scales, landscape (among patches) and microhabitat (within patches), by directly tracking the movement of seeds. Two main traits of the jay-mediated dispersal of holm-oak acorns across the landscape, the spatial pattern of dissemination and the distance from the source tree, are significantly and directly influenced by jay activity. Jays moved acorns nonrandomly, avoiding one main patch type of the study area to cache acorns, the shrubland-grasslands, and moving most of the acorns to pine stands, whether afforestation or open pinewoods. Within each patch type, jays had also a strong preference for caching acorns in some microhabitats, since > 95% of the acorns dispersed by jays were cached beneath pines. The distance of holm-oak acorn dispersal was long in the study site, over 250 m, with some dispersals occurring up to 1 km from the source oaks. The shape of the dispersal kernel function fitted to the dispersal pattern produced by jays differed from those quantified for many other plant species. Jay-mediated dispersal had two components, one local and another produced by long-distance dispersal. Due to the heterogeneity of these Mediterranean environments, this difference in scale overlaps with a difference in habitat composition, short distances events resulting in dispersals within the same oak stands and long distance events resulting in dispersal outside of oak stands, usually to other vegetation units. Jay activity and movement pattern can have thus dramatic effects on both the local regeneration as well as the potential for regional spread of the holm-oak populations.
30244550|In naturally fragmented, isolated, or patchily distributed habitats that contain non-vagile organisms, we expect dispersal to be limited, and patterns of diversity to differ from similar, yet continuous habitats. We explored the alpha-beta-gamma relationship and community composition of oribatid mites (Acari: Oribatida) inhabiting spatially discrete canopy suspended soils, and compared the patterns of diversity with the continuous forest floor soils over two years. We explored dispersal limitation for oribatid mites in the canopy by using additive partitioning of species richness at multiple spatial scales. ANOSIM was used to demonstrate differences in oribatid mite community composition between the canopy and forest floor habitats over different sampling periods. Community composition of oribatid mites differed significantly between canopy and forest floor habitats, by season and yearly sampling period. Oribatid mite richness and abundance were positively correlated with substrate moisture content, particularly in the canopy. Richness and abundance of ground oribatid mites was greater in September than in June, a trend that is reversed in the canopy, suggesting canopy oribatid mite species may have altered life histories to take advantage of earlier moisture conditions. Alpha diversity of oribatid mites in the canopy was lower than the ground at all sampling levels, and not significantly different from a random distribution in either habitat. Beta diversity was greater than expected from a random distribution at the patch- and tree-level in the canopy suggesting dispersal limitation associated with physical tree-to-tree dispersal barriers, and limited dispersal among patches within a tree. Beta diversity at the tree-level was the largest contribution to overall species richness in both canopy and ground habitats, and was also greater than expected on the ground. These results suggest that factors other than physical dispersal barriers, such as aggregation, habitat availability, and environmental factors (moisture), may limit the distribution of species in both habitats.
3683188|The reproductive ecology of three colonies of pallid swift in a warm continental climate (Piedmont, NW-Italy) was studied over a ten years period. About 60% of the clutches were laid in late May and June, but continued until late August and September, when some females laid a second clutch. Clutch size and the mean number of fledged young decreased progressively from spring to autumn. Laying dates were influenced by rain and temperature: unfavourable weather conditions during May induced most females to postpone egg laying until June. Clutch size was not related to the rain or temperature parameters considered. These observations differ from the findings about the common swift studied in cool temperate areas, where a very short stay in the breeding colonies does not allow a delay in laying, and spring weather conditions therefore have a strong influence on clutch size. There are also differences about the effect of weather on chick rearing. In warmer climates, typical of our colonies, fledging success is hindered both by too dry or too rainy seasons, even if these situations very rarely occur and the three-egg clutch is always the most productive. In colder climates the breeding success of the common swift depends primarily on the climatic conditions of May, and in bad weather a two-egg clutch is more productive than a clutch of three. In summary, the annual breeding success of the pallid swift appears little influenced by weather changes, due to a lesser impact of adverse conditions in Southern climates and the possibility, for this species, of shifting the laying period in response to a temporary worsening of climatic conditions.
3683429|Regularities in species richness are widely observed but controversy continues over its mechanistic explanation. Because richness patterns are usually a compound measure derived from taxonomically diverse species with different ecological requirements, these analyses may confound diverse causes of species numbers. Here we investigate species richness in the aquatic beetle fauna of Europe, separating major taxonomic groups and two major ecological types, species occurring in standing and running water bodies. We collated species distributions for 800 + species of water beetles in 15 regions across western Europe. Species number in any of these regions was related to three variables: total area size, geographic connectedness of the area, and latitude. Pooled species numbers were accurately predicted, but correlations were different for species associated with either running or standing water. The former were mostly correlated with latitude, while the latter were only correlated with the measure of connectedness or with area size. These differences were generally also observed in each of the four phylogenetically independent lineages of aquatic Coleoptera when analysed separately. We propose that effects of habitat, in this case possibly mediated by different long term persistence of running and standing water bodies, impose constraints at the population or local level which, if effective over larger temporal and spatial scales, determine global patterns of species richness.
3683611|The factors causing spatial variation in species richness remain poorly known. In this study, factors affecting species richness of palms (Palmae/Arecaceae) were studied along the elevational gradient of New Guinea. Interpolated elevational ranges were calculated from a database of all known collections for 145 species in 32 genera. The amount of land area at different elevations greatly affects the species richness gradient. If assessed in equal-elevation bands species richness appears to decline monotonically, but when assessed in equal-area bands species richness shows a pronounced mid-elevation peak, due to the large proportion of lowlands in New Guinea. By randomising species ranges within the total elevational gradient for palms and accounting for area, we found the mid-elevation peak to be consistent with a mid-domain effect caused by the upper and lower limits to palm distribution. Our study illustrates the importance of accounting for area in macroecological studies of richness gradients and introduces a novel yet simple method for doing this through the use of equal-area bands. Together, the effect of area and the mid-domain effect explain the majority of variation in species richness of New Guinea palms. We support calls for the multivariate assessment of the mid-domain effect on an equal footing with other potential explanations of species richness.
3683328|This study concerns the mass balance in hummocks and hollows on three ombrotrophic boreonemoral bogs in both a short (ca 10 yr) and long (1000 yr) time scale. Nitrogen,
3682801|The effect of altitudinal range, distance to the latitudinal boundary of geographical range, body size and larval food plant on both the distribution and abundance of butterflies have been studied in a mountain area along a marked altitudinal gradient. Multiple regression analysis revealed that distribution was positively related to altitudinal range and abundance. Altitudinal range accounted for a great part of variance in species distribution. Altitudinal range increased as both distance to latitudinal boundary of geographical range and body size increased. Abundance was not affected by altitudinal range, body size or distance to latitudinal boundary. Larval food plants family was related to the abundance of butterflies, but not to distribution or altitudinal range. These results suggest that regional distributions of butterflies are likely to be limited by climatic tolerances of species, while local abundance might be influenced by local resource levels.
3683848|Recently three biogeographical units were identified along the Chilean coast (the Magellanic Province, an Intermediate Area, and the Peruvian Province), however few studies have focused on the factors and dynamic processes that formed these spatial units (e.g. Rapoport's rule and its causal mechanisms). In this study we used benthic polychaetes of the Chilean coast to evaluate patterns of latitudinal distribution and species richness, and the existence of the three main biogeographical provinces described for the Chilean coast. Additionally, we evaluated the latitudinal Rapoport effects and geometric constraint as a null hypothesis explaining the species richness distribution. We found that benthic polychaete diversity increased towards southern latitudes. The cluster and ordination (non-metric MultiDimensional Scaling, nMDS) analyses of the distribution data, presented only two statistically significant (bootstrapping techniques) biogeographic provinces along the Chilean coast, with a break occurring between 41 and 42S. While, our results did not support a latitudinal Rapoport effect, they did support the view that latitudinal Rapoport effects are a local phenomenon, occurring only for the Northeastern Pacific marine taxa. The relationship between latitudinal range extent and mean latitude indicated the existence of two hard boundaries at either extreme of the Chilean coast, limiting the geographical ranges of the species. However, geometric constraints tested using a Monte Carlo simulation approach showed a weak level of mid-domain effect on species richness. Finally, we propose that geometric constraint together with the geomorphology and historical characteristics of the Chilean coast explain the biogeographical patterns of benthic polychaete taxa in Chile.
3683498|Orchid Island, 92 km off the southeast coast of Taiwan, has the northernmost tropical forests in East Asia. We assessed effects of habitat management by Orchid Island inhabitants, the Yami people, on spider diversity by comparing assemblages collected from the ground to canopy among four habitats (natural forest, cultivated woodland, second growth forest and grasslands) that receive different degrees of disturbance. Species and guild composition did not differ among replicates of habitat but differed significantly among habitats. Variation in spider diversity was inversely correlated with vegetation density. Cultivated woodland subjected to an intermediate level of disturbances had a lower understory vegetation density than natural forest, but higher spider diversity. Neither insect abundance nor biomass varied significantly among habitats suggesting little room for effects of prey availability on spider diversity. It appears that the Yami people maintain high spider diversity on Orchid Island by generating novel habitat types with different vegetation structures and disturbance regimes.
3683827|We investigated responses of ant communities to habitat complexity, with the aim of assessing complexity as a useful surrogate for ant species diversity. We used pitfall traps to sample ants at twenty-eight sites, fourteen each of low and high habitat complexity, spread over ca 12 km in Sydney sandstone ridge-top woodland in Australia. Ant species richness was higher in low complexity areas, and negatively associated with ground herb cover, tree canopy cover, soil moisture and leaf litter. Ant community composition was affected by habitat complexity, with morphospecies from the genera Monomorium, Rhytidoponera and Meranoplus being the most significant contributors to compositional differences. Functional group responses to anthropogenic disturbance may be facilitated by local changes in habitat complexity. Habitat complexity, measured as a function of differences in multiple strata in forests, may be of great worth as a surrogate for the diversity of a range of arthropod groups including ants.
3682992|We examine the possible impact of intense, periodic predation by the semipalmated sandpiper Calidris pusilla, on the life history patterns of its amphipod prey, Corophium volutator. We compare populations from two mudflats, one of which is visited by shorebirds on their annual migration south, and one which physically appears very similar but is not visited by the birds. The Corophium population exposed to intense predation had two distinct peaks in density within the season, corresponding to two generations, and the two cohorts had constrained size distributions, and relatively synchronized timing of reproduction. On the mudflat not visited by sandpipers, densities increased in spring and then remained constant through summer. Reproduction was continuous. The mid-summer decline in amphipod density on the mudflat used by sandpipers could not be attributed directly to sandpiper predation as had been previously argued. We interpret the decline as the result of a synchronized natural die-off after reproduction. Selective predation on large amphipods may contribute to the second peak in density by increasing juvenile survivorship due to the removal of competing adults. Size-selective predation by sandpipers causes the overwintering cohort to have a restricted size range in the autumn, and this synchrony persists through to the reproductive period of the following spring. We do not exclude the possibility that these differences in life history have been influenced in an evolutionary sense by the long history of intense periodic predation.
3682941|Neither theoretical nor descriptive approaches to the study of feeding resources have established whether throughout their range species exploit resources with particular characteristics, and whether resource use is opportunistic, selective or determined by competition among consumers. I studied 7 southern European communities of 3-6 breeding species of herons. Foraging habitats and prey types varied widely among regions for each heron species, while prey weights varied less. Principal Components Analysis characterized each heron species by its use of a specific key resource, composed of combinations of prey size, foraging habitat and prey type, in order of decreasing importance. The largest herons (grey and purple) and the smallest (squacco heron) were characterized by specific prey weights and types, while the intermediate sized herons (little egret and night heron) were characterized by prey types and foraging habitats. Similarities among heron species in habitat use, prey types and prey weights were significantly higher than random in only a few species-pairs, and no value was significantly lower than random. Aggressions were infrequent both against conspecifics and heterospecifics. When compared with explicit predictions of the hypotheses that resource use is shaped by opportunism, independent selectivity, or inter-species competition, the patterns observed indicate that heron species, although partially selective for prey size, tend opportunistically to use similar habitats and prey types, presumably the most profitable and locally abundant. Little evidence was found for competitively constrained resource use. Herons in southern Europe may not be limited by feeding resources during breeding, although some evidence (significant overlaps, exclusion from colonies) indicates ongoing competition between grey and purple herons.
3682792| Earth system scientists have recently concluded that anthropogenic induced climate change is detectable. Because many aspects of an organism's ecology and evolution are influenced by environmental temperature, this suggests temperature mediated changes may be already occurring in natural ecosystems. Using archived mammal trapping and meteorological data, we investigated local changes in climate over the past 8 yr at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in an arid region of New Mexico to determine i) if environmental conditions had altered, ii) if mean body mass of woodrats had changed over this time period, and iii) if the answers to i) and ii) were positive, were the results correlated? Body mass was chosen because it is highly sensitive to temperature and many crucial ecological and evolutionary parameters are affected by it. Our results indicate that winter temperature measures (average cold and minimum), and maximum summer temperature have changed significantly over the past 8 yr. Summer and winter temperatures have both increased by ca 2.5 to 3C. When compared to long-term means, all years have had significantly warmer than average minimum temperatures. Mean body mass of woodrat populations has also changed significantly over the past 8 yr, and the changes are negatively correlated with both winter and summer temperatures. We predict that additional climatic warming will lead to further decreases in the mean body mass of woodrats at the Sevilleta NWR. Since many important ecological parameters are tightly linked with body mass (e.g. fecundity, dietary strategy, home range, extinction rates, energetic requirements, predation risk, etc.), our results suggest that further climate change may lead to profound alterations in woodrat life history, and indirectly, on the dynamics and structure of the entire community. This is in addition to any direct effect temperature may have on other plants and animals. 
30244687|The goal of the present study is to assess how landscape configuration influenced the distribution of life-history traits across bird, carabid beetle and butterfly communities of mosaic forest landscapes in south-western France. A set of 12 traits was selected for each species, characterizing rarity, biogeographical distribution, body size, trophic guild, dispersal power, reproductive potential and phenology. We used a three-table ordination method, RLQ analysis, to link directly bird, beetle and butterfly traits to the same set of landscape metrics calculated in 400 m-radius buffers around sample points. RLQ analyses showed significant associations between life-history traits and landscape configuration for all three taxonomical groups. Threatened species from all groups were characterized by a combination of life traits that makes them especially sensitive to the fragmentation of herbaceous and shrub-dominated habitats at the landscape scale. These key life traits were low productivity, intermediate body mass, restricted geographic range, late phenology and ground gleaning for threatened birds, intermediate body size, spring adult activity, northern distribution and summer breeding period for threatened carabids, and restricted range, overwintering as eggs or larvae, low mobility, monophagy and short flight periods for threatened butterflies. Focusing on species life traits can provide a functional perspective, which helps to determine adequate measures for the conservation of threatened species and communities of several taxonomical groups in mosaic landscapes.
30243201|House mice Mus musculus and other introduced rodents represent a novel source of predation on tree seeds in New Zealand forests. In the northern temperate forests where these rodents are native, spatial and temporal variation in tree seed production can result in dramatic fluctuations in the distribution and abundance of seed predators, with subsequent feedbacks on the distribution and abundance of seedlings. We use neighbourhood models to examine variation in rodent predation on seeds of 4 tree species of the temperate rainforests of New Zealand as a function of 1) spatial variation in local canopy composition and 2) spatial and temporal variation in mouse activity. We placed seeds throughout mapped stands of mixed forests in alluvial valley bottoms and on elevated marine terraces in the Waitutu Forest, South Island. The risk of predation on seeds of 2 dominant canopy trees - rimu Dacrydium cupressinum and mountain beech Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides - peaked in neighbourhoods dominated by those species and by silver beech N. menziesii, particularly in a year of plentiful seed rain from these species. The risk of predation on rimu and beech seed was also related to measures of local mouse activity. These relationships suggest that the highest local abundance of mice was concentrated in rimu and beech neighbourhoods because of the food provided by seed rain from those trees. Predation on seed of miro Prumnopitys ferruginea, which is eaten by rats but not mice, was low in rimu neighbourhoods and where mouse activity was high. These patterns may reflect spatial segregation in the activity of rats versus mice within stands. Our results suggest that the spatial distribution of canopy trees translates into predictable patterns of variation in mouse activity and seed predation. Heterogeneity in rodent activity and seed predation within stands may have important implications for tree population dynamics.
3683626|This paper discusses species diversity in simple multi-habitat environments. Its main purpose is to present simple mathematical and graphical models on how landscape patterns affect species numbers. The idea is to build models of species diversity in multi-habitat landscapes by combining species-area curves for different habitats. Predictions are made about how variables such as species richness and species overlap between habitats influence the proportion of the total landscape each habitat should constitute, and how many habitats it should be divided into in order to be able to sustain the maximal number of species. Habitat size and numbers are the only factors discussed here, not habitat spatial patterns. Among the predictions are: 1) where there are differences in species diversity between habitats, optimal landscape patterns contain larger proportions of species rich habitats. 2) Species overlap between habitats shifts the optimum further towards larger proportions of species rich habitat types. 3) Species overlap also shifts the optimum towards fewer habitat types. 4) Species diversity in landscapes with large species overlap is more resistant to changes in landscape (or reserve) size. This type of model approach can produce theories useful to nature and landscape management in general, and the design of nature reserves and national parks in particular.
3682794| The tree species composition, vertical stratification and patterns of spatial autocorrelation at the tree and quadrate (25  25 m) scales were studied in a natural mature Pinus sylvestris dominated forest in eastern Finland. For the analyses we mapped the locations and dimensions of trees taller than 10 m in a 9 ha (300  300 m) area, and within this area we mapped all trees taller than 0.3 m on a core plot of 4 ha (200  200 m). The overall tree size distribution was bimodal, the dominant layer and the understory forming the peak frequencies. Pinus sylvestris dominated the main canopy, together with scattered Betula pendula and Picea abies. Alnus incana, Populus tremula, Salix caprea, Sorbus aucuparia and Juniperus communis occurred only in the under- and middlestories. Autocorrelation analysis (semivariance) of tree size variation revealed spatial patterns, which were strongly dependent on the size of trees included in the analysis. When all living trees, including the understory regeneration, were taken into account, the autocorrelation pattern ranged up to 35 m inter-tree distances, reflecting the spatial scale of understory regeneration patches. Competitive interaction among middle- and upperstory trees (height > 10 m) had contrasting effects on autocorrelation pattern depending on spatial scale. At the fine scale, dominant trees suppressed their smaller close neighbors (asymmetric competition), which was shown as increased tree size variation at small inter-tree distances (< 2 m). At slightly larger inter-tree distances, specifically among large trees of similar size, competition was more symmetrical, which resulted in decreased tree size variation at these inter-tree distances (3-4 m). This effect was seen most clearly in the dominant trees, there being a clear autocorrelation pattern in tree size up to inter-tree distances of  4 m. At the quadrate scale (25  25 m) the analysis revealed high local variation in structural characteristics such as tree height diversity (THD), tree species diversity (H) and autocorrelation of tree height. The analysis suggests that naturally developed P. sylvestris forests exhibit complex small-scale patterns of structural heterogeneity and spatial autocorrelation in tree size. These patterns may be important for stand-scale habitat diversity and can have aggregated effects on ecosystem dynamics at larger spatial scales though their influence on the spread of disturbance and regeneration after disturbance. 
3683570|Alpha-diversity of geometrid moths was investigated along an elevational gradient in a tropical montane rainforest in southern Ecuador. Diversity was measured using 1) species number, 2) extrapolated species number (Chao 1 estimator), 3) rarefied species number, and 4) Fisher's alpha. When applied to the empirical data set, 1 and 2 strongly depended on the sample size, whereas 3 and 4 were suitable and reliable measures of local diversity. At single sites, up to 292 species were observed, and extrapolation estimates range from 244 to 445 species. Values for Fisher's alpha are among the highest ever measured for this moth family, and range from 69 to 131 per site. In contrast to theoretical assumptions and empirical studies in other regions of the world, the diversity of geometrid moths remained consistently high along the entire gradient studied. Diversity measures correlated with neither altitude nor ambient temperature. The large subfamily Ennominae has previously been assumed to be a group that occurs mainly at low and medium elevations. However, no decline in diversity was found in the study area. The diversity of the other large subfamily, Larentiinae, even increased from the lowest elevations and was highest at elevations above 1800 m. The roles of a decreasing diversity of potential host-plants, decreasing structural complexity of the vegetation, increasingly unfavourable climatic conditions and possible physiological adaptations in determining herbivore species richness are discussed. A relatively low predation pressure might be an advantage of high-altitude habitats. The physiognomy of the Andes (folded mountains, large areas at high altitudes) might also have allowed speciation events and the development of a species-rich high-altitude fauna. There is evidence that the species-richness of other groups of herbivorous insects in the same area declines as altitude increases. This emphasises difficulties that are associated with biodiversity indicator groups, and calls for caution when making generalisations from case studies.
3682917|We have analysed the relations between the distribution areas of Bufo bufo and Bufo calamita in the south of the Iberian Peninsula. In order to characterise the localities where the species were found, we used 24 environmental variables, and we tested their influence on the distribution of both species by nonparametric methods. By means of logistic regression we calculated the odds of finding one or other species in a locality. The environmental parameters that increase the probability of presence of each species and of both species together are related with the climatic stability and with the climatic subregions. Bufo bufo is more likely to be found in areas where the climate is more predictable, probably because in these areas it may exert its competitive superiority over B. calamita. In zones with very low climatic stability B. calamita is more likely to be found than B. bufo, probably because B. bufo lacks the ability to adapt to unpredictable conditions. In areas with intermediate climatic predictability B. bufo is present, but it would be prevented from removing B. calamita, and so the odds of finding each species are equilibrated. In these areas there would be a balance between the superior competitiveness of B. bufo and the higher adaptability of B. calamita. With the same logistic equation we characterise the typical habitats of each species, and also the environments shared by both species.
30243143|Large-scale patterns of animal distributions and abundances may be determined by mechanisms that act at local or landscape scales. We studied the movement behaviors of four species of bottomland butterflies in a natural setting to examine the determinants of movement behavior across different scales. We tested the relative importance of three landscape attributes: drainage slope, boundary type, and stream proximity, and local habitat attributes related to food plants and plants that influence habitat structure. Across species, we tested the relative importance of organism size and habitat specificity to explain response variation. In general, butterfly responses to landscape features were more universal than responses to local features. Specifically, results from this study showed that drainage slope did not influence movement behaviors but boundary type, stream proximity, and host plant abundance all influenced movement patterns. Responses to local features varied by species and often complemented landscape effects on movement. Responses to all features were not related to butterfly size, but did vary in accordance with butterfly host plant specificity. These behaviors help to explain landscape-level variation in population distribution among species.
3683828|We examine the consequences of restricting the range of environmental conditions over which niche-based models are developed to project potential future distributions of three selected European tree species to assess first, the importance of removing absences beyond species known distributions ("naughty noughts") and second the importance of capturing the full environmental range of species. We found that restricting the environmental range of data strongly influenced the estimation of response curves, especially towards upper and lower ends of environmental ranges. This induces changes in the probability values towards upper and lower environmental boundaries, leading to more conservative scenarios in terms of changes in distribution projections. Using restricted data analogous to not capturing the fun species' environmental range, reduces strongly the combinations of environmental conditions under which the models are calibrated, and reduces the applicability of the models for predictive purposes. This may generate unpredictable effects on the tails of the species response curves, yielding spurious projections into the future provided that probability of occurrence is not set to zero outside the environmental limits of the species. Indeed, as the restricted data does not capture the whole of the response curve, projections of future species distributions based of ecological niche modelling may be only valid if niche models are able to approach the complete response curve of environmental predictors.
30243216|According to the continuum concept of vegetation, variation in species composition is primarily determined by complex environmental gradients. Species-gradient relationships of ground-dwelling, independent organisms are studied at scales ranging from centimetres to continents. In this study we use a balanced data set for pyrenomycetes on Salix to address if how the current species-gradient paradigm needs to be modified to apply to assemblages of organisms that are dependent on other organisms for their existence. The data from a transect across central-north Scandinavia included variation along climatic gradients in oceanicity (from oceanic to continental vegetation sections), and temperatures (from south boreal to alpine vegetation zones) and among five common and widely distributed Salix host species (Salix caprea agg., S. glauca ssp. glauca, S. lapponum, S. myrsinifolia agg. and S. pentandra). Ten individuals of each Salix host species were selected and carefully examined for pyrenomycetes within each combination of section and zone. Data for 28 species in the 28 combinations of section, zone and host were subjected to ordination and constrained ordination analyses. Host species was the most important source of variation in species composition, followed by zone and section which are the same major regional gradients that are important to plants. We use examples to discuss the contribution of local ecological and substrate gradients to the high variation explained by host species, concluding that host specificity per se occurs for these partly parasitic fungi. We therefore suggest that in order to account for variation in composition of species assemblages with strong degree of host dependence, general rules for speciesgradient relationships need to be extended by inclusion of host specificity as separate factor.
3682826| The idea that ground-nesting birds have a high risk of predation is widely accepted. This paper analyzes the nest predation patterns of ground-nesting passerines on the Iberian Peninsula. The nest predation rates are higher in open land species x= 71%) than in countryside farmland (10%) or forest birds (29%). The latter species have no differences in daily survival between ground and above-ground nests. The higher nest predation in ground-nesting open land species was similar in peninsular Spain and North America. We conclude that it is incorrect to generalize that all ground nesters have high nest predation rates, and we discuss the possible link of the high nest predation rates of open land birds to the decline observed in their population trends in Spain. 
30244631|During recent decades, concern about the loss of biodiversity on agricultural land has increased, and semi-natural grasslands have been highlighted as critical habitats. Temperate European agricultural landscapes require distinct and appropriate management to prevent further impoverishment of the flora and fauna. This is especially urgent for pollinating insects that provide important ecosystem services. Our aim was to examine how species richness of three important groups of pollinating insects; solitary bees, butterflies and burnet moths are related to different farm characteristics, and if there are any differences between these three groups. A further aim was to test if red-listed species are related to any farm characteristics. Species richness of solitary bees, butterflies and burnets was measured on all semi-natural grasslands at 16 farms in a forest-dominated area of 50 km in southern Sweden, using systematic transect walks in April to September 2003 (only butterflies and burnets) and 2005. Species richness of solitary bees and butterflies was intercorrelated, both before and after controlling for the area of semi-natural grassland. Species richness of solitary bees increased with the area of semi-natural grassland. After controlling for the effect of the area of semi-natural grassland species richness was strongly positively related with the density of the plant Knautia arvensis and negatively related with the proportion of grazed grassland. The results were similar for solitary bees and butterflies. The number of red-listed solitary bees was positively related to the proportion of meadows with late harvest (after mid-July) and decreased with increased farm isolation. The number of burnet species (all red-listed) was positively related to vegetation height, flower density and the proportion of meadows with late harvest on a farm. Areas with a high density of K. arvensis and with traditional hay-meadow with late harvest present, harbour most species. Promoting traditional hay-meadows, late extensive grazing and the herb K. arvensis, people managing agricultural biodiversity can encompass high species richness of pollinating insects and support red-listed species. Further, we suggest that the density of K. arvensis at a farm can be used as a biodiversity indicator, at least for pollinating insects.
3683521|Dispersal has a potentially profound effect on the dynamics of populations especially when a population occupies a patchy habitat. Ponds surrounded by terrestrial landscape are an example of patchy distribution of physical conditions and constitute "islands" for odonates. Few studies have focussed on dispersal in odonates. We have used the direct method of dispersal observing (capture-mark-recapture technique) in order to estimate the degree of linkage in three patchy populations of odonate localised on three ponds. We also examined the differences in dispersal ability within and among three species (Coenagrion puella, Coenagrion scitulum and Libellula depressa). The ponds were situated in southwest France on a limestone plateau. In this arid area, these ponds constitute the only surface water available and are relatively sparsely distributed. The size of the ponds ranged from 48 to 79 m
30243266|The mechanisms shaping patterns of biodiversity along spatial gradients remain poorly known and controversial. Hypotheses have emphasized the importance of both environmental and spatial factors. Much of the uncertainty about the relative role of these processes can be attributed to the limited number of comparative studies that evaluate multiple potential mechanisms. This study examines the relative importance of six variables: temperature, precipitation, productivity, habitat heterogeneity, area, and the mid-domain effect on patterns of species richness for non-volant small mammals along four neighboring mountain ranges in central Utah. Along each of these elevational gradients, a humpshaped relationship of richness with elevation is evident. This study evaluates whether the processes shaping this common pattern are also common to all gradients. Model selection indicates that no one factor or set of factors best explains patterns of species richness across all gradients, and drivers of diversity may vary seasonally. These findings suggest that commonality in the pattern of species richness, even among elevational gradients with a similar biogeographic history and fauna, cannot be attributed to a simple universal explanation.
3683033|Across species, abundance usually correlates negatively with body size. This intuitive pattern may result from size-dependent resource requirements in habitats where only finite amounts of resources are available. Among parasite species, it is possible that some resource limitations are less severe than for free-living animals although this may depend on the type of parasites. The interspecific relationship between body size and abundance (measured as prevalence and intensity of infection) among parasites was tested in two groups of parasites. Among helminth endoparasites of fish, parasite body size correlated positively with prevalence and negatively with intensity of infection. Among copepod ectoparasites of fish, body size correlated positively with both prevalence and intensity. These trends were observed after controlling for the confounding influences of phylogeny and sampling effort. These contrasting patterns may result from the more intense link between body size and intensity-dependent regulation in endoparasites than in ectoparasites. The results of this comparative analysis suggest that parasite body size could be an important factor determining aspects of parasite abundance and distribution, including aggregation.
20696296|Vegetation gradients developing around water sources (i.e. piospheres) are important features of arid and semi-arid ecosystems. Studied extensively in pastoral areas, piospheres have rarely been investigated in areas hosting rich herbivore diversity. We studied piospheres in woody cover assessed through remote-sensing in Hwange National Park, Zimbabwe, which has one of the world's largest elephant populations. As no preferred statistical model for piosphere studies has emerged, we first contrasted results from ordinary least-square (OLS) regressions on raw data with those from other statistical models (OLS on aggregated data and simultaneous autoregressive models on raw data), and selected the most parsimonious, unbiased, model to study the influence of artificial and natural waterholes, and the abundance of elephants, others browsers, and grazers on piospheres. OLS models provided unbiased parameter estimates, despite the strong spatial autocorrelation present in woody cover data, whereas other statistical models had important drawbacks. Using an OLS framework we showed that despite an important negative non-linear mean effect, distance-to-water was a poor predictor of woody cover at any location. Woody cover was on average more reduced in the vicinity of water at artificial waterholes than at natural waterholes. Elephant abundance was not consistently associated with lower woody cover, and poorly explained woody cover heterogeneity, as did all other herbivore-related variables. Our study indicates that piospheres may develop differently in pastoral and protected areas, suggesting the importance of herbivore diversity in ecosystem functioning. Our results also show that heterogeneity in woody cover persists within piospheres, calling for further investigation on the origin and role of this heterogeneity in the maintenance of ecological processes and biodiversity within these key-areas of the landscape.
3683738|We use reports obtained in a field survey to characterize the internal structure, and to reconstruct the strong contraction in the geographic range of the Iberian lynx Lynx pardinus during a 35-yr period. Lynx were distributed in one large central population surrounded by smaller peripheral ones. Abundance was autocorrelated, attained high values only in a few scattered sites mostly within the central population, and increased from west to east along major mountain chains. Abundance and occupancy were positively related. The strength of range contraction was similar in both large and small populations. We were able to date two peaks of local extinction, which were accompanied by many events of population fragmentation. We also identified five areas where local extinctions aggregated in space. Lynx relative abundance appeared to be site-specific, and the probability of local extinction decreased with increasing abundance. We suggest that sublethal deterministic factors operating with similar intensity all over the range, rather than in progression from a focal point, best explain the observed trajectory of contraction. Two factors that meet such characteristics may have had an outstanding role in lynx decline. One of them is myxomatosis, an introduced viral disease that decimated rabbits Oryctolagus cuniculus, the staple prey of the lynx. The other is related to the changes in land use prompted by extensive human emigration from the countryside 40 yr ago. Other stochastic or superimposed deterministic factors may have accounted for regional aggregation of local extinctions. The identification of these factors is very important to reverse the lasting decline of this endangered felid.
3682885|I studied breeding habitat choice of common toad Bufo bufo and common frog Rana temporaria in 221 freshwater rock-pools on 15 small islands in the southwestern coast of Finland. I monitored tadpole growth rate in a number of rock-pools differing in size, competitors and predator regime. Furthermore, I carried out a short-term field experiment to investigate the effects of different predators on larval survival. Rana bred in pools of virtually all sizes, although the very smallest ones were usually avoided. A logistic regression analysis showed that the amount of aquatic macrophyte vegetation and pool surface area were the most important pool characters for Rana. Bufo preferred the largest pools, and pool surface area was by far the most important habitat variable. Rana avoided pools with the lowest pH, but was more common than expected at pools with pH around 6. In Bufo such an effect was not found, but this may be due to relatively low number of pools occupied by Bufo. In Rana there was a positive correlation between pool area and tadpole body length in early June, but two weeks later this relationship was not significant. In Bufo tadpole body size was not significantly affected by pool area. Presence of predators or presence of the other tadpole species did not affect growth or tadpole body size in either Rana or Bufo. A short-term experiment in wading pools indicated that both species suffered heavy mortality in the presence of a diving beetle larva. In the presence of predatory fish, mortality of Bufo did not differ from controls, whereas mortality was high among Rana tadpoles. It appears that although predators prey heavily on Rana tadpoles, they do not exclude Rana from larger rock-pools. However, it is not evident from this study why Bufo avoids smaller pools.
3683257|We investigated the potential for ontogenetic resource partitioning within a population of the Texas earless lizard Cophosaurus texanus. Results from focal samples, line transects, haphazard observations, and stomach flushes compiled in summer (July 1993) and autumn (September 1995) revealed differences in microhabitat use and diet between adults and juveniles. Juveniles use rock perches more frequently than adult males, and consume smaller prey than adults. No ontogenetic differences in thermal ecology were observed. Diet differences between juveniles and adults may be attributed to the inability of juveniles to handle large prey items. Differences between juveniles and adults in prey size and microhabitat use suggest ontogenetic variation in foraging, predator avoidance, and territory defense.
20696307|Within-population studies are needed to investigate the extent of, and the factors underlying, intraspecific variation in home range size. We used data from 12 female and 8 male adult lions instrumented with GPS radio-collars to describe the ranging behaviour of lions in a population from a dystrophic semi-arid savanna, Hwange National Park, Zimbabwe. We measured prey availability at the home range scale in 2003, 2004, and 2005. For females, home range size increased as pride biomass increased, which is strongly suggestive of expansionism. Once controlled for pride biomass, home range size decreased as prey biomass increased. Pride ranges responded to changes in food abundance on an annual timescale rather than on a seasonal timescale. Female home range size was influenced by the abundance of kudu in the early dry season, whereas it was influenced by buffalo and young elephant abundance in the late dry season. This study shows that female home range size is mainly driven by the size of the pride, but also by prey abundance. Furthermore, female seasonal home range size may be determined, not only by prey abundance, but also by prey dispersion in the landscape. Home range size of males was driven by both prey biomass and the density of female prides.
3683586|We report results showing that the RAPD technique is a powerful method for detailed genetic analysis of a small natural population of the endangered plant species Anthericum liliago L. (Anthericaceae). This population grows on silicate grasslands in central Germany. We investigated all 127 ramets found in the population area. Within the population area, restricted to ca
3682988|The distribution of niches in resource space and the niche patterns of a 13 species community of Middle Asian desert rodents were studied by use of discriminant function analysis. Nineteen quantitative parameters of the environment (soil structure and vegetation), measured at 600 sample plots within twentyfour one ha grids, were considered. The first three canonical axes of resource space account for 83% of the variance; the first axis represents a general landscape gradient from sand to clay soils, the second axis reflects a gradient of increasing productivity, and the third axis reflects a gradient of increasing protectability of the environment. The distribution of niches in resource space is not even; there are two distinct spatial guilds consisting of psammophilous and sclerophilous species. There is a negative correlation between niche position (distance from species centroid to the center of the resource space) and maximal population biomass. At the same time there are no correlations between the niche breadth and the niche position due to the absence of species with really broad niches. Rodent biomass increases along the productivity axis and reaches a peak in the middle part of the substrate axis. Rodent species diversity increases along the substrate axis from sand to clay soils. Changes of species diversity along productivity axis have humpshaped patterns. Maximum species diversity was recorded at low level of productivity on the sandy soils and shifted to intermediate levels of productivity on sandy-loam and clay soils.
3683662| This paper aims to provide guidance to ecologists with limited experience in spatial analysis to help in their choice of techniques. It uses examples to compare methods of spatial analysis for ecological field data. A taxonomy of different data types is presented, including point- and area-referenced data, with and without attributes. Spatially and non-spatially explicit data are distinguished. The effects of sampling and other transformations that convert one data type to another are discussed; the possible loss of spatial information is considered. Techniques for analyzing spatial pattern, developed in plant ecology, animal ecology, landscape ecology, geostatistics and applied statistics are reviewed briefly and their overlap in methodology and philosophy noted. the techniques are categorized according to their output and the inferences that may be drawn from them, in a discursive style without formulae. Methods are compared for four case studies with field data covering a range of types. These are: 1) percentage cover of three shrubs along a line transect; 2) locations and volume of a desert plant in a 1 ha area; 3) a remotely-sensed spectral index and elevation from 10
3683486|Biologists have long noted higher levels of species diversity in the longitudinal middle-courses of river systems and have proposed many explanations. As a new explanation for this widespread pattern, we suggest that many middle-course peaks in richness may be, at least in part, a consequence of geometric constraints on the location of species' ranges along river courses, considering river headwaters and mouths as boundaries for the taxa considered. We demonstrate this extension of the mid-domain effect (MDE) to river systems for riparian plants along two rivers in Sweden, where a previous study found a middle-course peak in richness of natural (non-ruderal) species. We compare patterns of empirical richness of these species to null model predictions of species richness along the two river systems and to spatial patterns for six environmental variables (channel width, substrate fineness, substrate heterogeneity, ice scour, bank height, and bank area). In addition, we examine the independent prediction of mid-domain effects models that species with large ranges, because the location of their ranges is more constrained, are more likely to produce a mid-domain peak in richness than are species with small ranges. Species richness patterns of riparian plants were best predicted by models including both null model predictions and environmental variables. When species were divided into large-ranged and small-ranged groups, the mid-domain effect was more prominent and the null model predictions were a better fit to the empirical richness patterns of large-ranged species than those of small-ranged species. Our results suggest that the peak in riparian plant species richness in the middle courses of the rivers studied can be explained by an underlying mid-domain effect (driven by geometric constraints on large-ranged species), together with environmental effects on richness patterns (particularly on small-ranged species). We suggest that the mid-domain effect may help to explain similar middle-course richness peaks along other rivers.
3683344| The records of Canadian lynx fur returns indicate rather regular self-repeating pattern with 9-11 yr cycles. That the lynx populations over a vast geographical range fluctuate in synchrony appears to be well established. The finding that the degree of synchrony levels off with increasing distance among provinces compared to increase again between the furthest-away provinces (-shape) has largely escaped notice in previous analyses. Moreover, the pattern of synchrony against distance varies depending on the period of time used in the analysis, sometimes there is -shape, sometimes mere negative correlation, and sometimes no relationship whatsoever. The entire rich pattern of lynx dynamics in space and time can be emulated by sets of local subpopulations acknowledging dispersal among populations. This all suggest that local dynamics of populations cannot be fully understood unless the significance of spatial linkage of subpopulations via dispersal of individuals is acknowledged. 
3682873|A study was undertaken within a sub-tidal Zostera marina seagrass bed (Devon, U.K.), with the aim of elucidating the relationship between seagrass structural complexity and the size and composition of the associated macroinvertebrate community. Samples of macroinvertebrates were recovered from three designated areas of shoot density. Various physical characteristics were measured for individual plants, and an a priori complexity index was determined relevant to the associated target organisms. Resulting data were analysed using linear regression and multivariate techniques. Significant relationships were found between shoot density and number of leaves/shoot, leaf length, stem length and algal epiphyte biomass. Neither the number of species nor abundance of macroinvertebrates was significantly related with the derived complexity index. Multivariate analysis indicated that macroinvertebrate communities from the three areas of shoot density were significantly different, the pattern of macroinvertebrate community composition being best explained by seagrass biomass. Linear regression of seagrass biomass with macroinvertebrate number of species and abundance revealed significant positive relationships. Regression also indicated that there was no significant increase in complexity with increasing seagrass biomass. The results suggest that within a seagrass bed the size and composition of the associated macroinvertebrate community is not determined by the structural complexity of the plants, but by the amount of plant available. This finding indicates a simple species-area relationship, and arguably one brought about as a result of a sampling artefact. Thus, the current paradigm that structural complexity of seagrass is responsible for increased species diversity, can only be justifiably applied to comparisons between seagrass and other habitats, and not within a seagrass bed itself.
3683445|Land use change is a crucial driver behind species loss at the landscape scale. Hence, from a conservation perspective, species response to habitat degradation or improvement of habitat quality, is important to examine. By using indicator species it may be possible to monitor long-term survival of local populations associated with land use change. In this study we examined three potential indicator (response) species for species richness and composition in Scandinavian semi-natural grassland communities: Campanula rotundifolia, Primula veris and Rhinanthus minor. With field inventories and experiments we examined their response to present land use, habitat degradation and improvement of local habitat quality. At the time scale examined, C. rotundifolia was the only species responding to both habitat degradation and improvement of habitat quality. Neither R. minor nor P. veris responded positively to habitat improvements although both responded rapidly to direct negative changes in habitat quality. Even though C. rotundifolia responded quickly to habitat degradation, it did not disappear completely from the sites. Instead, the population structure changed in terms of decreased population size and flowering frequency. It also showed an ability to form remnant populations which may increase resilience of local habitats. Although P. veris and especially R. minor responded rapidly to negative environmental changes and may be useful as early indicators of land use change, it is desirable that indicators respond to both degradation and improvement of habitat quality. Thus, C. rotundifolia is a better response species for monitoring effects of land use change and conservation measures, provided that both local and regional population dynamics are monitored over a long time period.
3683495|A study of phenological patterns in macromycete communities in Veracruz, Mexico was carried out in order to understand changes in community structure across regions of different vegetation types. Previous studies suggest that similarities in community composition occur when there are similarities in certain geographical and climatological characteristics, however they do not address functional groups or seasonal changes across regions. Macromycete communities in Veracruz showed similar species distribution patterns, but individual assemblages changed structure seasonally, changes that were strongly correlated with rainfall. Interestingly, the number of functional groups (species performing similar ecological functions) was not determined by rainfall, but the distribution of species within functional groups was determined by rainfall. Temperature did not appear to play a role in structuring community diversity at this regional scale. However, temperature and other environmental factors such as pH or light may be the mechanism triggering phenological patterns, and influencing the species pool at localized scales. This work brings new light to fungal community diversity patterns in a largely unknown group of species.
30244585|Insect outbreaks exert landscape-level influences, yet quantifying the relative contributions of various exogenous and endogenous factors that contribute to their pattern and spread remains elusive. We examine an outbreak of mountain pine beetle covering an 800 thousand ha area on the Chilcotin Plateau of British Columbia, Canada, during the 1970s and early 1980s. We present a model that incorporates the spatial and temporal arrangements of outbreaking insect populations, as well as various climatic factors that influence insect development. Onsets of eruptions of mountain pine beetle demonstrated landscape-level synchrony. On average, the presence of outbreaking populations was highly correlated with outbreaking populations within the nearest 18 km the same year and local populations within 6 km in the previous two years. After incorporating these spatial and temporal dependencies, we found that increasing temperatures contributed to explaining outbreak probabilities during this 15 yr outbreak. During collapse years, landscape-level synchrony declined while local synchrony values remained high, suggesting that in some areas host depletion was contributing to population decline. Model forecasts of outbreak propensity one year in advance at a 12 by 12 km scale provided 80% accuracy over the landscape, and never underestimated the occurrence of locally outbreaking populations. This model provides a flexible approach for linking temperature and insect population dynamics to spatial spread, and complements existing decision support tools for resource managers.
3683292| Saproxylic beetles have been shown to be vulnerable to within-forest fragmentation expressed as large distances between single dead wood pieces (low spatial connectivity of dead wood). From samples of a two-year study of saproxylic beetles, species that were characteristic of sites with high dead wood connectivity were identified by Canonical Correspondence Analysis, the method of Dufrne and Legendre (IndVal) and by considering the species occurring exclusively in sites with high dead wood connectivity. These species differed mainly from the other species by their high habitat specificity. Hence, there are species-specific responses of saproxylic beetles to the spatial arrangement of dead wood. High dead wood connectivity must be achieved in managed forests to sustain species which are particularly vulnerable to fragmentation. 
3683553|Theoretical models predict that a delayed density-dependent mortality factor with a time lag of ca 9 months is able to drive 3-5-yr population cycles of northern voles. We studied numerical responses of predators in western Finland during 1986-92, in an area with 3-yr population cycles of voles. Abundances of small mammals were monitored in several farmland areas (each
3683484|This study analyzes the variations in the structure and composition of ant communities in burned Pinus nigra forests in central Catalonia (NE Spain). Pinus nigra forests do not recover after fire, changing to shrublands and oak coppices. For this reason, we suggest that ant communities of burned P. nigra forests will change after fire, because the post-fire scenario, in particular with the increase of open areas, is different to the unburned one, and more favourable for some species than for others. In four locations previously occupied by P. nigra forests where different fires occurred 1, 5, 13 and 19 yr before the sampling, we sampled the structure and composition of ant communities with pitfall traps, tree traps and net sweeping in unburned plots and in plots affected by canopy and understory fire. The results obtained suggest that canopy and understory fire had little effect on the structure of ant communities. Thus, many variables concerning ant communities were not modified either by fire type (understory or canopy fire) or by time since fire. However, a number of particular species were affected, either positively or negatively, by canopy fire: three species characteristic of forest habitats decreased after fire, while eight species characteristic of open habitats increased in areas affected by canopy fire, especially in the first few years after fire. These differences in ant community composition between burned and unburned plots imply that the maximum richness is achieved when there is a mixture of unburned forests and areas burned with canopy fire. Moreover, as canopy cover in P. nigra forests burned with canopy fire is not completed in the period of time studied, the presence of the species that are characteristic of burned areas remains along the chronosequence studied, while the species that disappear after fire do not recover in the period of time considered. Overall, the results obtained indicate that there is a persistent replacement of ant species in burned P. nigra forests, as is also the case with vegetation.
3683734|There is considerable debate over the relative importance of dispersal and environmental disturbances (the Moran effect) as causes of spatial synchrony in fluctuations of animal populations. If environmental factors generally exhibit high levels of spatial autocorrelation, they may be playing a more important role in synchronizing animal populations than sometimes recognized. Here I examine this issue by analyzing spatial autocorrelation in annual rainfall and mean annual temperatures from sites throughout the world using the database maintained by the Global Historical Climatology Network. Both annual precipitation and mean annual temperatures exhibit high synchrony declining with distance and are statistically significant over large distance, often on a continental scale. In general, synchrony was slightly higher in annual precipitation at short distances, but greater in mean annual temperatures at long distances. No latitudinal gradient in synchrony of either variable was detected. The high overall synchrony observed in these environmental variables combined with a pattern of decline with distance similar to that observed in many animal populations suggest that the Moran effect can potentially play an important role in driving synchrony in a wide variety of ecological phenomena regardless of scale.
30243182|A database with comprehensive butterfly faunistic information from the Iberian Peninsula and the Balearic Islands was used to estimate inventory completeness as well as the environmental, spatial, and land-use effects on sampling intensities, on a 50 x 50 km UTM grid. The degree of sampling effort was assessed by means of accumulation curves based on the Clench function. Using the General Linear Model regression procedure, the effects of 22 variables on the estimated sampling efforts were assessed. This combination of methods is proposed as a preliminary step in biodiversity studies, in order to evaluate not only the degree of geographic coverage of existing faunistic data, but also the amount and nature of the bias on the faunistic work done throughout the last two centuries. The degree of spatial effects on the data was greater than the effects of environmental or land-use variables, although the latter two proved to be locally relevant. The results confirm previous findings that collecting is often skewed by relatively simple factors that affect collector activity, such as accessibility and attractiveness of sampling sites. With regard to Iberian and Balearic butterflies, adequate inventories on the scale investigated may probably suffice for further studies of the diversity of this insect group. Additionally, the results enabled us to develop general guide lines for the design of further faunistic work in the area.
30244682|Positive relationships between species richness and sampling area are perhaps the most pervasive patterns in nature. However, the shape of species-area relationships is often highly variable, for reasons that are poorly understood. One such source of variability is the "small-island effect", which refers to a decrease in the capacity of sampling area to predict species richness on small islands. Small-island effects have been attributed to a variety of processes, including spatial subsidies, habitat characteristics and ocean-born disturbances. Here, we show that small-island effects can be generated by logarithmic data transformations, which are commonly applied to both axes of species-area relationships. To overcome this problem, we derive several null models to test for non-random variability in the capacity of island area to predict species richness and apply them to data sets on island plant communities in Canada and New Zealand. Both archipelagos showed evidence for small-island effects using traditional breakpoint regression techniques on log-log axes. However, null model analyses revealed different results. The capacity of sampling area to predict species richness in the Canadian archipelago was actually lowest at intermediate island size classes. In the New Zealand archipelago, island area was similarly capable of predicting species richness across the full range of island sizes, indicating the small-island effect detected by breakpoint regression is an artifact of logarithm data transformation. Overall results show that commonly used regression techniques can generate spurious small-island effects and that alternative analytic procedures are needed to detect non-random patterns in species richness on small islands.
3682958|Bird predation was previously found to considerably reduce the abundance of the herbivorous insect larva guild feeding on bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus within boreal coniferous forests. In this follow-up study, interest was focused on determining whether female pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca tend to use the field layer more frequently than other types of feeding niches. In addition, the degree to which the conspicuousness of a larva increases the risk of its being preyed upon by birds was evaluated in order to further understand the mechanisms regulating the bird predation effect. Larval predation risks were measured by presenting larvae with contrasting characteristics to seven captured female flycatchers. Female flycatchers hunted more frequently in the tree and field layers than in the air. However, the relative degree of utilization of the tree and field layer varied considerably between years, with use of field layer being positively related to the abundance of insect larvae on bilberry. Large larvae did not suffer higher bird predation than small larvae when both size classes were presented to the birds on bilberry. Larvae that crawl on leaves and stems during feeding (high degree of exposure) were preyed upon more than larvae that feed between leaves they have spun together (low degree of exposure). No difference in larval predation risk was found between sawflies and geometrids, the two taxa represented in the exposed feeder group. However, dark geometrids suffered higher predation than green sawflies and green geometrids. My findings suggest that the herbivorous larva guild constitutes an abundant food resource frequently utilized by small bird predators. However, certain members of the guild appeared to be preyed upon more than other members. Thus the risk for predation seems to be highest for dark geometrids followed in decreasing order by green geometrids, sawflies, pyralids, and tortricids.
3683090|The diet of Barbastella barbastellus was investigated through analysis of droppings collected from three maternity roosts in Germany and Switzerland. The results showed a high dominance of moths (Lepidoptera), which accounted for 73-94% of the recovered items by volume. Flies (Diptera), ranging in size from blow flies (Calliphoridae) and large crane flies (Tipulidae) to small Nematocera, were the second most important prey items (4-17%). Prey types recovered also included small numbers of Trichoptera, Neuroptera, Homoptera, Hymenoptera, Coleoptera and spiders (Araneae). The diet of the barbastelle differs from that of most other bats in Europe in the predominance of moths and the corresponding virtual absence of dung beetles (Coleoptera; Scarabaeidae) and midges (Diptera; Chironomidae). Conservation measures for barbastelles should therefore consider facilitation of the diversity and abundance of moths.
30244603|Leaf $\delta^{13}C$ is an indicator of water-use efficiency and provides useful information on the carbon and water balance of plants over longer periods. Variation in leaf $\delta^{13}C$ between or within species is determined by plant physiological characteristics and environmental factors. We hypothesized that variation in leaf $\delta^{13}C$ values among dominant species reflected ecosystem patterns controlled by large-scale environmental gradients, and that within-species variation indicates plant adaptability to environmental conditions. To test these hypotheses, we collected leaves of dominant species from six ecosystems across a horizontal vegetation transect on the Tibetan Plateau, as well as leaves of Kobresia pygmaea (herbaceous) throughout its distribution and leaves of two coniferous tree species (Picea crassifolia, Abiesfabri) along an elevation gradient throughout their distribution in the Qilian Mountains and Gongga Mountains, respectively. Leaf $\delta^{13}C$ of dominant species in the six ecosystems differed significantly, with values for evergreen coniferous <evergreen broadleaved tree <alpine shrub <sedges  graminoid <xeromorphs. Leaf $\delta^{13}C$ values of the dominant species and of K pygmaea were negatively correlated with annual precipitation along a water gradient, but leaf $\delta^{13}C$ of A. fabri was not significantly correlated with precipitation in habitats without water-stress. This confirms that variation of $\delta^{13}C$ between or within species reflects plant responses to environmental conditions. Leaf $\delta^{13}C$ of the dominant species also reflected water patterns on the Tibetan Plateau, providing evidence that precipitation plays a primary role in controlling ecosystem changes from southeast to northwest on the Tibetan Plateau.
3682776|Growth and survivorship of individually reared offspring of the woodlice (Isopoda: Oniscidae) Porcellionides pruinosus (Brandt) and Aphiloscia vilis (Budde-Lund) were measured under laboratory conditions. These measures of offspring fitness were compared to birth mass, which is a realistic measure of parental investment in offspring for these species, to test a key assumption of life history theory that an increase in resource allocation to offspring will increase offspring fitness. In both species birth mass had no significant effect on survivorship to 60 days and in P. pruinosus birth mass did not correlate with mass at 15, 30 or 45 days after birth. In A. vilis larger young at birth had a slight growth advantage to 15 days but not thereafter. There appears to be little effect of birth mass on offspring fitness despite a considerable range in birth mass within broods. In these species high variance in juvenile growth may spread subsequent reproductive effort and avoid risks of total reproductive failure.
3683003|Analyses of their habitats indicate that 18% of British butterfly species are restricted to the earliest seral stages of ecosystems, whereas the same species occupy later seral stages in central Europe, where spring and summer temperatures are warmer. The microclimates of their British habitats are exceptionally warm, compensating for the cooler climate. Most of these British habitats are also ephemeral, and have long depended on man for their creation and regeneration. This poses the question of where these species lived before man created their habitats, roughly 6000 BP. I suggest that they are relics from a period when British summers were warmer than today, and that they avoided extinction when the climate cooled by moving into warm refugia created by prehistoric man within three types of ecosystem. If summer temperatures become warmer, these species should return to later seral stages that are commoner and less dependent on man.
3683316| We assessed the importance of spatial heterogeneity for the aggregation of helminth populations in the bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus (Arvicolinae) using a previously published method which allows to analyse parasite aggregation at two host population levels, i.e., within and between spatial samples of the host population. In the main empirical material from Finnish Lapland (Pallasjrvi), all five helminth species were significantly aggregated within study sites, but only three rare species showed significant aggregation among sites. In all helminth species, the total aggregation was primarily (79-98%) determined by aggregation within sites, i.e., between host individuals. Despite the larger spatial scale and more heterogeneous landscape, the comparative material from South Finland (Luhanka) supported the generally high proportion of the total aggregation due to within-site heterogeneity. Despite the clear interspecific differences in patchiness of helminth populations, the proportion of the total aggregation due to among-site heterogeneity did not vary significantly among helminth species. The results indicate a link between aggregation at two population levels; species that showed strong within-site aggregation were also characterised by pronounced spatial heterogeneity and significant among-site aggregation. 
3683564|Reproductive output, as well as photosynthetically active radiation interception and CO
3683066|Studies on the effects of perturbations on Mediterranean shrub vegetation have most often emphasized the role of disturbance by fire. Here I report on the effects of a relatively mild (as opposed to burning) disturbance on Lavandula stoechas. The study was carried out in two adjacent plots, one in which all shrub aboveground biomass had been eliminated mechanically two years before, the other with an intact layer of shrub. Although the study species lacks developed underground organs, root sprouting ensued clearing and average interplant distance at the treated site was indistinguishable from that in the control area. Average percent plant mass accounted for by living branches with leaves was significantly higher for rejuvenated, cleared-plot individuals, which also produced about twice as many flowering heads and seeds per head as their control-plot counterparts, along with heavier individual seeds. Naturally occurring seedlings survived relatively better at the cleared plot, probably as a result of the joint effects of decreased litter cover, increased water availability, and higher growth rates. The average fresh mass of one-year-old seedlings at the open was 243 mg, vs 10 mg of shrub-plot seedlings. No seedling survived the first summer drought out of ca 1000 seedlings that emerged from seed sown in a nearby, intact shrub stand. It is hypothesized that mild, relatively local disturbance elicits competitive release, which has a major effect on both the fecundity of individuals and the demography of this species.
3683336| To address the lack of information on the ecomorphology of young of the year juveniles (0+) freshwater fishes, despite its importance to understanding geographical variation in life history, we compared the morphology of 0+ juvenile roach Rutilus rutilus from eight sub-regions of the River Great Ouse basin (U.K.). We tested for varation due to water retention structures, which could act to isolate upstream stocks from the general population. Differences in mensural characters between the eight different regions appeared in ventral fin length and eye diameter only, which both were strongly affected by variable relative growth during early juvenile development; thus the discrepancies between regions were not due to geographical location. Morphological development in roach  15 mm standard length (SL) consists of two different intervals: during the first ( 15-40 mm SL), in contrast to adults, several mensural characters continue to develop allometrically, either positively or negatively, suggesting a continuance of the larval period. Whereas, in the second interval (>  40 mm SL), all the mensural characters except head length and eye diameter grew close to isometrically with body length, and the rate of variation in relative growth became as strongly limited as that previously reported for adults. In contrast to previous studies, which are based on few specimens, we suggest this second interval to be the true start of the juvenile period. 
30244570|The knowledge of the processes controlling the spatial distribution of species diversity is one of the main challenges of the present ecological research. Spatial patterns of benthic biodiversity in the deep sea are poorly known in comparison with other ecosystems and this limits our understanding of the mechanisms controlling the distribution and maintenance of high biodiversity in the largest ecosystems of our biosphere. Although the Mediterranean basin covers <1% of the world ocean surface, none the less it hosts >7.5% of the global biodiversity. The high biogeographic complexity and the presence of steep ecological gradients contribute in making the Mediterranean a region of very high diversity. Here we report the results of an investigation on the patterns of nematode biodiversity in the deep-Mediterranean Sea, in relation with bathymetric, longitudinal and energetic gradients. Our results indicate that benthic biodiversity in the deep-Mediterranean decreases significantly with increasing depth. Moreover, at equally deep sites, nematode diversity decreased from the western to the eastern basin and longitudinal gradients were evident when comparing sites at 4000-m depth, with 3000-m depth. The analysis of the available energy (measured as labile organic matter content of the sediments) suggests that biodiversity patterns are not controlled by the amounts of food resources, but instead bioavailability is the key factor. A more detailed analysis revealed an extremely high deep-sea beta-diversity (turnover diversity), both among sites at different depths as well as at similar depths of different longitude or within the same basin. This new finding has not only important implications on the estimates of the overall regional diversity (gamma diversity), but also suggests the presence of high biogeographic complexity in the deep benthic domain of the Mediterranean Sea.
30244512|The abundance of a species is not constant across its geographical range; it has often been assumed to decrease from the centre of a species' range toward its margins. The central assumption of this "favourable centre" model is tested for the first time with parasites, using different species of helminth parasites exploiting fish as definitive hosts. Data on prevalence (percentage of hosts that are infected) and abundance (mean no. parasites per host) were compiled for 8 helminth species occurring in 23 populations of yellow perch Perca flavescens, from continental North America. For each parasite species, correlations were computed between latitude and both local prevalence and abundance values. In addition, the relationships between the relative prevalence or abundance in one locality and the distance between that locality and the one where the maximum value was reported, were assessed separately for each species to determine whether abundance tends to decrease away from the presumed centre of the range, where it peaks. For both the cestode Proteocephalus pearsei and the acanthocephalan Leptorhynchoides thecatus, there was a positive relationship between prevalence or abundance and the latitude of the sampled population. There was also a significant negative relationship between relative prevalence and the distance from the locality showing the maximum value in P. pearsei, but no such pattern was observed for the other 7 parasite species. Since this single significant decrease in prevalence with increasing distance from the peak value may be confounded by a latitudinal gradient, it appears that the distribution of abundance in parasites of perch does not follow the favourable centre model. This means that the environmental variables affecting the density of parasites (host availability, abiotic conditions) do not show pronounced spatial autocorrelation, with nearby sites not necessarily providing more similar conditions for the growth of parasite populations than distant sites.
3683247| The dispersal of algae and cyanobacteria at three Antarctic fellfield sites was investigated using microscopic and culture analysis of samples from active and passive air samplers. Intersite variation in the mean number of large algal propagules (>5 m diameter) sampled was dependent on the niche space available for algal growth and the degree to which soil was exposed to desiccating influences, these factors could be related to the degree of maturity of the site. The numbers of large algal propagules were lowest at sites from which permanent snow cover had recently disappeared and highest at sites with developed soil circles but poorly developed moss and lichen flora. Mature sites with diverse and developed moss and lichen flora produced intermediate numbers of algal propagules. Propagules of multicellular algae, cyanobacteria and large-celled unicellular algae were found in the air at the end of the growing season of the respective algal groups as the soil surface dried. This was the case for Prasiola crispa, Pinnularia borealis, snow algae and filamentous chlorophytes and cyanobacteria. Dispersal of unicellular chlorophytes was greatest during the summer period and at sites with developed secondary flora, but also occurred at other sites and in association with small thaw events during winter. Cultures were obtained from samples collected whilst an air mass that had originated in South America, deposited material on Signy Island. This suggests that algal propagules have the ability to survive long-distance transport and potentially provide inocula for colonization of Antarctica as regional warming continues to expose fresh habitats. 
3682944|Litter sex ratio at birth was studied in two laboratory colonies of root voles Microtus oeconomus originating from northern and southern Norway, respectively. Sex ratio was female biased in the northern (57% females), but not in the southern colony. Sex seemed to be binomially distributed within litters of both colonies, and did not show consistent relationships with mother weight, litter size, parity or number of generations bred in the laboratory. Both colonies originated from populations exhibiting cyclic population dynamics in the wild. Thus different demography as such is unable to explain the difference in sex ratio between the two laboratory colonies. Social organization has been shown to differ between the two strains of root voles both in the field and in the laboratory, but it is yet unclear whether this factor is related to the sex ratio difference documented in this laboratory study.
3683041|The species richness of insect flower visitors to all angiosperms at a subarctic-alpine site in northern Sweden was described and the plant-flower visitor matrix was analysed and compared to other high latitude systems and with systems from lower latitudes. In the habitat, 23 plant species had a total of 242 interactions with 388 flower-visiting insects, belonging to 118 taxa. Connectance of the plant-flower visitor matrix was 8.9. Comparing our findings with other studies, we get that the proportion of dipteran species of the total pollinator fauna increases with latitude but that the proportions of species of Diptera, Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera do not vary significantly among high latitude systems. Muscidae and Empididae were more abundant and generalised than other dipteran families visiting flowers in the arctic, their proportions of the total Diptera fauna increase with latitude and they are the most widespread families of flower-visiting insects in the arctic. Several Muscidae species are typical to alpine habitats in the arctic-subarctic zone. These species have special pollen feeding behaviour and an elongated proboscis, which improves access to closed flowers. Compared to other published pollination system studies, the connectance of low latitude systems ranges between 3.4 and 28.1, whereas high latitude and high altitude systems vary between 8.6 and 19 (-60).
3682864|To define general principles of predator-prey dynamics in an estuarine subtidal environment, we manipulated predator density (the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus) and prey (the clam, Macoma balthica) patch distribution in large field enclosures in the Rhode River subestuary of the central Chesapeake Bay. The primary objectives were to determine whether predators forage in a way that maximizes prey consumption and to assess how their foraging success is affected by density of conspecifics. We developed a novel ultrasonic telemetry system to observe behavior of individual predators with unprecedented detail. Behavior of predators was more indicative of optimal than of opportunistic foraging. Predators appeared responsive to the overall quality of prey in their habitat. Rather than remaining on a prey patch until depletion, predators appeared to vary their patch use with quality of the surrounding environment. When multiple (two) prey patches were available, residence time of predators on a prey patch was shorter than when only a single prey patch was available. Predators seemed to move among the prey patches fairly regularly, dividing their foraging time between the patches and consuming prey from each of them at a similar rate. That predators more than doubled their consumption of prey when we doubled the number of prey (by adding the second patch) is consistent with optimizing behaviors - rather than with an opportunistic increase in prey consumption brought about simply by the addition of more prey. Predators at high density, however, appeared to interfere with each other's foraging success, reflected by their lower rates of prey consumption. Blue crabs appear to forage more successfully (and their prey to experience higher mortality) in prey patches located within 15-20 meters of neighboring patch, than in isolated patches. Our results are likely to apply, at least qualitatively, to other crustacean-bivalve interactions, including those of commercial interest; their quantitative applicability will depend on the mobility of other predators and the scale of patchiness they perceive.
30244678|Current macroecological research places great emphasis on patterns of species richness (alpha diversity) and the underlying ecological and evolutionary processes involved in their origin and maintenance. However, few studies dealing with continental scales have addressed dissimilarities in species composition among areas (beta diversity). Using data for the occurrence of 3836 bird and 1641 mammal species in 4220 cells covering the New World, we assessed whether broad-scale macroecological patterns in beta diversity are related to dissimilarities in environmental variables and biotic units. We employed spatial regression and tree regression to model beta diversity. Difference in altitude was the best predictor of beta diversity. Accordingly, the highest beta diversity values were found in mountainous areas, particularly in the Andes, Central America and western North America. Explanatory variables related to transitions between biotic units (biome, ecoregion) were relatively unimportant. Areas that differ in altitude from their surroundings harbor different sets of species, and this may reflect either species adaptation to particular environmental conditions by range shifts, or species divergence by vicariance, or both.
3683590|A species' niche position may differ strongly between geographic regions, for instance due to the effect of competitors or ecophysiological stress. However, it is unclear whether such strong geographic niche variation is the rule or the exception. We compared the niche positions of plant species between central England and eastern central Europe (as available from the literature), using phylogenetically independent contrasts. We found that most species occupied similar niche positions in both regions. More importantly, we found that niche variation was not higher in species susceptible to competitive displacement. Nor was niche variation higher in species that reach the edge of their range and thus suffer ecophysiological stress. We suggest that although these species might be easily displaced in their position along a niche axis, they may only be displaced over a short distance. Overall, ecological mechanisms that cause niche variation at the local scale may be much less relevant at the geographic scale.
3683436| In the forest-savanna mosaic of Cte d'Ivoire (Parc National de la Como), we studied the guild structure of dung beetle assemblages of fresh buffalo faeces (60 samples, 19626 specimens) in three adjacent habitats: savanna parkland, gallery forest, grassland of the river valley. We found clear patterns at the guild level determined by the habitat type and time of day: in the savanna parkland during the day, telecoprids (rollers) and their kleptoparasites are dominant. At night, paracoprids (tunnelers) and endocoprids (dwellers) dominate the dung beetle assemblages. In the river valley during the day and the gallery forest all day and night, the abundance of dung beetles is very low and does not reach a competitive level. In the river valley at night, endocoprids are quite abundant. Abundances of kleptoparasites and their hosts are positively correlated. The telecoprids are the most competitively superior guild since they use the resource most rapidly, but their abundance is correlated with temperature of faeces and soil. This is probably because their mode of resource utilization is energetically costly, so they require higher temperatures in order to maximize their competitiveness. Their ecological tolerance is therefore narrow and they are only present in the savanna parkland during the day. The endocoprids are the least competitive guild, since they do not relocate the resource and so are not able to monopolize parts of it. However, their mode of resource utilization is less energetically costly. They seem to be more tolerant of temperature fluctuation and more able to cross barriers such as the gallery forest. Spatial separation of Afrotropical dung beetle guilds is likely to be due to a trade-off between competitive superiority and energetic constraints. 
3683140|Pollen analyses were carried out at two sites with contrasting land-use histories (in-field and out-land) within a single estate. The aim was to distinguish the relative importance of natural processes and cultural influence on the development of vegetation and biodiversity. The estate lies in the boreo-nemoral zone of southern Sweden, and attention is focused on the distribution of coniferous and deciduous trees. The in-fields, which lie close to the estate buildings, are currently dominated by deciduous trees, and have a documented history as fields and hay meadows. The more distant out-lands were primarily used as grazing land in the past, and support coniferous forest at present. The study covers the last 4000 yr. 2000-1000 BC: the out-lands site supported natural, dense forests consisting of Quercus, Betula, Tilia, Alnus and Corylus. 1000 BC-AD 1100: several events are best interpreted as an increased cultural activity in the area. Agriculture was based on animal husbandry and the recorded cereals probably originate from a kind of shifting cultivation. AD 1000-1800: agriculture intensified on the in-fields with cereal cultivation of increased importance, while the out-fields were used for slash-and-burn agriculture and forest grazing. The forests became more open in structure but the composition remained unchanged. An increase in Calluna was a possible consequence of over-exploitation. AD 1800 onwards: the out-field deciduous forests were rapidly replaced by Picea-Pinus coniferous forests during the 1800's. The in-fields retained deciduous forest with a continuity of Quercus and other species. There is a close, positive relationship between floristic diversity and cultural influence during the last 4000 yr. A comparison is made with a similar investigation on another estate in the region, revealing small differences between the estates, but striking similarities in the effects of land-use types on the development of vegetation. The significance of former in-fields for nature conservation is discussed, particularly as a potential source for increasing the deciduous component in commercial forestry practice.
30244527|What are the relative contribution of temperature and solar irradiance as types of energy deliveries for species richness at the ecosystem level? In order to reveal this question in lake ecosystems, we assessed zooplankton species richness in 1891 Norwegian lakes covering a wide range in latitude, altitude, and lake area. Geographical variables could largely be replaced by temperature-related variables, e.g. annual monthly maximum temperature or growth season. Multivariate analysis (PCA) revealed that not only maximum monthly temperature, but also energy input in terms of solar radiation were closely associated with species richness. This was confirmed by stepwise, linear regression analysis in which lake area was also found to be significant. We tested the predictive power of the "metabolic scaling laws" for species richness by regressing Ln of species richness over the inverse of the air temperature (in Kelvin), corrected for the activation energy (eV) as predicted by the Boltzmann constant. A significant, negative slope of 0.78 for In richness over temperature, given as 1/kT, was found, thus slightly higher than the range of slopes predicted from the scaling law (0.60-0.70). Temperature basically constrained the upper bound of species number, but it was only a modest predictor of actual richness. Both PCA-analysis and linear regression models left a large unexplained variance probably due to lake-specific properties such as catchment influence, lake productivity, food-web structure, immigration constraints or more stochastic effects.
30243237|Epichlo festucae, a common fungal symbiont of the genus Festuca (family Poaceae), can provide its host plant with protection against herbivores. However, infection might also be associated with a cost to its host plant. We examined the distribution of Epichlo festucae infection in natural populations of three fescue grasses, Festuca rubra, F. ovina and F. vivipara, on mountains in northern Sweden to determine whether infection frequency varied with reindeer Rangifer tarandus grazing pressure and altitude. Two differently-scaled approaches were used: 1) infection frequency was measured at a local scale along ten elevational transects within a ca 400 km area and 2) infection frequency was measured on a regional scale along elevational transects on 17 mountains classified as having a history of high or low reindeer grazing pressure. Mean infection frequencies in F. rubra were 10% (vegetative tillers at a local scale), and 23% (flowering culms at a regional scale), and in F. ovina they were 13% (local scale) and 15% (regional scale). Endophyte infection frequency in F. vivipara, was, on average, 12% (local scale) and 37% (regional scale). In F. rubra, infection decreased significantly with increasing altitude at both the local and regional scale, and was positively correlated with grazing pressure. In F. ovina, an opposite trend was found at the regional scale: infection frequency increased significantly with increasing altitude, while no discernible distribution pattern was observed at the local scale. No elevational trends were observed in infection of F. vivipara. These patterns in the distribution of endophyte-infected grasses in non-agricultural ecosystems may be explained by both biotic (grazing) and abiotic factors (altitude). Differences in ecology and life history of the studied grass species may also be of importance for the different results observed among species.
3683173| We monitored survival and egg production in colonies of Malacosoma disstria in the understorey to examine relationships between colony performance and forest structure at several spatial scales. As forest cover increased, fewer moths survived. Increased mortality from a virus and a parasitoid assemblage were the main causes of this result. Forest cover measured at the smallest spatial scale (53  53 m) was the best predictor of colony performance. We attribute these effects of fragmentation to fine-scale differences in microclimate between edge and interior habitats (edge effects). 
3683723|We studied the distribution and the reproductive success of the pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca and the redstart Phoenicurus phoenicurus in relation to forest patch size, edge type (clearcut vs natural), distance from the forest edge, and vegetation characteristics in a forest-dominated landscape. Breeding performances were recorded in up to 72 forest patches during 1992-1994 for birds breeding in nest-boxes. In the spring, breeding individuals of both species arrived earlier in large forest patches (> 1 ha) than in smaller ones. Pied flycatchers arrived earlier on clearcut edges than natural edges but in the redstart there was no preference for a particular edge type. The territory distance from the forest to open land edge did not affect the arrival dates of either species. In the case of the pied flycatcher, the proportion of unpaired males was highest in patches < 1 ha in size and in the case of the redstart this applied to patches < 5 ha in size. Pairing success was not related to the forest edge type or the nest's distance from the edge. Nest predation was not patch-size nor edge-related for either of the species, but in the combined data for both species nest predation was higher at clearcut edges than at natural edges. Clutch size, brood size and the survival of nestlings to the fledgling stage (fledgling/egg, %) were independent of the patch size, edge type and nest's distance from the forest edge.
3683856| We studied diet selection of the globally threatened lesser white-fronted goose Anser eythropus at a spring staging area on the island of Hailuoto (6400N, 2445E), off the western coast of Finland. We determined the diet using droppings, which were collected in late May, when the geese had left the area and migrated northwards. The sample potentially comprised of ejecta from 31 different individuals. Plant identification was based on visual determination of epidermal fragments. A total of 100 droppings were sampled using a point quadrat method. We calculated the percentage of each identified taxon in each dropping and related this to the availability of the corresponding taxon in the meadow. We measured preference for each taxon using Chesson's electivity index
3683417|Habitat suitability models can be generated using methods requiring information on species presence or species presence and absence. Knowledge of the predictive performance of such methods becomes a critical issue to establish their optimal scope of application for mapping current species distributions under different constraints. Here, we use breeding bird atlas data in Catalonia as a working example and attempt to analyse the relative performance of two methods: the Ecological Niche factor Analysis (ENFA) using presence data only and Generalised Linear Models (GLM) using presence/absence data. Models were run on a set of forest species with similar habitat requirements, but with varying occurrence rates (prevalence) and niche positions (marginality). Our results support the idea that GLM predictions are more accurate than those obtained with ENFA. This was particularly true when species were using available habitats proportionally to their suitability, making absence data reliable and useful to enhance model calibration. Species marginality in niche space was also correlated to predictive accuracy, i.e. species with less restricted ecological requirements were modelled less accurately than species with more restricted requirements. This pattern was irrespective of the method employed. Models for wide-ranging and tolerant species were more sensitive to absence data, suggesting that presence/absence methods may be particularly important for predicting distributions of this type of species. We conclude that modellers should consider that species ecological characteristics are critical in determining the accuracy of models and that it is difficult to predict generalist species distributions accurately and this is independent of the method used. Being based on distinct approaches regarding adjustment to data and data quality, habitat distribution modelling methods cover different application areas, making it difficult to identify one that should be universally applicable. Our results suggest however, that if absence data is available, methods using this information should be preferably used in most situations.
3683476|How individuals respond to habitat heterogeneity is usually measured as variation in range size and by ranking the relative importance of habitat types (habitat selection). The combined effect of how individuals incorporate different habitat types in their home ranges and allocate their time budget between them is rarely derived. Additionally, when home range size varies between individuals, habitat selection analyses might be flawed if foraging decisions are based on variation in absolute rather than proportional availability. We investigated the suitability of standard analytical approaches by measuring the spatial responses of tawny owls to habitat fragmentation. These owls inhabited woodland of various sizes, representing a fragmentation gradient from open farmland with small, isolated woodland patches, to continuous woodland within their home ranges. In 17 territories within open farmland, the available area covered by woodland increased with the square root of the area of open land embraced in the home range. The owls did not display functional response in habitat selection, but females selected woodland more strongly than males. Females utilised woodland 10 times more intensively in farmland than in continuous woods, whereas males utilised farmland woods 3.2 times more intensively. Moreover, females in farmland exploited woodland 3.2 times as intensively as males, apparently because of higher travel costs in open areas. Since the extensive variation in intensity of use as a function of total availability was not indicated from the analysis of habitat selection, we suggest that information about intensity of use be more widely used as a supplementary measure of habitat use patterns than appears to be the practice at present.
30243252|We compared predictive success in two common algorithms for modeling species' ecological niches, GARP and Maxent, in a situation that challenged the algorithms to be general - that is, to be able to predict the species' distributions in broad unsampled regions, here termed transferability. The results were strikingly different between the two algorithms - Maxent models reconstructed the overall distributions of the species at low thresholds, but higher predictive levels of Maxent predictions reflected overfitting to the input data; GARP models, on the other hand, succeeded in anticipating most of the species' distributional potential, at the cost of increased (apparent, at least) commission error. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) tests were weak in discerning models able to predict into broad unsampled areas from those that were not. Such transferability is clearly a novel challenge for modeling algorithms, and requires different qualities than does predicting within densely sampled landscapes - in this case, Maxent was transferable only at very low thresholds, and biases and gaps in input data may frequently affect results based on higher Maxent thresholds, requiring careful interpretation of model results.
30244614|Biological rhythms and activity patterns are strongly influenced by light levels, involving both the sun and the moon. The Earth's orbit around the sun, the moon's orbit around the Earth, and the intersecting angles of planes of orbit and of rotation conspire to create temporal variability in those light levels. Organisms that are preferentially active in the semi-darkness of twilight and moonlight must cope with these patterns of variability and are presumably adapted for the constraints and opportunities they present. Using field results for activity patterns of a model species (whip-poor-will: Aves: Caprimulgidae: Caprimulgus vociferus), I define biologically useful semi-darkness by reference to the position of the sun and the percentage of moonface illuminated. For such biologically useful semi-darkness, I then calculate latitudinal gradients and the temporal patterns of variation in those gradients. The substantial variability in night-time illumination contributed by the lunar cycle is largely independent of latitude, except at high latitudes during periods when there is little or no dark night. The total annual duration of semi-darkness generated by both sun and moon increases modestly with latitude. However, the seasonal variation in the distribution of that semi-darkness increases dramatically over the same gradient. At mid and high latitudes, the availability of semi-darkness is least around the summer solstice and greatest around the winter solstice, patterns that are likely to influence the phenology and related behaviours of the organisms experiencing them.
3683463|We studied environmental sensitivity and mortality related to weather inclemency in white stork nestlings Ciconia ciconia in their southern European boundary (Doana, SW Spain). The study of homeothermy acquisition and fault bars (i.e. a measure of stress on feathers) revealed that stork nestlings were specially sensitive to environmental conditions occurring before 20 d of age. Accordingly, most of nestling mortality concentrated during this sensitive period: 91% of deaths corresponded to nestlings younger than 20 d, 73% concentrating on nestlings up to 10 d-old. Nestling mortality and total breeding failure were highly variable among years, being especially high when rainy periods coincided with the early live of nestlings (between 1 April and 15 May). Maximum temperatures had a positive correlation with breeding success and nestling survival but this effect disappeared when controlling for rainfall. Our results are in agreement with previous studies conducted in other white stork populations in other latitudes. We suggest that this could be the result of a low homeothermy capacity of young nestlings jointly with an early breeding phenology that expose white storks to rain, but not to high temperatures. In the context of global climate change we suggest that the current decrease on spring rainfall could increase nestling survival while punctual rainy springs could have a negative effect on the reproduction of white storks.
3682908|Needle damages caused by mining insects on Scots pine and Norway spruce were studied in the vicinity of a pulp mill. The abundance of needles mined by the pine bud moth Exoteleia dodecella (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) on Scots pine Pinus sylvestris, and the spruce needle miner Epinotia tedella (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) on Norway spruce Picea abies had a significantly peaked response curve on logarithmic distance scale. For pine bud moth, the maximum expected population density was estimated to be at the distance of 1.35 km from the factory. The maximum expected population density for the spruce needle miner was at the distance of 1.53 km from the factory. However, for both species the curves were significantly different among transects. Both species had a peaked and significant response to sulphur level in needles as well. The maximum expected density in pine was at 1270 ppm, and in spruce at 1070 ppm sulphur concentration in pine needles. The results are consistent with earlier reports demonstrating that these mining insects frequently attack trees suffering from air pollution. The nonlinear response of both species to distance from the pulp mill suggests that E. dodecella on pine and E. tedella on spruce are rather indicators of the zone of intermediate air pollution than of strongly polluted or nearly unpolluted sites. This also agrees with the plant stress-insect performance hypothesis indicating that insect response varies with the magnitude of stress, and at very high stress levels a tree no longer provides the insects with relevant food.
3683599|We investigate the patterns of parasite species richness of small mammals of the Western Palaearctic, and the effects of insularity. We compiled 28 studies dealing with 16 species of mammals. There was a significant effect of area size on the total parasite species richness, controlling for host sample size. Four mammal species were sufficiently sampled. Two are associated with humans: Mus musculus, and Rattus rattus, and two are not associated with humans, Apodemus sylvaticus and Clethrionomys glaerolus. We show that there is an effect of insularity on parasite species richness of A. sylvaticus. Rodents associated with humans show no effect of insularity on parasite species richness. These rodents appear to reflect a more complex pattern of parasite species richness, probably because of their close association with humans. Host specificity of parasites significantly decreases on islands, with the exception of Rattus rattus. We use parasitological data in order to explore the geographical connections between host populations. We show that parasites may help to resolve these connections but we emphasise that parasites are better geographic than phylogenetic markers.
3683424|In national conservation plans, it is necessary to comparatively assess species pools of different regions and monitor their changes over time. Two specific problems arise: i) species diversity must be standardized per area, because regions differ in size, and ii) the diversity measure should take into account how common or rare the species are on the regional scale. We used the rarefaction method combined with a fitting procedure to calculate the expected number of species E(S). The method takes into account the nonlinearity of species and area, as well as how common or rare each species is and allows analysis of species groups' contribution to total species diversity. The slope parameter of the fitted power function is used as an indicator of species turnover, and thus, of -diversity. For the analysis, Switzerland was divided into seven biogeographic regions <tex-math>$(256-10642\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math>. The diversity of the total species pool and of six ecological species groups was investigated for each region. In every biogeographic region, we find the lowest species turnover in the fertilized meadow group, and the highest species turnover in the pioneer/weedy species and the mountain species groups. The results show that among Swiss regions, differences in E(S) are mainly due to the presence or absence of mountain species. Other species groups show a rather constant contribution to the regional species pools. We found the rarefaction method to be a very useful tool for assessing Swiss plant species diversity on a regional scale.
3682896|Spatial patterns in species richness of the complete New World avifauna were analysed, using data previously employed to examine spatial trends in geographic range size. This allowed variation in the patterns to be compared. Species richness was highest around the equator, and decreased towards higher latitudes in both hemispheres. This decrease was asymmetrical; at equivalent latitudes, richness was higher in the southern than in the northern hemisphere, although the reverse was true for a measure of endemism. Controlling for latitude, species richness was higher in the west than in the east. The net primary productivity of, and solar radiation received by an area were both correlated with species richness. However, neither explained more variation in richness than did latitude. No single mechanism developed to explain spatial patterns in species richness satisfactorily explains the patterns observed in the New World avifauna. We discuss reasons why this might be the case. Finally, we point out that species richness at low latitudes is not simply a multiplication of richness at high latitudes; species found at high and low latitudes are unlikely to be ecologically equivalent. Any mechanism that is proposed to explain richness patterns in New World birds will need also to account for this observation.
3682788|This study on epizoochory offers experimental data on retention times and potential dispersal distances of propagules of 13 plant species that commonly inhabit cultivated areas in the south of Sweden. Wood mouse Apodemus flavicollis was used as dispersal vector. Seven of the investigated species produce fruits that carry obvious hooks, barbs or bristles and for comparison the remaining six species, lacking such features, were also included. Excised fruits that initially carried appendages were used in a complementary comparison. Propagules were applied by hand to the back of the animals, which were then released in enclosures to move about freely. Observations were made continually until the seeds were dropped. The distance covered by the animals while moving was measured and the potential dispersal distances calculated. Small fruits were in general found to be more efficiently transported than large ones, but large propagules carrying appendages sometimes remained in place for considerable periods. The potential dispersal distances ranged up to nearly 30 m. The retention time was significantly enhanced by the presence of dispersal attributes. The behavioural pattern of the animals (grooming, movements) plays a significant part in the successful transportation of propagules. By comparing the result with similar experiments using fallow deer Dama dama and domestic cattle Bos taurus as dispersal vectors it can be stated that mice are surprisingly effective as seed dispersers. Large mammals disperse propagules on a larger scale (<1 km) compared with small mammals, that affect plant distribution more locally (<100 m). We consider adhesive dispersal a most significant component in plant metapopulation dynamics, considerably enhancing the probability of occasional propagules reaching suitable sites in a fragmented landscape.
3683637| The presence or absence of 77 rodent species was scored within 427 squares of 100  100 miles. The grid encompassed the entirety of Europe west of the Urals and north of the Caucasus, but excluded all offshore islands. Rodent distributional ranges varied between 26 000 and 22 670 000 km
3683331|A grid-based random walk model has been developed to simulate animal dispersal, taking landscape heterogeneity and linear barriers such as roads and rivers into account. The model can be used to estimate connectivity, and has been parameterized for the badger in the central Netherlands. The importance of key parameters was evaluated by means of sensitivity analysis. Results agree with field observations, and give interesting insight into the isolation of populations and potential populations. The model can be applied to obtain knowledge about dispersal processes in complex landscapes.
3683446|Epizoochory and endozoochory are well-recognized long-distance seed dispersal mechanisms, yet their relative importance has hardly been studied before. Here, epi- and endozoochory were compared on donkeys foraging in a species-rich 100 ha coastal dune ecosystem, through in vitro germination of zoochorous material obtained by fur brushing and dung collection. We identified 6675 seedlings of 66 plant species, covering 20% of the species recorded in the study area. Of the 66 species, only 16 occurred in both epi- and endozoochory samples, demonstrating the complementarity of both dispersal mechanisms. The species composition in the zoochory samples reflected a strong seasonality, and seedling numbers were partly correlated with species abundance in the study area. The non-zoochorously dispersed species in the study area differed from the zoochorous species in seed size and weight, plant height, life span, dispersal strategy and seedbank persistence. Dispersal-relevant plant traits were used to derive dispersal-functional plant types for all species in the study area. Epizoochory showed to be more specific than endozoochory and was associated with a more narrow range of dispersal-functional plant types.
30243184|African ungulate populations appear to be limited principally by their food resources. Within ungulate communities, plains zebras coexist with grazing bovids of similar body size, but rarely are the dominant species. Given the highly effective nutritional strategy of the equids and the resistance of zebras to drought, this is unexpected and suggests that zebra populations may commonly be limited by other mechanisms. Long-term research in the Serengeti ecosystem and in the Kruger National Park suggests that zebra could be less sensitive to food shortage, and more sensitive to predation, than grazing bovids: if this is a general principle, then, at a larger scale, resource availability should have a weaker effect on the abundance of zebra than on grazing ruminants of similar body size (wildebeest and buffalo), and zebras should be relatively more abundant in ecosystems where predators are rare or absent. We test these expectations using data on 23 near-natural ecosystems in east and southern Africa. The abundance of wildebeest is more closely related to resources than is that of zebra; buffalo are intermediate. We show that hyena densities are closely correlated with those of lions, and use the abundance of lions as an index of predation by large predators. The numerical response of lions to increases in the abundance of their prey was linear for mesoherbivores, and apparently so for the three species alone. Finally, the abundance of zebra relative to grazing bovids is lower in ecosystems with high biomasses of lions. These results indicate that zebras may commonly be more sensitive to top-down processes than grazing bovids: the mechanism(s) have not been demonstrated, but predation could play a role. If it is true, then when numbers of the large mammalian predators decline, zebra populations should increase faster than buffalo and wildebeest.
30243160|Ecomorphological studies of bat communities often reveal the spatial and temporal coexistence of morphologically similar species, leading to suggestions that these communities are structured by non-deterministic processes. However, the diversification of echolocation call structure in bats allows for considerable morphological similarity while still permitting niche differentiation based on specialisation for prey type and habitat structure. The recent separation of a common Palaearctic bat, the pipistrelle, into Pipistrellus pipistrellus and P. pygmaeus, which are sympatrically distributed throughout their range, raises the question as to whether these two morphologically similar species partition resources in time and space. To test the hypothesis that the coexistence of these cryptic species is facilitated by differential habitat use, 14 P. pipistrellus, and 12 P. pygmaeus were radio-tracked from adjacent maternity roosts, in northeast Scotland, from May to September 2002/2003. The two species showed distinct habitat partitioning with P. pygmaeus foraging predominantly in riparian woodland and over water, and P. pipistrellus foraging along woodland edges and short isolated tree lines. Inter-specific overlap in habitat use was low and consequently foraging ranges were segregated spatially. The degree of habitat partitioning revealed in these species, which show considerable overlap in echolocation call parameters and functional morphology, suggests that morphological features, whilst useful in separating chiropteran species into coarse-grained foraging guilds, may not predict fine-grained ecological segregation.
30244600|Ability to predict species distribution in a landscape is of crucial importance for natural resource management and species conservation. Therefore, the understanding of species habitat requirements and spatio-temporal dynamics in occurrence is needed. We examined patch occupancy patterns of the Siberian flying squirrel Pteromys volans in northern Finland across a seven year study period. Forest patches dominated by mature spruce (Picea abies) in a study area (375 km) were surveyed to monitor the presence or absence of the flying squirrel. The patch occupancy pattern was dynamic: about half of the habitat patches were occupied at least once during the study period and more patches were colonised than were abandoned. Patches that were continuously occupied (i.e. occupied during all sample periods) were typically of high quality (based on habitat and landscape characteristics), continuously unoccupied patches were usually of low quality, and intermediate quality patches were occupied intermittently. The variables explaining patch occupancy were similar each year, and a statistical model based on data from the year 2000 also predicted occupancy in 2004 with similar accuracy. However, data from a single survey were inadequate for identifying patches used intermittently by flying squirrels. Despite inconsistent occupancy, these patches may be important for the local persistence of flying squirrels. The dynamic occupancy pattern may thus affect estimates of suitable habitat area and identification of functional patch networks for landscape planning. These results emphasise the need for follow-up studies to better understand population patterns and processes in time.
3683389|The structure and composition of arthropod assemblages are strongly associated with habitat complexity. Accurate, time efficient estimates of habitat complexity may provide insights for biodiversity management in natural systems. We obtained high-resolution (0.7 m pixel) multi-spectral aerial imagery of National Parks 20 km north and 20 km south of Sydney, Australia. We explored both the Normalised Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and the standard deviation of reflectance in the near-infrared spectrum (<tex-math>${\rm stdevR}_{{\rm NIR}}$</tex-math>) as indicators of low and high habitat complexity in sandstone forests north of Sydney. We then tested described predictions of ant community patterns (based on a previous study) using sites selected from high-resolution multi-spectral imagery in sandstone forests south of Sydney. Ground-scored habitat complexity was positively correlated with NDVIs and, to a lesser extent, <tex-math>${\rm stdevR}_{{\rm NIR}}$</tex-math> values in sandstone forests north of Sydney. As predicted, ant species richness was negatively correlated with NDVIs in forests to the south of Sydney. Also, ant species composition was different in areas with contrasting NDVIs. The ant species driving composition differences responded to habitat complexity in a similar way in forests to the north, and south, of Sydney. The strong association we detected between NDVIs and habitat complexity, most likely reflects the relatively exposed nature of the vegetative layers in the forests we sampled. Remote sensing, integrated with quantitative research testing predictive faunal responses to vegetation structure and biomass at landscape scales, may provide efficient means of estimating biodiversity for management in particular habitats.
3682831| Corydalis ambigua is one of major spring-ephemerals exhibiting ant-dispersal in Hokkaido, northern Japan. Seed dispersal in this herb species was observed in a field. To attract ants, C. ambigua has small spherical seeds with large elaiosomes containing lipids. In the quadrat census, 284 (11%) of 2560 seeds were moved away from their mother plants and 131 (46%) of them were recovered into ant nests. The mean dispersal distance was 48.3  SD 34.4 cm. Also the spatial distribution of C. ambigua seedlings suggested that the seeds were frequently dispersed by ants. The direct observations revealed that the main dispersal ant species were Myrmica kotokui and Lasius japonicus. Additionally some ground beetles including Pterostichus spp. often devoured elaiosomes and seeds. Corydalis ambigua seeds were dropped for about two weeks in late May. The collecting by pitfall trap revealed that, in this short period, the frequency of ant foraging on the ground was high and ground beetles were a little yet. Moreover, in the seed removal experiments, seeds were more frequently removed in this seed-fall period while seed predation by ground beetles was intensive after the period. 
3683694|Carabid beetle communities were studied at three levels of spatial scale, i.e. within fields (three sets of traps, mean distance 15 m), between fields (five fields within 1 km from each other) and between patches of farmland (four study areas 4-8 km from each other). We compared carabid assemblages sampled on five crop types in each study area, i.e. ley, set-aside, spring cereal, potato, and sugar beet. Because of small sample sizes, only the community composition was studied within fields with a DCA ordination, but the differences were small. Analyses of species richness, activity density, community composition as revealed by DCA ordinations, dominance structure, diversity, and evenness showed that carabid communities varied significantly among patches of farmland but not between fields with different crops within the patches. Only the communities of potato fields were found to resemble each other. Only five carabid beetle species showed a preference for crops, and twelve species favoured some study areas. We conclude that the effect of spatial scale should be emphasised in further studies as it seems that carabid beetles may be very localised even in agricultural habitats.
3683775|Forest fragmentation leads to the creation of isolated forest patches with subsequent impact on forest-interior flora and fauna. Forested corridors have been suggested to alleviate some of the impact by increasing the connectivity between remnant forest patches. However, both fragmentation and corridors increase the ratio of edge to core habitat. We studied nest predation of artificial nests at edges between 1) contiguous forests and pastures and 2) forested corridors and pastures, in a forest-dominated landscape in the dry Chaco, Paraguay. The aim was to determine if nest predation was higher near habitat edges compared to within forests and pastures, with special emphasis on edges at forested corridors. We found that predation rates were similar at edges and in interior habitats. Nest predation was higher for both ground and shrub nests in forested areas than in pastures. Predation rates were also higher for both ground and shrub nests at edges along forested corridors compared to edges neighbouring contiguous forests. Forested corridors connecting contiguous forests may thus act as an ecological sink for some species breeding here. Analysis of predator categories revealed that ground nests in pastures were relatively more depredated by mammals and less by birds, compared to both shrub nests in pastures and ground nests in forests.
3683677|Pinus halepensis has been extensively planted in semi-arid areas throughout the world. This has often led to slow-growth stands that: a) suffer from insect plagues, b) promote nutrient depletion and c) fail to promote the recovery of native vegetation. The introduction of native late-successional shrubs in these stands could stimulate successional processes, improve soil conditions and enhance their resilience against disturbances. The main objective of this study was to evaluate the mechanisms underlying the interaction between Pinus and the native late-successional shrub Pistacia lentiscus in a semi-arid plantation. By using manipulative field and laboratory experiments, we evaluated direct (competition for soil resources and allelopathic effects) and indirect (competition with herbaceous understorey) interactions between Pinus and Pistacia. We found no effect of Pinus litter and root exudates on Pistacia growth. In the field, Pistacia seedlings planted under the canopy of Pinus showed higher survival than those planted in open areas with sparse vegetation. Girdling of Pinus trees did not affect the performance of planted Pistacia seedlings, but suppression of the herbaceous understorey significantly enhanced both survival and physiological status of Pistacia seedlings planted under the canopy of Pinus. The magnitude of the interference by herbaceous understorey was considerably higher than that by Pinus. Our results provide evidence that a negative indirect interaction between Pinus and Pistacia, mediated by the herbaceous understorey, is taking place in the afforestation studied, and can help to explain the low rates of colonisation of late-successional woody shrubs typically observed in semi-arid Pinus halepensis plantations.
3683511|Island communities are generally viewed as being more susceptible to invasion than those of mainland areas, yet empirical evidence is almost lacking. A species-by-species examination of introduced birds in two independent island-mainland comparisons is not consistent with this hypothesis. In the New Zealand-mainland Australia comparison, 16 species were successful in both regions, 19 always failed and only eight had mixed outcomes. Mixed results were observed less often than expected by chance, and in only 5 cases was the relationship in the predicted direction. This result is not biased by differences in introduction effort because, within species, the number of individuals released in New Zealand did not differ significantly from those released in mainland Australia. A similar result emerged in the Hawaiian islands-mainland USA comparison: among the 35 species considered, 15 were successful in both regions, seven always failed and 13 had mixed outcomes. In this occasion, the results fit well to those expected by chance, and in only seven cases was the relationship in the direction predicted. I therefore conclude that, if true, the view that islands are less resistant than continents to invasions is far from universal.
3683045|Disease incidence of the parasitic rust fungus Uromyces lineolatus (Pucciniaceae) on Glaux maritima (Primulaceae) was recorded in three transects across a Baltic sea shore meadow. The effects of the fungus on growth, flowering, seed production and germinability were investigated. No significant differences between healthy and diseased plants were found except for abortion rate, germinability and germination rate. Incidence of the disease seems to be correlated with accumulation of litter from the winter host Scirpus maritimus (Cyperaceae).
3683332|This study reports the relationships between rainfall and ambient temperature with the abundances and prevalences of three species of ectoparasitic arthropods (viz, mites, blowfly larvae, fleas) in pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca nests in three different breeding seasons. In addition to its effects on the growth of nestling pied flycatchers, weather conditions were found to determine patterns of abundance and prevalence of ectoparasites. Nest ectoparasites had detrimental effects on the fitness (nestling growth and survival until fledgling) of their hosts, although the effects and the identity of harmful ectoparasites varied across the years. Among the three species of nest ectoparasites, mites had the most consistent harmful effects on nestling growth. Fleas were detrimental in the more cold and rainy year, while blowflies caused nestling mortality in the warmer year. Different host-parasite interactions were present each year, most likely due to the effects of weather on the activity and timing of development of parasite populations.
30244638|Ponds are important habitats within many landscapes because of the diversity of wildlife they support. This arises in part because of the heterogeneity of ecological communities found in neighbouring ponds but this variation has proved difficult to explain. Chance and unrecorded historic events have often been emphasised as explanations. This study describes the development of spatial heterogeneity and the role of historic events in the development of pond plant macrophyte communities from the ponds' creation until ten later using thirty small, adjacent temporary ponds in Northumberland. Plant communities showed significant spatial variation from the first year onwards. Metacommunity spatial patterns changed over time but even after ten years several distinct macrophyte communities persisted in different ponds. The outcome was that a greater variety of pond communities persisted than was likely if a single, larger pond had been created on the site. The spatial patterns of the plants communities were compared to spatial variation of summer dry-phase and winter inundation. Macrophyte heterogeneity appeared to result from deterministic change which would have been difficult to detect in a snap-shot survey not knowing the history of the ponds. Winter inundation showed significant spatial trends every year which mirrored the changing distribution of macrophyte communities between ponds. The proximate influence of the inundation is ultimately determined by the position of each pond in the landscape so that the marked spatial and temporal heterogeneity of plant communities was strongly influenced by small scale variation in hydrology. The results suggest that the heterogeneity of pondlife across a landscape may be deterministic when recorded over a longer time period and not due to chance, but that the determining environmental factors are highly contingent on the locality of the pond.
3682822| On sand dunes at Meijendel (the Netherlands) the thistle Carlina vulgaris grows almost exclusively near shrubs of willow (Salix repens) and more rarely near shrubs of sea buckthorn (Hippopha rhamnoides), although both scrubs occur in similar frequency. The critical stage in the life cycle is the phase of establishment of seedlings, which is better in Salix than in Hippopha. Once established, the performance of plants is better under buckthorn than willow. Watering greatly improved seedling establishment and subsequent growth, especially under sea buckthorn. As a result, after watering the total biomass of C. vulgaris became even higher in buckthorn scrub than in willow. Because of its higher humus content, the water content of the top 10 cm of the soil was consistently higher (c. 55%) under willow than buckthorn. Apparently low water availability prevents C. vulgaris from establishing outside willow scrub but once this limitation has been overcome, other habitats are entirely suitable for growth. Roots of C. vulgaris plants in unwatered plots in willow were less colonized by mycorrhiza than in buckthorn plots. Our results do not indicate that mycorrhiza helps seedling establishment. 
3683712|Mid-domain models have been argued to provide a default explanation for the best known spatial pattern in biodiversity, namely the latitudinal gradient in species richness. These models assume no environmental gradients, but merely a random latitudinal association between the size and placement of the geographic ranges of species. A mid-domain peak in richness is generated because when the latitudinal extents of species in a given taxonomic group are bounded to north and south, perhaps by a physical constraint such as a continental edge or perhaps by a climatic constraint such as a critical temperature or precipitation threshold, then the number of ways in which ranges can be distributed changes systematically between the bounds. In addition, such models make predictions about latitudinal variation in the latitudinal extents of the distributions of species, and in beta diversity (the spatial turnover in species identities). Here we test how well five mid-domain models predict observed latitudinal patterns of species richness, latitudinal extent and beta diversity in two groups of birds, parrots and woodpeckers, across the New World. Whilst both groups exhibit clear gradients in richness and beta diversity and the general trend in species richness is acceptably predicted (but not accurately, unless substantial empirical information is assumed), the fit of these models is uniformly poor for beta diversity and latitudinal range extent. This suggests either that, at least for these data, as presently formulated mid-domain models are too simplistic, or that in practice the mid-domain effect is not significant in determining geographical variation in diversity.
3683087|The influence of the interface between different vegetation types on the surface active spider fauna within a grass pasture-coniferous plantation ecotone was sampled by pitfall trapping. Species abundance, richness and diversity relative to pitfall traps were measured along a transect across the ecotone. Spider species were classified into six categories based on their habitat preference and the influence of the non-preferred habitat. The number of individuals trapped progressively decreased from the pasture across the interface to the plantation habitat. Species richness increased by some 72% and diversity by some 141% at the interface. These increases were attributable to both the overlap of pasture and plantation species invading the non-preferred habitat across the interface, and to the presence of species with a preference for the ecotone. The overlap of pasture and plantation species was found to be the larger part of the spider community at the interface, species classed as ecotone accounting for only 25% of the catch at the interface. Distinct spider species assemblages were found in the pasture and plantation habitats, and the interface species composition was more similar to the plantation than to the pasture. The variation in physical and biological characteristics which the interface induces, and their influence on the spider assemblages found, are discussed in relation to other ecotone studies.
3683143|The micro-habitat food selectivity along a gradient of increasing grazing intensity of wintering pink-footed geese Anser brachyrhynchus and barnacle geese Branta leucopsis foraging on winter wheat Triticum aestivum and smooth meadow grass Poa pratensis was investigated. Protein content of ungrazed primary and secondary leaves of winter wheat did not differ, whereas the protein content of tertiary leaves was significantly lower. Secondary leaves were significantly longer than both primary and tertiary leaves, whereas tertiary leaves were significantly longer than primary leaves. Protein content of primary and secondary leaves of Poa pratensis did not differ, whereas the protein content of tertiary leaves was significantly lower. Primary leaves were significantly shorter than both secondary and tertiary leaves, which did not differ significantly. For all leaf categories, there was an increase in the removal with increasing goose grazing intensity. The geese showed a sequential selection of winter wheat leaves according to the protein content, initially preferring primary and secondary leaves, but increasingly selecting tertiary leaves of poorer quality as high-quality leaves became depleted. Foraging on Poa pratensis, geese selected secondary leaves according to the protein content, whereas tertiary leaves were preferred to primary leaves, although these had a protein content equal to secondary leaves. This, however, may be explained by the primary leaves being too short to maintain intake rates. It is concluded that feeding preferences cannot be established on the basis of protein contents of food plants alone and that green biomass estimates not necessarily reflect resource availability.
30243196|The phenology of reproduction is often correlated with resource availability and is hypothesized to be shaped by selective forces in order to maximize lifetime reproductive success. African elephants have the distinctive life history traits of a 22 month gestation and extended offspring investment, necessitating a long-term strategy of energy acquisition and reproductive expenditure to ensure successful offspring recruitment. We investigated the relationship between the reproductive phenology of a wild elephant population and resource availability using remotely sensed Normalized differential vegetation index (NDVI) data as a measure of time-specific primary productivity and hence forage quality. The initiation of female elephants' 3 +yr reproductive bout was dependent on conditions during the season of conception but timed so parturition occurred during the most likely periods of high primary productivity 22 months later. Thus, the probability of conception is linked to the stochastic variation in seasonal quality and the phenology of parturition is related to the predictable seasonality of primary productivity, indicating elephants integrate information on known current and expected future conditions when reproducing. Juvenile mortality was not correlated with ecological variability, hence female fecundity rather than calf mortality appears to drive demographic processes in the study population. Extreme climatic events, such as those associated with the El Nio-Southern-Oscillation (ENSO), acted to synchronize female fecundity in the population. This study suggests that the relationship between fecundity and ecological variability instigates the characteristic demographic fluctuations in elephant populations, rather than the mortality-driven fluctuations observed in many ungulate populations.
3683432|We investigated and compared the patch occupancy and colonisation and extinction over a 40-yr period in the vascular plant Silene viscosa in two archipelagos off the Swedish east coast. We also assessed the importance of regional vs local dynamics for regional persistence by examining factors affecting colonisation and extinction processes. We found an effect of isolation on the patch occupancy in 1957, but this effect disappeared 1997. The effect of isolation was not detected when analysing colonisations and extinctions during the 40-yr period separately, which suggests that the colonisations and extinctions since 1957 have changed the patch occupancy of S. viscosa. The change in the patch occupancy is attributed to an increased colonisation, presumably mediated by the increase of the greylag goose Anser anser. The large amplitude of population size change, the high persistence of populations during a 40-yr period, and the long term persistence for some populations all suggest that the distribution pattern approximates a distribution that is expected to be generated from an Island-Mainland model, where a number of large populations are persistent and a number of smaller populations are more prone to extinction due to catastrophes (nesting cormorants) and environmental stochasticity (summer drought). Most evidence suggests that regional processes are of less importance than local processes for regional persistence on a time scale of 40 yr for S. viscosa.
3682998|Modern forestry has changed the fire dynamics in the boreal forest, and as a result the size and number of deciduous forest patches have been reduced as well as the number of deciduous trees within the coniferous forest. This has exaggerated the insularity of deciduous forest patches within the boreal coniferous forest zone. In this paper I examine whether the diversity of beetles living in dead stems of deciduous trees follows the relationship with patch area to be predicted from island biogeographic theory, and to what extent the species assemblages differ between large and small patches and single deciduous trees within managed coniferous forests. Three larger patches of deciduous forest (>120 ha) arisen as successions after forest fires in the late 1880's are compared with 6 small (<20 ha) patches of similar origin. No difference in diversity could be detected between large and small patches. A statistically significant difference between assembly composition was detected using matrix regression between a matrix of observed assembly similarities and a hypothetical similarity matrix based on the type of area in which the plot was situated (large, small or matrix). Finally, I examined the distribution of the 56 most common beetle species over the habitat types investigated. Thirtyfour species did not show any significant habitat preference, 12 were found more often in clear-cut areas than expected, 5 were over-represented in small patches, and 4 in large areas. My explanation to this apparent lack of insularity effects is the relative recent commencement of intensive forestry in these areas and the fact that the matrix is of rather high quality, that is, inhabitable for numerous beetle species. Thus, the patches may be viewed as incipient islands, still exchanging biota with their surroundings.
30244656|Habitat selection in ungulates should ensure access to abundant forage of sufficiently high quality. Species living in rugged mountain areas have to face nutritional bottlenecks regularly and should show particularly sophisticated habitat selection behaviour. However, patterns and mechanisms of such adaptations remain little studied. We analysed habitat selection and its seasonal variability of 10 GPS-collared red deer Cervus elaphus living in a topographically challenging landscape of the Swiss Alps. We hypothesised that resource selection by red deer was scale-dependent and predicted that scale-dependence would vary among seasons in relation to seasonal changes of available forage biomass and quality, which we sampled across the entire study area of 250 km. The studied population of Alpine red deer undertook altitudinal migrations and showed scale-dependent habitat selection that was strongest in winter and declined through spring and summer. Selection occurred mostly at the larger (landscape/home-range location) scale and less so at the smaller (within home-range) scale. Topographic parameters were selected mainly at the landscape scale and mostly in winter. About 70% of all instances of preference for habitat parameters were associated with above-average forage characteristics, represented mostly by higher crude protein content, in a few cases also by higher biomass or both. The overall pattern of space use by red deer characterised by migration and seasonal habitat selection was therefore closely linked to the quality of food resources, although some trade-offs with avoiding human disturbance may also have been involved.
30243183|Animal movements at large spatial scales are of great importance in population ecology, yet little is known due to practical problems following individuals across landscapes. We studied the whole Norwegian population of a small songbird (ortolan bunting, Emberiza hortulana) occupying habitat patches dispersed over nearly 500 km. Movements of colour-ringed males were monitored during ten years, and extensive long-distance dispersal was recorded. More than half of all cases of breeding dispersal took place within one breeding season, and males moved up to 43 km between singing territories, using 1-22 d. Natal dispersal was usually to a habitat patch close to the natal patch, or within the natal patch if it was large. Breeding dispersal movements were often long-distance, beyond neighbouring patches, and up to 11-19 patches were overflown. Movements of at least 6-9 km across areas of unsuitable habitat occurred regularly. The number of patches visited was low (1-4) even though search costs in terms of time spent moving from one site to another were relatively low (often only a few days even for distances >10 km). Most males seemed to use a threshold tactic when choosing a patch, but returns to previously visited patches were recorded, including some cases of commuting. In conclusion, male ortolan buntings have a surprising ability to move quickly at the landscape level, and this resulted in a high connectivity of patches. We discuss our results in relation to optimal searching strategies, in particular the use of within-breeding season versus post-breeding season search, conspecific attraction and adaptive late arrival of young birds.
3683185|During January-April 1989, we monitored survival, reproduction, and body condition of 19 radio-collared arctic hares Lepus arcticus introduced to two predominantly (80%) forested islands, Merchant (66.1 ha) and Burke (82.6 ha), in Placentia Bay, Newfoundland. By late April, bone-marrow fat (42.7%) and kidney fat indices were lower than found in populations on the mountain barrens of western Newfoundland. However, most island hares gained weight overwinter, and litter sizes (mean, 4.2 in utero) and testis weights (mean, 8.3 g) were as large or larger than recorded from other introduced and natural populations in Newfoundland. The distribution of telemetry locations, tracks and feeding sites indicated that hares frequented the scattered barrens (totalling c. 30 ha) on both islands in greater proportion than available. These results suggest that, in the absence of snowshoe hares and mammalian predators, forested regions interspersed with small patches of barrens can sustain arctic hares.
3683370| Altitudinal richness patterns were investigated along altitudinal gradients located in northern Norway (two transects) and along a west-east gradient in southern Norway (five transects). The transects were sampled for vascular plant species richness using a uniform sampling method. Each transect consisted of 38-48 5  5 m sample plots regularly spaced from sea level or valley bottom to a local mountain top. In five transects species richness peaked at mid-altitudes, whereas in the two northern transects species richness decreased with altitude. The observations were qualitatively evaluated in relation to the influence of the area of the species pool, hard boundaries, temperature and precipitation, and mass effect. The observed patterns cannot be fully accounted for by any of these factors. However, the altitude of the peak in species richness was above the forest-limit for all the humped relationships, which may suggest that species richness above the forest-limit might be enhanced by a mass effect from forest taxa. The two monotonic relationships found in the north may be caused by the relatively low number of alpine species at these sites. The monotonic pattern may result from a decrease in "forest species" towards the mountain tops. 
3682973|We analyzed the patterns of association between sex and age classes of fallow deer Dama dama in addition to the modification of aggregation patterns as a function of the degree of cover in different habitats in a coastal submediterranean environment in Italy. Deer preferred large open grasslands, small clearings, woods and marshes. Habitat selection varied strongly according to sex, and there were also ecological differences among males of different age classes. Adult females were mostly in family groups, with subadults and fawns. These groups were very stable in time and space. On the contrary bachelor herds were unstable social associations, adapting their size to the local degree of cover. In open grasslands males and females sometimes formed mixed groups with group size similarly being adapted to degree of cover. The possibility that random events fully explained fallow deer aggregation patterns was excluded, while the existence of non-linear mechanisms of aggregation was shown. The persistence of antipredator strategies in this managed population may account for these findings.
3682863|The larvae of freshwater mussels are obligate ectoparasites on fishes while adults are sedentary and benthic. Dispersal of mussels is dependent on the movement of fish hosts, a regional process, but growth and reproduction should be governed by local processes. Thus, mussel assemblage attributes should be predictable from the regional distribution and abundance of fishes. At a broad spatial scale in the Red River drainage, USA, mussel species richness and fish species richness were positively associated; maximum mussel richness was limited by fish richness, but was variable beneath that constraint. Measured environmental variables and the associated local fish assemblages each significantly accounted for the regional variation in mussel assemblages. Furthermore, mussel assemblages showed strong spatial autocorrelation. Variation partitioning revealed that pure fish effects accounted for 15.4% of the variation in mussel assemblages; pure spatial and environmental effects accounted for 16.1% and 7.8%, respectively. Shared variation among fish, space and environmental variables totaled 40%. Of this shared variation, 36.8% was associated with the fish matrix. Thus, the variation in mussel assemblages that was associated with the distribution and abundance of fishes was substantial (> 50%), indicating that fish community structure is an important determinant of mussel community structure. Although animals commonly disperse plants and, thus, influence the structure of plant communities, our results show a strong macroecological association between two disparate animal groups with one strongly affecting the assemblage structure of the other.
3683740|We report work on a cold, windy South American steppe dominated by tussock grasses and shrubs of small stature that, together, cover only half of the soil surface. Our objective was to find out why seedlings and juveniles of these dominant species are generally absent from the bare or poorly-populated spots (gaps) that exist between established individuals. We hypothesized that matrix-forming species fail to colonize gaps because of a lack of properly-placed seeds, contained in diaspores which because of their morphology are blown away from gaps that otherwise would constitute safe sites for recruitment. We evaluated diaspore size and wing loading (weight:area ratio) for all common species in the community, collected seed-bank samples in different occasions and microsites, and performed detailed field observations for one gap-dwelling species during several years. We found that: 1) Seeds of the dominant, matrix-forming species are uncommon in the soil bank of the center of the gaps between established vegetation. 2) Seeds of the dominant species are more abundant towards the edges of the gaps than at their center. 3) Diaspores of those species present in the seed bank of the gaps are smaller than diaspores of absent species; contrary to expectations, not all gap-dwelling species had larger diaspore wing loading than non-gap species. 4) Seeds and adult densities of the most common gap species (the annual Camissonia dentata), were correlated between them and across subsequent years. We conclude that it is not an overall shortage of seeds that precludes the dominant species from becoming established in the gaps, but rather the seeds' uneven spatial distribution. We further argue that gaps would be suitable sites for recruitment, but large diaspore size makes seeds of the dominant species to be blown away by the strong westerly winds.
30243115|Landscape boundaries, in particular those created by natural disturbances, are fundamental structures in landscape functioning. At the stand scale, forest boundaries show a wide range of characteristics varying from sharp to diffuse, wavy to straight, enclosed areas (patches) to open ones; all of these have different effects of forest vegetation. The objectives of this study were 1) to characterize the structure of forest boundaries (width, steepness, heterogeneity) and 2) to investigate forest vegetation functional response in the boundary zones created by wildfires and mountain pine beetle (MPB) outbreaks. We studied 11 mountain pine beetle and 7 wildfire boundary zones (4-7 yr since disturbance) using field-based two-dimensional grids in southern central British Columbia (Canada). Boundary zone delineation was determined through spatially constrained clustering algorithms at three sampling unit resolutions (5 x 5 m, 10 x 10 m, and 20 x 20 m). Then, to characterize boundary width and shape, we developed two new boundary indexes (maximized and minimized boundary zones). The identified boundary widths ranged from 0 to 127 m with a mean width of 51 m at the 20 x 20 m resolution for both fire and MPB. Although the widths were comparable between disturbance types, fires generally had steeper boundaries (more pronounced) than MPB, largely due to higher peak tree mortality within the disturbances (89 vs 43%). Most of the forest vegetation response variables (understory vegetation diversity, plot-level species richness, evenness, and multivariate community measures) in the boundary zones tended not to be intermediate in value between the intact forest and disturbance area, in spite of intermediate tree mortality. Tree mortality heterogeneity in the boundary zones was often highest in fires and was equal to the internal heterogeneity in MPB disturbances. Using historical natural disturbance patterns as a conservation strategy, this study proposes that forest management should create boundary complexity (width and shape), thereby creating landscape heterogeneity similar to landscapes influenced primarily by natural disturbances.
3683101|Prevalence and intensity of blood parasites are known to vary in space within a same species, yet the causes underlying such variation are poorly known. Theoretically, blood parasites variation can be attributed to differences to exposure to parasite vectors and/or to differences in host susceptibility. Here, we show that prevalence of Haemoproteus columbae in feral pigeons Columba livia varied among five near-by populations (range 15%-100%), paralleled by variation in the abundance of its main vector, the louse flies Pseudolynchia canariensis. Geographic variation in intensity of blood parasites did not covary with abundance of vectors. Within populations, older individuals had a higher probability of being parasitized than younger ones, whereas younger birds, when infected, suffered higher intensities. Furthermore, we found no evidence of sex-related differences neither in prevalence nor in intensity of blood parasite infections. To demonstrate that geographical variation in prevalence was actually due to differences in vector exposure, we conducted two experiments based on translocation of unparasitized pigeons from a vector-free area to an area where both the parasite and vector were abundant. With the first experiment, we demonstrated that unparasitized pigeons were not resistant to the parasite because when transmission was possible pigeons became parasitized in a few months. With the second experiment, in which half of the pigeons were prevented from contacts with the vector, we ruled out the posibility that pigeons we considered as unparasitized would have suffered from latent infections. Therefore, both observational and experimental evidence supports the view that vector abundance is the major factor influencing the spatial variation in prevalence of H. columbae in pigeons.
30244694|We analyzed the relationship between population abundance and variability of western scrub-jays Aphelocoma californica based on 48 yr of Audubon Christmas Bird Counts and the resources on which they depend as indexed by the diversity and abundance of mast-producing oaks and pines and, for California, estimates of acorn production based on a statewide survey. In general, populations of A. c. californica along the Pacific coast were related to oaks, with populations being more abundant and more stable in areas with more oak species and greater oak abundance. In contrast, populations of A. c. woodhouseii in the Great Basin were correlated with pines/conifers, again with higher abundance and greater stability with increased number of pine species and greater abundance of pines/conifers. The presumed driver of these patterns is increased resource abundance with greater habitat abundance and increased resource stability with increasing species diversity due to asynchrony in seed production among different species of trees. Asynchrony in acorn production is particularly high among oaks that require different number of years to produce acorns, but we failed to confirm that populations with access to both types were more stable than those with access to only one type after controlling for oak diversity. However, we did find a strong positive correlation between overall mean scrub-jay abundance in California and overall acorn production one year earlier, suggesting that acorns benefit scrub-jay populations primarily by increasing reproductive success the following year. These patterns demonstrate the strong dependence between population dynamics and resource stability as well as how different these relationships can be within closely related taxa.
3683769|The spatio-temporal structure of an earthworm community was assessed in a tropical Colombian pasture and compared with the patterns of soil heterogeneity. Earthworms were sampled at six dates during a period of one year, while soil properties were assessed at a single date at the end of this period. Sample design was spatially explicit and consisted in a regular grid of 5 m mesh. At each date, 120 samples were taken for earthworm evaluations, while the single soil sampling consisted in 60 points. Multivariate and geostatistical analyses were performed to describe the spatial structure of collected data. Mantel and partial Mantel's tests were used to assess the links between the spatio-temporal patterns of earthworm distribution and soil heterogeneity. The results clearly demonstrated the existence of structured spatial patterns in the earthworm community which were stable in time, at least at the temporal scale concerned by the study period. It mostly corresponded to an alternation of patches where particular species assemblages dominated. The ecological significance of these assemblages is discussed. Soil properties also displayed a significant spatial organisation. Only a small part of the spatio-temporal structures of earthworm distribution was correlated with soil properties. Small species were more abundant in patches where soil was more compact, while large species were associated with high root biomass and total C levels. The question whether earthworm spatio-temporal distribution induces similar patterns in soil properties or the contrary occurs is discussed. Our results suggest that earthworm community organisation mostly corresponds to a non-equilibrium system where mobile earthworm populations influence soil properties. The overall effect of earthworm community on soil is difficult to assess due to the predominance of factors that preferentially express themselves at large scales in the ecological hierarchy.
3683414|Although some consensus exists regarding the positive synergism between energy and heterogeneity in increasing species diversity, the role of environmental variability remains controversial. We examine how these factors interact to explain spatial variation in mammal species richness in South America. After taking into account the effects of spatial autocorrelation and area, elevation variability and energy mainly drive spatial variation in mammal species richness. The effect of environmental variability is less important. When different taxonomic groups of mammals are analyzed separately, three ways emerge whereby energy and heterogeneity interact to promote species richness. Heterogeneity may have no effect on species richness, habitat heterogeneity and energy availability contribute independently to species richness, or heterogeneity increases in importance with an increase in energy availability. The partition of species into range size quartiles shows that habitat heterogeneity and temporal instability in the resource supply account for the species richness pattern in the narrowest- ranging species. Habital heterogeneity is significant also for intermediate ranging species but not for the widest-ranging species. Energy alone drives the species richness pattern in the latter species. The interplay between ecology and biogeographic history may ultimately explain these differences given that narrow- and wide-ranging species show distinct biogeographic patterns, and different taxonomic groups also unequally represent them.
3683482|Although invasive plants are recognized as a major ecological problem, little is known of the relative importance of plant community characteristics versus landscape context in determining invasibility of communities. We determined the relative importance of community and landscape features of 30 woodlots in influencing the invasion of Lonicera maackii. We sampled woodlots using the point-quarter method and calculated canopy openness and basal areas and densities of shrub, sapling and tree species, as well as woody species richness. We used aerial photos and ArcView GIS to calculate landscape parameters from the same woodlots using a buffer distance of 1500 m. We used logistic and linear regression analyses to determine the community and landscape factors that best explain L. maackii presence and density. We also tested whether woodlot invasion by L. maackii begins at woodlot edges. Presence of L. maackii was significantly explained only by distance from the nearest town (logistic regression, p = 0.017); woodlots nearer town were more likely to be invaded. Among invaded woodlots, density of L. maackii was positively related to the amount of edge in the landscape (partial <tex-math>${\rm R}^{2}=0.592$</tex-math>) and negatively related to total tree basal area (partial <tex-math>${\rm R}^{2}=0.134$</tex-math>), number of native woody species (partial <tex-math>${\rm R}^{2}=0.054$</tex-math>), and sapling shade tolerance index (partial <tex-math>${\rm R}^{2}=0.054$</tex-math>). Lonicera maackii in woodlot interiors were not younger than those on the perimeters, leading us to reject the edge-first colonization model of invasion. Our findings reveal that landscape structure is of primary importance and community features of secondary importance in the invasion of L. maackii. This shrub is invading from multiple foci (towns) rather than an advancing front. Connectivity in the landscape (i.e. the number of corridors) did not promote invasion. However, edge habitat was important for invasion, probably due to increased propagule pressure. The community features associated with L. maackii invasion may be indicators of past disturbance.
30244696|A recent interspecific study found Bergmann's size dines for Holarctic anurans and proposed an explanation based on heat balance to account for the pattern. However, this analysis was limited to cold temperate regions, and exploring the patterns in warmer tropical climates may reveal other factors that also influence anuran body size variation. We address this using a Cerrado anuran database. We examine the relationship between mean body size in a grid of 1 cells and environmental predictors and test the relative support for four hypotheses using an AIC-based model selection approach. Also, we considered three different amphibian phylogenies to partition the phylogenetic and specific components of the interspecific variation in body size using a method analogous to phylogenetic eigen vector regression (PVR). To consider the potential effects of spatial autocorrelation we use eigenvector-based spatial filters. We found the largest species inhabiting high water deficit areas in the northeast and the smallest in the wet southwest. Our results are consistent with the water availability hypothesis which, coupled with previous findings, suggests that the major determinant of interspecific body size variation in anurans switches from energy to water towards the equator. We propose that anuran body size gradients reflect effects of reduced surface to volume ratios in larger species to control both heat and water balance.
3683072|We investigated the geographical patterns of community composition and size structure of murid rodent assemblages in Japan. Rodent faunal composition showed three biogeographic zones in the studied area (Hokkaido, northern Honshu and southern Honshu), which are characterized by endemic species or genera. There was a large discrepancy between distribution patterns of murine species, which are generalist and widespread in Japan, and arvicoline species, which are more specialized and locally restricted. We also found a strong degree of nestedness of the murid rodent fauna, i.e. smaller faunas were subsets of larger ones, which is typical of relict fauna. The structure of murid rodent assemblages was studied using the size and shape of the lower incisor, in order to test for the effect of interspecific competition on community-wide patterns. We used two different approaches: one tests for regularity in the size structure of the community (Barton and David test), and the other one tests for minimum mean overlap size in the community between species (randomization procedure). There was no congruence between the results of the two tests: we did not find any case of regular size structure, whereas mean size overlaps were minimum or even zero in about half of the cases studied. Thus, the evolution of rodent communities on islands seems to be characterized by minimization of size overlaps, perhaps as a result of interspecific competition. Also, the reduction of island area, which is correlated with a decrease in species richness, is accompanied by an increase in Hutchinsonian size ratios and a decrease in the total size range of the community. These patterns may be linked to the reduced diversity of environmental resources on islands.
3683663|In ecological field surveys, observations are gathered at different spatial locations. The purpose may be to relate biological response variables (e.g., species abundances) to explanatory environmental variables (e.g., soil characteristics). In the absence of prior knowledge, ecologists have been taught to rely on systematic or random sampling designs. If there is prior knowledge about the spatial patterning of the explanatory variables, obtained from either previous surveys or a pilot study, can we use this information to optimize the sampling design in order to maximize our ability to detect the relationships between the response and explanatory variables? The specific questions addressed in this paper are: a) What is the effect (type I error) of spatial autocorrelation on the statistical tests commonly used by ecologists to analyse field survey data? b) Can we eliminate, or at least minimize, the effect of spatial autocorrelation by the design of the survey? Are there designs that provide greater power for surveys, at least under certain circumstances? c) Can we eliminate or control for the effect of spatial autocorrelation during the analysis? To answer the last question, we compared regular regression analysis to a modified t-test developed by Dutilleul for correlation coefficients in the presence of spatial autocorrelation. Replicated surfaces (typically, 1000 of them) were simulated using different spatial parameters, and these surfaces were subjected to different sampling designs and methods of statistical analysis. The simulated surfaces may represent, for example, vegetation response to underlying environmental variation. This allowed us 1) to measure the frequency of type I error (the failure to reject the null hypothesis when in fact there is no effect of the environment on the response variable) and 2) to estimate the power of the different combinations of sampling designs and methods of statistical analysis (power is measured by the rate of rejection of the null hypothesis when an effect of the environment on the response variable has been created). Our results indicate that: 1) Spatial autocorrelation in both the response and environmental variables affects the classical tests of significance of correlation or regression coefficients. Spatial autocorrelation in only one of the two variables does not affect the test of significance. 2) A broad-scale spatial structure present in data has the same effect on the tests as spatial autocorrelation. When such a structure is present in one of the variables and autocorrelation is found in the other, or in both, the tests of significance have inflated rates of type I error. 3) Dutilleul's modified t-test for the correlation coefficient, corrected for spatial autocorrelation, effectively corrects for spatial autocorrelation in the data. It also effectively corrects for the presence of deterministic structures, with or without spatial autocorrelation. The presence of a broad-scale deterministic structure may, in some cases, reduce the power of the modified t-test.
3683117|This paper aims to detect, describe, and interpret the major distributional patterns of species within the genus Salix in Fennoscandia, and to compare these results with a European-scale analysis of Salix distributional patterns. The occurrences of the 24 native Salix species in the 558 50 km grid squares that comprise Fennoscandia, were recorded on the basis of distributional maps in Atlas Florae Europaeae. Distributional patterns were summarised numerically by means of two-way indicator species analysis and detrended correspondence analysis, and were related numerically to 42 climatic, geographical, topographical, geological, land-use and edaphic variables by means of canonical correspondence analysis. The possible importance of the relationships between species distributions and the environment was tested statistically. Regional climate, the most important components being related to summer temperatures, largely accounts for the regional distributional patterns within Salix in Fennoscandia. This result agrees with the European-scale results for Salix, and suggests that these two scales may belong to the same domain. The regionalisation based on Salix is similar to earlier phytogeographical regionalisations of Fennoscandia, suggesting that the climatic factors proposed as being important for Salix distributions may also be important for regional vegetation patterns at the scale of Fennoscandia.
3683531| Many higher taxa exhibit latitudinal gradients in species richness, geographic range size, and body size. However, these variables are often interdependent, such that examinations of univariate or bivariate patterns alone may be misleading. Therefore, I examined latitudinal gradients in, and relationships between, species richness, geographic range size, and body size among 144 species of New World venomous snakes [families Elapidae (coral snakes) and Viperidae (pitvipers)]. Both lineages are monophyletic, collectively span 99 of latitude, and are extremely variable in body size and geographic range sizes. Coral snakes exhibit highest species richness near the equator, while pitviper species richness peaks in Central America. Species - range size distributions were strongly right-skewed for both families. There was little support for Bergmann's rule or Rapoport's rule for snakes of either family, as neither body size nor range size increased significantly with latitude. However, range area and median range latitude were positively correlated above 15 N, indicating a possible "Rapoport effect" at high northern latitudes. Geographic range size was positively associated with body size. Available continental area strongly influenced range size. Comparative (phylogenetically-based) analyses revealed that shared history is a poor predictor of range size variation within clades. Among vipers, trends in geographic range sizes may have been structured more by historical biogeography than by macroecological biotic factors. 
3683563|We examined the relationship between local abundance, habitat position and habitat breadth across bird species in a large Atlantic forest reserve in Brazil. This appears to be the first such study for any rainforest taxon. Habitat position for a species was its mean foraging height, along with the mean scores on three principal habitat axes for census stations at which it was recorded. Habitat breadth was the standard deviation of recorded foraging heights and the standard deviations of "positive" station scores on the habitat axes. We also examined differences in habitat position and breadth between endemic and wide-ranging taxa and amongst dietary groups. Amongst 31 species for which density estimation was possible, there were no correlations between local abundance and breadth of habitat use on any of the habitat axes. Breadth of habitat used did not vary with degree of endemism, but herbivores used a greater breadth of habitats on the axis describing canopy closure than did omnivores. Habitat position did not vary with endemic status, but herbivores preferred higher-biomass habitats than faunivores, and higher foraging heights than either faunivores or omnivores. Local abundance was linked weakly to habitat position with commoner species tending to forage in the lower strata of opencanopied areas. The 31 most commonly recorded species tended to occupy "middle-range" habitat positions, while 28 rarer species occupied habitats toward one or other end of the vegetation axes. These results suggest an association between the local abundance of a species and its habitat position, and especially its preference for common or mid-range habitats, rather than with its ability to utilise a wide range of habitats.
30244515|In contrast to most insect guilds, gall-forming insects are thought to reach highest diversity on sclerophyllous vegetation, such as Neotropical savannas and Mediterranean vegetation types. The water and nutrient stress endured by meristems of canopy trees in tall wet tropical rainforests may cause leaf sclerophylly. Hence, the upper canopies of such ecosystems may represent a suitable habitat for gall-forming insects. At the San Lorenzo Protected Area, Panama, we estimated free-feeding herbivory and gall densities within five sites in 2003 and 2004, by surveying leaves in vertical and horizontal transects. In each sample, we recorded leaf density (mature and young foliage), free-feeding herbivore damage and number of galls, including the presence of live larvae, parasitoids or fungi. We surveyed 43 994 leaves, including 231 plants and 73 tree and liana species. We collected 5014 galls from 17 host-plant species, including 32 gall species of which 59% were restricted to the canopy (overall infestation rates: 2.4% in 2003, 5.5% in 2004). In 2003, 16% of the galls were occupied by live larvae, against 5% in 2004. About 17-20% of leaves surveyed suffered from free-feeding herbivory. Leaf sclerophylly increased significantly with sampling height, while free-feeding herbivory decreased inversely. Conversely, the number of live galls collected in the canopy was 13-16 times higher than in the understorey, a pattern consistent across sites and years. Hence, the probability of gall survivorship increased with increasing leaf sclerophylly as death by fungi, parasitoids or accidental chewing were greater in the understorey. Increasing harsh ecophysiological conditions towards the upper canopy appear favourable to galls-forming population maintenance, in support of the hypothesis of harsh environment. Hence, gall diversity and abundance in the upper canopy of tall tropical forests are perhaps among the highest in the world.
3683737|If an amphibian species has a high degree of site fidelity to its natal pond, subpopulations do not mix, and this may have implications: the subpopulations may get different because of genetic drift, and their status may be affected due to stochastic events. During a four-year period (1994-1997), demographic parameters of a Danish metapopulation consisting of ca 1000 adult Pelobates fuscus in five subpopulations were investigated with the aim of quantifying exchange of individuals in subpopulations and potential differences in demographic parameters, and to clarify population regulating mechanisms. This was done through the use of drift fences surrounding the five breeding ponds, individual marking (PIT-tagging) and weight recordings of the adult females. Metamorphs were recorded when leaving the pond. There was no significant differences between ponds in sex ratio, eggs laid per female, fraction of females breeding and survival of eggs to froglets and of adults. However, there was a significant difference in juvenile survival (52% in one pond and 31% in the others). Sex ratio was 1.70 males:1 female. Mean number of eggs laid per female in the pond was 1762. The number of eggs laid was age-specific, fecundity peaking at age five. Larval survival rate was density dependent: decreasing in an overcompensating fashion at high densities. Exchange rate between ponds was low; 1.09% of the marked and recaptured adult population was found to change pond during the study period. The low exchange rate was confirmed in a simple translocation experiment. This population shows features of a source-sink metapopulation where the identity of the source pond changes due to succession. It is presumably regulated either in the larval stage by density dependent mechanisms (in the subpopulations with many adults) or in the adult stage by density independent mechanisms (in the subpopulations with few adults).
3682805|Two geographically distinct strains of Microtus oeconomus, each consisting of an inbred (sibling mating) and an outbred treatment group, were bred in the laboratory over three generations to determine the effects of inbreeding on reproductive parameters, growth rates of young and paternal behavior. The southern strain (originating from southern Norway) suffered from depressed reproductive rate (litter size and pregnancy rates) most likely due to inbreeding, while no effects of inbreeding were detected in the northern strain (originating from northern Norway). This result questions previous generalizations about inbreeding tolerance at the species level for Microtus. Growth rates and paternal behavior did not differ significantly between inbred and outbred voles in either strain. Inbreeding depression rather than inbreeding avoidance is the most likely mechanism behind the depression in reproductive parameters of inbred southern voles. This is suggested by the decrease in the proportion of breeding pairs with the number of generations of inbreeding, and by the reduced litter size of inbred compared with outbred pairs. Field and laboratory studies have shown that behavioral and demographic traits, possibly related to the degree of inbreeding, differ between the two strains which suggests that inbreeding tolerance might be a life history adaptation.
30243264|Species-area relationships (SARs) are a key tool for understanding patterns of species diversity. A framework for the interpretation of SARs and their prediction under different landscape configurations remains elusive, however. This article addresses one of these configurations: how species' minimum-area requirements affect the shape of island or other isolate species-area curves. We distinguish between two classes of SARs: sample-area curves, compiled entirely within larger contiguous areas, and isolate curves, compiled between isolated areas. We develop this conceptual and graphic model in order to illuminate landscape-scale diversity patterns, to discuss how various landscape and species characteristics affect outcomes, and to investigate the dynamics of local extinction under conditions of habitat fragmentation. Minimum-area effects on actual islands and other isolates predictably cause species-area curves either to be sigmoid in arithmetic space or to be lowered for smaller areas. In order to illustrate the inherent shape of isolate curves, this study fits convex and sigmoid regression models to empirical isolate (island) data sets that cover the small scales expected to include inflection points.
3682789|The relationships between soil nematodes and soil texture, carbon content and depth were assessed in both a cultivated and uncultivated plots. Simple correlation coefficient analyses indicated a negative linear correlation between the plant-parasitic species Helicotylenchus retusus Siddiqui and Brown and soil clay content in the uncultivated site. However, Mantel tests showed this correlation to be spurious and only due to the presence of a common spatial pattern in the variables distribution. Both H. retusus density and soil clay content appeared to be independently driven by a common, unknown cause. The use of suitable statistical methods to analyse spatially dependent variables proved to be particularly fruitful in that they prevent spurious correlations and allow us to test different causal models involving the set of variables at hand.
3682856|The pattern of parasite species diversification and specialization, appreciated by host range, is investigated in fish parasites. We test whether host range is linked with phylogeny at a high taxonomic level, and if there is a relationship between host range and host species diversification. For this purpose we used two sets of data, one on macro-parasites of marine fishes of the Mediterranean Sea and the other on macro-parasites of marine and freshwater fishes of Canada. Similar patterns of host range among parasitic groups were found. Our findings suggest that habitat (marine vs freshwater) and geographic localization (Canada vs Mediterranean region) play little role in determining the observed patterns of host range. We highlight the potential influence of phylogeny (high-taxonomic level) on the level host range in parasites. We find that parasites with free-swimming larval stages and with direct life cycles have a narrower range of host species than do parasites with indirect life cycle, even if we cannot control for phylogenetic effects because of the lack of variation of life cycles within each parasitic group. Finally, a positive relationship was found between the number of known hosts and parasite species diversity in the case of Mediterranean parasite species. The relationship between host range and species diversification should be related to the mechanism of cospeciation.
3683646|In response to the suggestion that the latitudinal gradient in species richness is the result of stochastic processes of species distributions, we created a computer simulation program that enabled us to study random species distributions over irregularly shaped areas. Our model could not explain latitudinal variation in species richness of New World mammals and created species richness patterns that differed dramatically from previous stochastic models. The interplay of speciation and species migration in our simulation generated the highest species richness in the middle of a landmass, not in the middle of its latitudinal stretch as was found in previous one-dimensional models. The discrepancy between the results of this study and previous empirical studies suggests that the effect of randomness in species-richness distribution is on a continental scale restricted by other, dominant determinants that limit the effect of chance.
30243230|Historical ecology can be used to model past environments and identify reference conditions for restoration efforts. The primary burrowing crayfish Distocambarus crockeri exhibits a high degree of habitat specialization and is largely limited to open canopied terrestrial habitats maintained along roadsides, utility rights-of-way, and agricultural field edges within a portion of the South Carolina piedmont, USA. Crayfish abundance, vegetation structure, and negative binomial regression were used to model the habitat of D. crockeri. Modeling indicated that within a community-defined landscape patch context, D. crockeri was a prairie specialist. Historical descriptions of areas within the species' range indicated that prairie-like habitats (piedmont prairies) were a regular component of the landscape. The congruence between habitat models and historical data indicate that prairie habitat was a natural component of the historic piedmont landscape and that the habitat specificity of D. crockeri contained spatial information about this lost landscape component.
30243255|This study aims to assess the degree of regularity in the effect of patch size and patch shape on plant species richness across a macroscale region, and to evaluate the implications for nature conservation. Our study area covers south-eastern Norway and contains 16 agricultural landscapes with 2162 patches. To analyse regularity a local linear mixed model (LLMM) was applied. This procedure estimates the richness trends due to shared effects of size and shape, and simultaneously provides the landscape-specific random effect. The latter is a direct estimate of the degree of irregularity between the landscapes, conditioned on specific values of size and shape. The results show a positive interaction between the shape and size of patches, which is repeated for all landscapes. The shape of the patches produces more regular patterns in species richness than the size of patches. This we attribute to effects of dispersal and distance to neighbouring patches of different environmentally conditioned species pools. Large and complex patches have shorter average distance to neighbouring patches (of different types) than large simple-shaped (circular) patches have. We attribute the higher species richness of the former, given a similar area, to a higher number of species dispersed from the outside into the more complex plot. For small patches, however, the distance to the edge is short relative to normal dispersal distances, for patches of all shapes. This explains why the positive effect of shape complexity on species richness is stronger for large patches. This interpretation is supported by a strong spatial correlation conditioned on the most complex patches. Theories of dynamics in biodiversity in patchy landscapes must consider shape as a regulator at the same level as size, and both shape and size of patches should be simultaneously taken into account for management planning.
3682774|We studied the effects of epiphytic and endophytic phyllosphere fungi and pathogenic birch rust fungus infection of mountain birch Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii trees on the larval performance of leaf beetle Phratora polaris. We assessed the effects of epiphytic fungi by growing larvae on leaves from trees with manipulated fungal densities. We also monitored larval performance and endophytic fungal densities among tree groups classified by herbivory or rust fungus densities. The differences in experimentally manipulated epiphytic fungal densities did not affect larval relative growth rates (RGR) of the species; instead we found significant tree effects. Phratora polaris RGR was higher on trees with high level of herbivory than on trees with low herbivory, nevertheless, endophyte densities between these groupings did not differ. In the rust fungus experiment, P. polaris performance was lowest on trees with low infection compared to no and high infection trees. We also did not find correlations among tree-specific endophyte densities and P. polaris performance on high and low herbivory trees and trees classified by rust fungus infection. Although antagonism among fungi and induction of tree defences cannot be excluded, we suggest that epiphytic and endophytic fungi of mountain birch have negligible effects on P. polaris larval performance under natural conditions, probably due to mountain birch variability and a loose ecological connection between mountain birch and its epi- and endophytes. Mountain birch and pathogenic birch rust have a more tightly linked relationship, which may also affect insect herbivores. Still, leaf properties may play an important role and the effects will depend on the relative timing of the rust infection, herbivore development and changes in leaf quality.
3683303|Fish assemblages in the upper Red River system of southwestern Oklahoma (USA) were predictable along measured environmental gradients. Conductivity was the most important variable predicting structure of fish assemblages, followed by stream size, alkalinity, woody debris, and water clarity. Classification of abundance data identified four groups each of species and sites. Species groups were separated on a habitat template, indicating similar environmental responses within groups. However, site groups showed considerable overlap on the template. Correlations among species' environmental preferences were significantly associated with correlations of species' abundances. Likewise, site correlations on the basis of measured environmental variables and on the basis of species' abundances were significantly similar. We tested abundance and distribution data for agreement with the hierarchical model of Kolasa. Several testable predictions of the model described our data well: specialist species outnumbered generalist species and were less abundant, on average, than generalist species. Average abundance of species was highly correlated with their ecological ranges and species were clumped along both ecological range and abundance axes.
30244582|Climate is often singled out as the primary range limiting factor at large scales, while other environmental factors, notably soil, are thought to predominate at smaller scales. However, the postglacial migrational lag hypothesis controversially suggests that many species are strongly dispersal-limited and still expanding from their ice age refugia. We investigated the importance of postglacial migrational lag, climate, and soil as range determinants for 47 widespread forest plant species across nemoral Europe (47.0-60.0N, west of 24.0E) using regression modeling, information-theoretic model selection, multi-model inference, and variation partitioning. Migrational lag was represented by a measure of accessibility to recolonization from ice age refugia. Twelve species were largely ubiquitous and not analyzed further. For the remaining species, there was strong support for climate, soil, and accessibility to postglacial recolonization. Accessibility accounted for a small to moderate amount of variation, but its model-averaged regression coefficient was stronger than those for climate or soil for 11 species and the second or third strongest coefficient for an additional 10 species. The resulting odds ratios were greater than one for 33 out of 35 species, i.e. adjusted for climate and soil, prevalence for the far majority of the 35 non-ubiquitous species increased with increasing accessibility. There were no differences among growth forms in the importance of accessibility. In contrast, compared to non-boreal species, accessibility had little importance for species with wide boreal distributions, as expected from their more widespread, northern glacial distributions. In conclusion, even the ranges of many widespread forest plant species are probably still moderately to strongly limited by postglacial migrational lag. Therefore, although species ranges are also strongly influenced by climate, we cannot expect most forest plant species to closely track the expected 21st century climatic changes.
3683833|There is increasing attention being given to the importance of colonization traits like seed number and seed size for species coexistence and distribution in plant communities. In this study a null-model analyses of species co-occurrence and trait dispersion was performed to evaluate the importance of seed size and seed number for coexistence in a Swedish semi-natural grassland. Species abundance was inventoried in two grids based on quadrats differing in size (<tex-math>$1\ {\rm dm}^{2}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$25\ {\rm dm}^{2}$</tex-math>). For both grids Monte Carlo simulations showed that species (in general) co-occurred more often than expected from a null model. Both seed size and seed number were underdispersed, species possessing similar seed traits tended to co-occur more often than expected from a random model. Species packing in a niche space based on seed number and seed size was found to be positively correlated to species richness. In species-rich sites species were more densely packed. The results contradict predictions from classical competition theories concerning species coexistence, and suggest that seed traits are important for species coexistence.
3683279|Population dynamics of grasshoppers differing in phenology were analysed on a xerothermic meadow in central Germany. The study was based on standardized annual sweep net samples in relation to meteorological factors (mean and maximum temperature, rainfall, sunshine) from May through September of current and previous year, respectively. Three grasshopper species, the early hatching Euthystira brachyptera, the phenologically intervening Stenobothrus lineatus, and the late hatching Gomphocerus rufus, were investigated over ten years during three periods: 1971-74, 1983-85, 1987-89. By means of stepwise linear regression and a cross-validation procedure a subset of meteorological parameters was extracted which best described the field sampling data of the grasshoppers. This subset of variables was then used in multiple linear regression analyses in order to model the long-term population dynamics of the grasshoppers from 1971 to 1990. The selected variables for each species revealed different influences of meteorological parameter combinations reflecting the different phenologies. The dynamics of the three gomphocerine species modelled for 20 yr (1971-1990) differed both with maxima and minima in different years and in the fluctuation factors from 29 (E. brachyptera) to 155 (S. lineatus). In comparison with fluctuation trends in populations of other sites within the region some species-specific and habitat-specific population dynamics must be assumed. There were no significant correlations between annual aridity (precipitation-temperature)-indices and densities of the three populations studied.
3683177|We describe a statistical method appropriate for the analysis of spatial autocorrelation in data varying in time as well as space. In particular, the technique was developed to address the issue of geographic synchrony in ecological variables that may change markedly from year to year such as population density of animals or seed production of trees. The method yields "modified correlograms" that test for significant autocorrelation between sites located within any given range of distances apart. This technique facilitates detecting and understanding spatial processes in a variety of ecological phenomena, including testing the plausibility of causational hypotheses using cross-correlational analyses. Several examples are discussed, including population densities of squirrels in Finland, winter densities of two hawk species in California, and acorn production and radial growth by individual blue oak Quercus douglasii trees in central coastal California.
3683858|The herbivore load (abundance and species richness of herbivores) on alien plants is supposed to be one of the keys to understand the invasiveness of species. We investigate the phytophagous insect communities on cabbage plants (Brassicaceae) in Europe. We compare the communities of endophagous and ectophagous insects as well as of Coleoptera and Lepidoptera on native and alien cabbage plant species. Contrary to many other reports, we found no differences in the herbivore load between native and alien hosts. The majority of insect species attacked alien as well as native hosts. Across insect species, there was no difference in the patterns of host range on native and on alien hosts. Likewise the similarity of insect communities across pairs of host species was not different between natives and aliens. We conclude that the general similarity in the community patterns between native and alien cabbage plant species are due to the chemical characteristics of this plant family. All cabbage plants share glucosinolates. This may facilitate host switches from natives to aliens. Hence the presence of native congeners may influence invasiveness of alien plants.
3683131| Local and regional distributions of Thymus serpyllum, in the southeastern part of Sweden, were examined by combining experimental studies of recruitment limitation and germination, and descriptive studies of distribution range in relation to habitat and management history. The spatial pattern at a regional scale in the county of Sdermanland was examined in relation to semi-natural pastures and graves from the Iron Age. The distribution of T. serpyllum was also examined in two parishes. Thymus serpyllum was exclusively found in managed, unfertilized areas, mainly semi-natural pastures and to some extent in road verges, and almost always in dry parts. Populations of T. serpyllum were found in 32 of the 42 pastures that contained Iron Age graves, but only in 5 of 42 pastures without graves. The distribution of T. serpyllum was also more or less congruent with the distribution of Iron Age graves, in both parishes. The seed sowing experiment showed that the germination rate, winter survival and recruitment were significantly higher in disturbed (removal of ground cover) plots, for both dry and mesic vegetation. Since the establishment of T. serpyllum occurred both in dry and mesic parts of semi-natural pastures, whereas T. serpyllum is confined to dry parts, the local limitation of distribution may be due to poor dispersal or due to effects acting on later life cycle stages. The results showed that the regional distribution of T. serpyllum is likely to be dispersal limited - recruitment after seed sowing was equally good at sites with or without established populations. Seeds survived and germinated after heat treatment, with temperatures at 60C, 80C and 100C, but germination rates were not higher than in the control. The results of this study indicate that the distribution of T. serpyllum is dependent on human activities, both for dispersal and for the maintenance of established populations. Long, continuous management by grazing is obviously important for the maintenance of these populations. The association with Iron Age graves may reflect either long continuity, or accidental or intentional dispersal by humans. 
30243221|Several studies on endozoochory have established large herbivores as important for seed dispersal, yet no studies have evaluated how endozoochory is dependent on ecological scale and context. Here we address effects of reindeer density on endozoochory in a hierarchical, multi-scale study, encompassing several ecological contexts. We found reindeer density effects on endozoochory to vary with spatial scale. Higher reindeer densities at the level of landscape areas, as indexed through faeces abundance, were related to both less species and lower abundance of emerging plants from faeces. In contrast, there was no effect of higher reindeer densities at the level of herding districts (i.e. large scale assemblages of landscapes). Lack of consistency between scales reflects ecological hierarchy, indicating that reindeer density effects on endozoochory best matches at the scale of landscapes. Pasture plant composition was only partly an important ecological factor. That is, ericoid species, the dominating plants in the pastures, were also the most abundant seed plants emerging from the faeces. However, only a small proportion of herbaceous seed plant species found in the pastures were emerging from the faeces, and their emergences were positively related to the site fertility and altitude of the pasture. Studies addressing endozoochory of ruminants are typically concerned with seed plants. In this study we found indications of that also diaspores of ferns survive the digestive tract of large herbivores. Vascular spore plants were even more abundant in the faeces than were vascular seed plants. Results from this study demonstrate that reindeer may counteract a potentially negative impact on seed limitation from their grazing by returning viable seeds in their faeces. However, in Finnmark, northern Norway, this effect is only marginal, relates only to a very few species and individuals and shows ecological scale and context dependence.
30244633|Studies of seedling population dynamics often focus on survival because it provides an integrated measure of seedling performance. However, this approach involves a substantial loss of information because survival is the net result of a wide range of mechanisms. The present study overcomes these shortcomings by investigating spatial and temporal patterns in the causes of plant mortality in a population of Helianthemum squamatum seedlings. We use new point pattern analyses based on K functions combined with a new null model ("independent labeling"). A total of 871 seedlings of H. squamatum were mapped and regularly monitored over an 18-month period. More than 60% of seedlings died during this period. Causes of mortality were spatially structured, and these structures shifted through time. Small differences in either the time of emergence or the environment surrounding H. squamatum seedlings had profound influences on their fate. Seedlings emerging late in the season under the canopy of adult plants died from drought more often than expected, whereas those emerging earlier in the same microsite survived more than expected. The identity of neighbors also affected the spatio-temporal dynamics of mortality causes. Our results show that seedling-adult interactions cannot be easily predicted from simple models, and that the time of seedling emergence, its age and the identity of its neighbors determine the sign and the spatial scale of these interactions. The new methods introduced in this article open an avenue for the detailed analyses of the spatio-temporal dynamics of plant mortality and can help to disentangle the complexity of biotic interactions along environmental severity gradients.
3683099|Foraging of Eurasian lynxes Lynx lynx was studied with telemetry and snow tracking in central Norway. In all habitats and at all seasons, medium-sized ungulates (roe deer Capreolus capreolus, reindeer Rangifer tarandus and domestic sheep Ovis aries) dominated the diet (81% of ingested biomass estimated from faeces). Mountain hares Lepus timidus and galliform birds comprised the remainder of the diet (15% and 3%, respectively). Lynxes with different life history status did not differ in prey choice, but adult males utilised carcasses of ungulate prey considerably less (16% of the edible parts) than did females with offspring (80%) and subadults (58%). Forest habitats in lowlands and adjacent to cultivated fields were the most favourable foraging habitats (indexed as the prey encounter rate per km lynx track) primarily owing to the presence of roe deer. Two family groups tracked in winter killed 0.2 ungulate per day. The importance of agricultural land as a foraging habitat and the dominance of livestock in the diet in remoter areas indicate that the lynx has responded to agriculture and reindeer husbandry during the past century by switching from small game to ungulates.
30244659|Northeast (NE) China covers three climatic zones and contains all the major forest types of NE Asia. We sampled 108 forest plots in six nature reserves across NE China to examine the influence of climate and local factors (canopy seasonality, successional stage, topography and forest structure) on geographic patterns of plant richness. We analyzed the relative effects of different factors at two spatial scales: the regional scale (across both latitude and altitude) and the local scale (along the altitudinal gradient within site). Our results showed that the relative importance of climate vs local factors differed remarkably depending on scale and functional group. While total and tree species richness were mainly limited by climate, herb and shrub richness was more related to local factors (especially at the local scale). In the climatic factors, heat sum was the major correlate of tree, shrub and total species richness, while herb richness was more associated with winter coldness. Precipitation was not a limiting factor for forest plant richness in NE China. Climate accounted for 34-76% of variation in richness at the regional scale, but explained only 0-44% at the local scale. Among the local factors, shrub species richness was sensitive to seasonal canopy openness, with higher richness in deciduous forests than in the evergreen needle-leaf forest. On the other hand, herb richness was sensitive to forest successional stage, with higher richness in middle- successional forests than in the early and late-sucessional forests. Local topography (aspect and position on slope) and forest structure (tree density) also showed remarkable influence on species richness. Our results suggest the importance of including local factors when examining large scale diversity gradient (especially for understory species), and the necessity of comparing diversity patterns among functional groups at different spatial scales.
3683189| The growth rates of two size classes of Nephelopsis obscura, a freshwater predatory leech, were determined at five different dissolved oxygen regimes (three constant: 10%, 100%, 300%; and two diel cyclical: 10-100% and 100-300%) at 15C. Both small and large N. obscura showed highest growth rates in the diel 100-300% regime and the lowest in the constant 10% or diel 10-100% regimes. These differences in growth rate affect the predicted time to reach the minimum size for reproduction, e.g. 42.8 d in constant 10% and 31.5 d in diel 100-300% regimes for small and 67.9 d and 8.8 d respectively for large N. obscura. These differences determine whether individuals surviving winter reach maturity and produce cocoons in the spring or the autumn and whether individuals hatched in the spring can reach mature size the same summer. 
3683205| Terrestrial organisms of the Arctic are faced with strong climatic fluctuations. Predictable seasonality with cold/long winters and short/cool summers are combined with unpredictable between and within year variation. This indicates that various selection pressures act on the reproductive strategies of the populations. The arctic collembolan Hypogastrura tullbergi reproduces in a short period following snow melt. Hatching occurs in late summer, the animals grow to adult size within their second summer and reproduce for the first time in the beginning of their third summer. We performed several experiments to determine the reproductive investment and proximate mechanism that regulate timing and duration of reproduction. We found that H. tullbergi entered a reproductive diapause when reared at constant temperature, a diapause that was terminated by a cold exposure (winter). Surprisingly, cold exposure of small juveniles may also prevent development of a reproductive diapause in adults. Thus, the life-cycle normally spanning 2 yr can potentially be reduced to one year if the overwintering juveniles reach maturity before the end of the reproductive period in the field. After termination of the diapause, the animals reproduced up to 3 times during a period of 6 weeks at 15C. This reproductive period was considerably longer (measured in degree days) than the one observed in the field. Our results suggested that temperature quiescence, i.e. the inability to reproduce under a certain temperature threshold, may adjust the termination of the reproductive period with current temperature before a new diapause occurs in late summer. The cost of reproduction was low and suggests that it can be adaptive to spread reproduction over more than one year. The results are discussed in relation to the arctic climate and strategies favoured by unpredictable and predictable (seasonal) variations in the environment. The present study forms part of a larger investigation on population dynamics and life history strategies of H. tullbergi from the Arctic. 
3682764|Herbivory of Scirpus litoralis and S. maritimus tubers by wintering greylag geese, Anser anser, was studied at the marshes of the Guadalquivir in southwestern Spain. Exclosures were constructed to compare plant growth in grazed and ungrazed sites. Scirpus litoralis tubers are clustered, with clusters being interconnected by rhizomes. Scirpus maritimus tubers develop individually, and are connected by rhizomes. The geese forage on individual S. maritimus tubers but take entire clusters of S. litoralis tubers, from which only one tuber is normally consumed. The reproductive mode of S. maritimus, the main food plant of the wintering geese, was dependent on tuber size. The proportion of tubers whose shoots bear inflorescences decreases with increasing tuber size, and the larger tubers reproduce vegetatively. The geese feed on the smaller S. maritimus tubers and the smaller S. litoralis clusters. Reasons for this preference may be that these tubers and clusters are easier to extract and also that small tubers require less time to break down in the gizzard. The number of shoots of S. litoralis and S. maritimus in grazed sites was 88% and 32%, respectively, compared with that in ungrazed sites. Nevertheless this difference reflects in part a decrease of S. litoralis inside some exclosures during a five years period. The length of shoots of both species was shorter in grazed than in ungrazed sites. The size-related selection of tubers by geese may have a profound effect on the structure and dynamics of these plants populations, and the trade-off between sexual and asexual reproduction. However, due to the clonal nature of the plants, interpretation of plant-goose interactions from an evolutionary perspective is difficult because of the elusive unit of selection involved.
3683317| Seed germination, growth and flowering of the arctic-alpine annual Koenigia islandica were studied in controlled environment. Intact (unabraded) seeds germinated poorely at temperatures up to 18C, with an optimum at 24C (89% in 10 d). Scarified seeds germinated rapidly, and reached 100% germination in 3 d at 21C, but no > 40% germination occurred at 9 and 12C. The seeds had no light requirement for germination, nor did fluctuating temperatures improve germination. Dry matter production was optimal at 12C in both short day (SD) and long day (LD) conditions, but was markedly higher in LD than in SD at identical fluences at all temperatures except 21C where the plants showed symptoms of severe heat stress. The temperature compensation point for net productivity was estimated to 24C, and negative carbon balance at higher temperatures might be an important physiological mechanism limiting the distribution of K. islandica in Scandinavia. Flowering was extremely rapid and independent of daylength, even in a high-arctic population from 79N. In full summer daylight anthesis was reached 24 d after germination and seeds ripened after 36 d at 15C. Days to anthesis varied little across the temperature range from 6 to 21C, giving a linear decrease in the heat-sum requirement for the attainment of flowering with decreasing temperature. It is concluded that conservative seed germination strategy, tininess and rapid development, low temperature optima for growth and reproduction, and daylength indifference of flowering are important adaptations for success of an annual plant in high-arctic and high-alpine environments. Daylength neutrality has facilitated the wide-latitudinal distribution of K. islandica, including the penetration of the species to the southern hemisphere. 
3682850|The introduced amphipod crustaceans Gammarus pulex and G. tigrinus are displacing the native G. duebeni celticus in a number of freshwater sites in Northern Ireland. We investigated parasite and epibiont infection in populations in the River Lagan and Lough Neagh where both native and invading species occur. Prevalence of the four parasites and epibionts observed was higher in the native G. d. celticus than in the invading amphipods at both field sites. In Lough Neagh, G. d. celticus individuals suffered higher burdens of the rotifer Embata parasitica and the protozoan Epistylis in comparison with the invading species. These patterns may reflect host specificity by the parasites or may result from different susceptibilities of the native and invading host species. We consider the influence of parasitism on host invasions and resulting species distributions.
3683867|The SADIE methodology has recently been developed to quantify spatial patterns, particularly in determining the randomness of observed patterns, estimating patches and gaps, and quantifying correlation between species. We used artificially generated data sets to investigate the relationship of the SADIE pattern and association statistics with patch number and spatial positions of the patches. Results showed that SADIE statistics are critically dependent on the absolute positions of quadrat counts, and not just on their relative positions. In particular, degree of patchiness increased as the patch was displaced away from the centre. Therefore, the dependence of SADIE statistics on absolute sampling positions should be taken into consideration when using and interpreting SADIE-based results.
3683091|We studied establishment in summer territories by first-year nuthatches Sitta europaea both in a large forest and in a set of small and isolated forest fragments (2 yr in each area). In the large forest, vacant territories were rapidly taken up by newly formed pairs of juveniles. In the fragments, settlers arrived at a slower rate, more of them remained unpaired, and more territories remained vacant at the end of the dispersal period. Furthermore, territories were taken up in a highly predictable order related to territory quality in the large forest, but not so in the fragments. We suggest that dispersal is more costly in a highly fragmented habitat, reducing the number of settlers at the population level, and reducing opportunities for pair formation and habitat selection at the individual level.
30244697|Populations at range margins may be genetically different from more central ones for a number of mutually non-exclusive reasons. Specific selection pressures may operate in environments that are more marginal for the species. Genetic drift may also have a strong effect in these populations if they are small, isolated and/or have experienced significant bottlenecks during the colonisation phase. The question if peripheral populations are special, and if yes then how and why, is of obvious relevance for speciation theory, as well as for conservation biology. To evaluate the uniqueness of populations at range margins and the influence of gene flow and selection, we performed a morphometric study of two grassland butterfly species: Coenonympha arcania and C. hero (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). The samples were collected from Swedish populations that are peripheral and isolated from the main area of the species distributions and from populations in the Baltic states that are peripheral but connected to the main area of the species distributions. These samples were compared to those from central parts of the species distributions. The isolated populations in both species differed consistently from both peripheral and central populations in their wing size and shape. We interpret this as a result of selection caused by differences in population structure in these isolated locations, presumably favoring different dispersal propensity of these butterflies. Alternative explanations based on colonisation history, latitudinal effects, inbreeding or phenotypic plasticity appear less plausible. As a contrast, the much weaker and seemingly random among-region differences in wing patterns are more likely to be ascribed to weaker selection pressures allowing genetic drift to be influential. In conclusion, both morphological data and results from neutral genetic markers in earlier studies of the same system provide congruent evidence of both adaptation and genetic drift in the isolated Swedish populations of both species.
3682945|The aim with this study was to investigate whether abundance of farmland birds on fields at forest edges were associated with (i) type of field (young set-aside vs arable fields), (ii) the length and structure of the field-forest edge zone, and/or (iii) with residual habitats such as habitat islands, ditches, roads etc. Twenty-eight farmland bird species (all nesting and/or foraging on open fields) were censused during the breeding season on 48 plots (open fields with adjoining forest edges) in the central parts of Sweden, covering a total area of 595 ha. Skylark Alauda arvensis, linnet Carduelis cannabina, whitethroat Sylvia communis and whinchat Saxicola rubetra were found in significantly higher numbers in set-aside-plots than cereal ones. However, the most important factor explaining variation in the abundance of most species was the structure of the field-forest ecotone, with the length of shrubby southern deciduous forest edges being the most important factor in 7 of the species. Mixed forest edges seemed to be of some importance for the abundance of 3 species, while associations between abundance and length of the other deciduous and coniferous field-forest ecotones only were significant for one species each. Skylarks, white wagtails Motacilla alba and whinchats were positively associated to ditches and yellowhammers Emberiza citrinella and linnets were significantly associated to habitat islands. The observed preferences for set-asides and shrubby field forest edges are suggested to be results of reduced predation risk and increased food abundance.
30243126|Dispersal and establishment limitations have been proposed as important mechanisms that control vegetation colonization processes. While many studies have emphasized the role of dispersal limitation in the dynamics of plant communities, little is known about the spatial and temporal scales at which dispersal limitation affects plant population dynamics. In this study we investigate spatial and temporal scales of dispersal limitation in a system of semi-arid Mediterranean old-fields recolonized by the dominating dwarf shrub Sarcopoterium spinosum (Rosaceae). Our analysis was based on a combination of two complementary approaches: 1) age analysis of S. spinosum shrubs growing at different distances from source populations, and 2) a corresponding analysis of changes in vegetation cover since recolonization onset (ca 55 yr ago), based on information obtained from historical aerial-photographs. Shrubs sampled in plots near the source populations were similar in their age distribution to the source populations, but significantly different from shrubs sampled far from the source populations. Increasing distance from source populations was associated with a decrease in median age of the shrubs, and in the density and relative frequency of adult shrubs (> 15 yr). These patterns of changes in age structure occurred over distances of several tenths of meters. Young age groups (< 5 yr) were scarcely represented in all plots, suggesting that establishment limitation was also important in determining recolonization rates. Analysis of the aerial photographs supported the results of the age analysis, showing evidence for both distance effect and establishment limitation. We conclude that dispersal limitation may have a long-term impact on vegetation patterns, even at small spatial scales, and that dispersal limitation interacts with establishment limitation in determining recolonization processes.
30244591|Synchrony in ecological variables over wide geographic areas suggests that large-scale environmental factors drive the structure and function of ecosystems and override more local-scale environmental variation. Described also as coherence, this phenomenon has been documented broadly in the ecological literature and has recently received increasing attention as scientists attempt to quantify the impacts of global changes on organisms and their habitats. Using a mesic grassland site in North America, we assessed coherence in ecosystem function by quantifying similarity in aboveground net primary production (ANPP) dynamics in 48 permanent sampling locations (PSLs) over a 16-yr period. Our primary objective was to characterize coherence across a broad geographic region (with similar ecosystem structure and function), and we hypothesized that precipitation and a similar fire frequency would strengthen coherence between PSLs. All 48 PSLs at our site (Konza Prairie Biological Station, Manhattan, KS, USA; KPBS) were exposed to a similar regional driver of ANPP (precipitation); however, local drivers (including differences in fire frequency and soil depth at different topographic positions) varied strongly among individual PSLs. For the purpose of this assessment, the watershed-level experimental design of KPBS was considered a model, which represented different fire management strategies across the Great Plains Region. Our analyses revealed a site-level (KPBS) coherence in ANPP dynamics of 0.53 for the period of 1984-1999. Annual fire enhanced coherence among PSLs to 0.76, whereas less frequent fire (fire exclusion or a 4-yr fire return interval) failed to further increase coherence beyond that of the KPBS site level. Soil depth also strongly influenced coherence among PSLs with shallow soils at upland sites showing strong coherence across fire regimes and annually burned uplands closely linked to annual precipitation dynamics. The lack of coherence in ecosystem function in PSLs with deep soils and low fire frequencies suggests that conservation and management efforts will need to be more location specific in such areas where biotic interactions may be more important than regional abiotic drivers.
3683243|We captured desert arthropods from sand and gravel substrates at five coastal or inland locations in Abu Dhabi around the new moon once every 28 days for two years. Three replicated lines of 20 unbaited pitfall traps were used from two hours before dusk until two hours after dawn. We examined the data for spatial and temporal variation, especially in relation to climate. Around 53 400 arthropods were caught, 97.3% being insects and the rest arachnids. Ants were most common (75.4%), followed by the Thysanura (12%), Coleoptera (8.4%), Araneae (1.5%) and Scorpiones (1.1%). Catches differed significantly among sites, substrates and time of year. In general, the number of arthropods caught matched the annual temperature cycle. Peak catches also followed the annual rains. Summer catches were higher at coastal than inland sites. Fewer arthropods were caught at gravel sites than on sand, but the number of taxa did not differ consistently between substrates. Community composition was generally less similar among sites than between substrates although this was not always the case. Inland communities had fewer taxa and generally fewer individuals than those near the coast. Isoptera, Tettigoniidae and Carabidae occurred less frequently (if at all) inland. We suggest that the higher humidity at sites near the coast allows more taxa to occur and to remain active during the extreme heat of summer. Further into the Empty Quarter we would expect a decline in the number of taxa and in the total catch.
3683373|Adult aquatic insects emerging from streams are a fundamental resource sustaining riparian bird communities in broad-leaved deciduous forests. We investigated how stream geomorphology affects the aquatic insect flux and insectivorous bird abundance in 26 riparian-forest plots during spring season in northern Japan. Lateral dispersal of emergent aquatic insects into the riparian forest exponentially decreased with distance from the stream. Similar to aquatic insect distribution, flycatchers and gleaners concentrated their foraging attacks around the stream channel, preying intensively upon emergent aquatic insects. In contrast, bark probers consumed fewer emergent aquatic insects. The abundance of flycatchers and gleaners was closely related to stream geomorphology, whereas that of bark probers was associated with snag density in the study plots. A path analysis showed that the study plots with longer stream channels had greater aquatic insect abundance. This can be interpreted as a consequence of the increased amount of both stream edge and stream surface, where emergent aquatic insects readily penetrate. The increased flux of aquatic insects by stream meanders elevated gleaner abundance in the study plots. In addition, their abundance was directly affected by stream length per se. On the other hand, flycatcher abundance was only directly affected by stream length. Flycatchers, which mainly consumed emergent aquatic insects in the air, may have increased in response to the increase in suitable foraging sites (i.e., open spaces adjacent to perches) accompanying longer stream channels. Although the causal links affecting bird abundance differed among guilds, meandering streams apparently support abundant insectivorous birds in riparian forests. Therefore, to conserve riparian bird communities, it will be necessary to maintain the functions of stream geomorphology that affect the magnitude of energy transfer across the forest-stream interface.
3683679|Livestock grazing is often thought to enhance native plant species co-existence in remnant grasslands but may also favour exotic invaders. Recommendations for appropriate grazing strategies are needed, for which an understanding of the response of plant species is necessary. We explored the response of plant species and plant functional groups to grazing in temperate grassland of the Monaro Tablelands of south-east Australia by comparing species abundance in adjacent areas that differed in livestock grazing regime (minimal, infrequent and frequent). We also examined whether species with similar responses to grazing share certain traits and consider whether these traits might provide a useful method of assessing grazing impact. At the scale measured <tex-math>$(0.25\ {\rm m}^{2})$</tex-math>, an infrequent grazing regime maximised plant species co-existence in these grasslands due to widespread invasion by exotic plant species at infrequent grazing intensity. Many native species declined in abundance when grazing frequency increased from minimal to infrequent. Annuals invaded under infrequent grazing while perennials declined most strongly under high frequency grazing. Low levels of grazing apparently reduce cover and create sites suitable for seed recruitment whereas more frequent grazing reduces the persistence of perennials. While there was a tendency for native species to be more susceptible to grazing impact than exotics, plant traits, in particular longevity (perennial, annual) provided a better prediction of the response of plants to grazing. Although a few native plant species persisted at high grazing frequency, even infrequent livestock grazing may not be appropriate for the conservation of many native perennial grassland species. Targeted reductions in grazing frequency may be necessary to enable the long-term coexistence of grazing susceptible species.
3682922| This study presents a quantitative partitioning of the total variance in the patterns of occurrence of 231 vascular plant taxa in 362 1  1 km grids in the Kevo Nature Reserve into four independent components: purely spatial variation, spatially structured environmental variation, non-spatial environmental variation, and unexplained variation. This partitioning is done with (partial) constrained ordinations (canonical correspondence analysis) and associated Monte Carlo permutation tests. The numerical results suggest that most of the biological variance captured by the external explanatory variables is related to 'local' meso-scale environmental factors, as 12.6% of the variation in the species data is explained solely by the environmental variables. Part of the variance (6%) represents a spatially covarying environmental component, but only a very small part, ca 2%, is related to purely spatial variation. The amount of unexplained variation is very high (>75%). The results are compared and discussed in relation to the relative amounts of these four variance components at broader- and finer-scales and to the concepts of domains and transition zones of scales in biological patterning. 
30243243|Various models of the species-abundance distribution (SAD) have been proposed to fit empirically derived data however there is no general consensus as to which model provides the best fit. Further, the zero-sum multinomial SAD model (ZSM) was proposed as a metacommunity model, yet it has not previously been fitted at the metacommunity scale. We note that SAD models based on compound lognormal distributions (such as the Poisson-lognormal, PLN, and the negative binomial-lognormal models, NBLN) can also be thought of as metacommunity models, and we compare these with the ZSM when fitted as metacommunity models to SADs of related communities. We collected five datasets in the Sydney Basin, eastern Australia, representing five different types of subtropical/temperate plant communities ranging from closed warm-temperate rainforest to open wet sclerophyll forest to dry sclerophyll woodland. For each type of plant community, five local communities were identified across the Sydney Basin, and SAD data collected in five randomly placed 0.2-ha quadrats at each local community. Analysis was performed at two levels: all abundance data from each local community were pooled across each metacommunity and analysed as a single pooled community; and a metacommunity model was fitted to all five local communities of a community type, simultaneously. For the pooled data, we considered the negative-binomial (NB) and the log-series (LS) models in addition to ZSM, PLN and NBLN. All five models performed similarly, however the LS had a better fit to three pooled communities and the ZSM and PLN to the remaining two communities. By contrast, the ZSM performed statistically better against the PLN and NBLN when considered as a metacommunity model. We conclude that the ZSM generally provides a more reliable null model for metacommunity abundance data than the lognormal model.
3683722|It has been suggested previously that the presence and abundance of indigenous species have a marked influence on the likelihood of invasion of a community. It has also been suggested that such biotic resistance has a negligible influence on the outcome of an invasion, but that the abiotic characteristics of the environment being invaded are more important. The latter has been claimed to be especially important on the islands of the Southern Ocean. In order to test these competing hypotheses we examined the distribution and abundance of indigenous and introduced springtails across 13 habitats, which differ considerably in the properties of their soils, and soil temperature, on the eastern quarter of sub-Antarctic Marion Island. There was no evidence of negative abundance covariation or species associations within habitats, nor were there significant relationships between species richness or abundance of the indigenous as opposed to the introduced collembolans across habitats. Interspecific interactions thus seem to have played no readily identifiable role in the outcome of invasions by Collembola on Marion Island. In contrast, the indigenous and introduced species responded very differently to abiotic variables. The indigenous Collembola prefer drier, more mineral soils with a low organic carbon content, and species richness tends to be highest in cold, fellfield areas. On the other hand, the introduced springtails prefer moist, warm sites, with organically enriched soils. Introduced species richness was negligible in cold, fellfield areas. Disturbance also appeared to influence positively the species richness and abundance of introduced species at a site. These results provide independent support for the idea that abiotic factors, especially temperature, significantly influence the likelihood of biological invasions on Southern Ocean islands. They also suggest that predicting the outcome of climate change on community structure in this region is likely to be problematic, especially in the case of the Collembola.
3683237|Nest predation rates are believed to be higher in tropical than in temperate forests. This notion is central in explaining different life history traits of tropical and temperate birds, but it is not known whether this assertion is true for all nest sites, such as ground and shrub nests, and at different distances from forest edge. I reviewed 22 studies using artificial nest experiments which concurrently contrasted predation rates of ground and shrub nests in temperate and tropical forests and found, contrary to the current dogma, no overall difference in predation rates between regions. However, there was a significant interaction between region and nest site. Ground nest predation rates were significantly higher in the tropical region, while predation rates on shrub nests were similar between regions. Within the tropical region, ground nests had significantly higher predation rates than shrub nests. Elevated nest predation rates at forest edges were found in both temperate and tropical forests. The results may have great implications for expected patterns of avian life histories and for the effects of forest fragmentation in temperate and tropical regions. First, if nest predation affects avian life histories, my results predict ground-nesting species in tropical forests to have shorter nestling periods, more broods and smaller clutch sizes than shrub-nesting species. Second, vulnerability of ground- and shrub-nesting guilds is suggested to differ between regions due to differences in forest vegetation structure, and the composition of predator faunas and their specific responses to forest fragmentation. Data to test these hypotheses are limited, but agree with the results of this review.
3683719|Variables such as weather or other abiotic factors should have a higher influence on demographic rates in border areas than in central areas, given that climatic adaptation might be important in determining range borders. Similarly, for a given area, the relationship between weather and reproduction should be dissimilar for species which are in the centre of their breeding range and those that are near the edge. We tested this hypothesis on two sympatric ground-nesting raptors, the hen harrier Circus cyaneus and the Montagu's harrier Circus pygargus in Madrid, central Spain, where the hen harrier is at the southern edge of its breeding range in the western Palearctic and the Montagu's harrier is central in its distribution. We examined the reproductive success of both species during an 8-yr period, and looked at the influence of the most stressful abiotic factors in the study area (between-year variation in rainfall and within-year variation in temperature) on reproductive parameters. In the hen harrier, low levels of rainfall during the breeding season had a negative influence on annual fledging success and thus on population fledgling production. The relationship between rainfall and reproduction was probably mediated through food abundance, which in Mediterranean habitat depends directly on rainfall levels. In the Montagu's harrier, no negative effect of dry seasons on productivity was found. Additionally, in the hen harrier, the proportion of eggs that did not hatch in each clutch increased with higher temperatures during the incubation period. No such relationship was found in the Montagu's harrier. We interpret these between-species differences in terms of differences of breeding range and adaptations to the average conditions existing there. Hen harriers, commonest at northern latitudes, are probably best adapted to the most typical conditions at those latitudes, and have probably not developed thermoregulatory or behavioural mechanisms to cope with drought and high temperatures in Mediterranean habitats, in contrast to Montagu's harrier. Thus hen harrier distribution might be constrained by these variables, due to lower reproductive success or higher reproductive costs. Accordingly, a logistic regression analysis of the presence or absence of both species in 289 random points throughout the western Palearctic showed that the distribution of both species was related to temperature, but the relationship was in opposite directions for the two species: hen harriers had lower probability of breeding in areas with higher temperature (as expected in a species with a more northerly distribution).
3682775|Determining the spatial variability in abundance structure of rare species is necessary to assess the validity of the often claimed properties of rare species, i.e. as being both vulnerable to extinction and good indicators of environmental change. The spatial concordance of the Lepidoptera species that inhabit a fungus-induced gall on Acacia karroo was examined across South Africa. A positive relationship was found between species distribution and abundance. The common and moderately common species in the community were highly concordant, although the rare species were diffusive. As such, the vulnerability of the rare species in this community is difficult to assess and they are unlikely to make useful indicators of environmental change. Although preliminary results suggest that the community is temporally concordant, establishing the level of temporal, in addition to spatial, concordance of rarity is necessary to determine the mechanisms responsible for the abundance structure of rare species in communities.
3683468|Shrub seedling emergences were studied in a beech-birch forest in the Basque Country (Spain). During four years (1998-2001) all emerging shrubs were tagged and regularly monitored in <tex-math>$198\ 1\ {\rm m}^{2}$</tex-math> plots. Seedling emergence was intense during the entire study period and primarily occurred in early spring. Emerging seedlings mainly belonged to Hedera helix, Rubus gr. glandulosus and several heath species (including genera Erica, Calluna and Daboecia). In contrast, some dominant species components of the shrub layer (Vaccinium myrtillus and Lonicera periclymenum) showed no emergences. While small seeded species (heath species and Rubus) showed clear microsite preferences, avoiding litter for emergence, that was not the case of large seeded Hedera helix. Strict microsite requirements appear clearly associated with having seed bank, suggesting that this trait may allow these species to select favourable microenvironment prior to germination. Average life varied largely among the different taxa. it was very low for Rubus (7.4 months) and heath (4.9), and high for Hedera seedlings (23.1). Final survival was extremely low in the case of small-seeded species. Survival of Hedera seedlings was high, although their growth was very low, suggesting the existence of a conspicuous seedling bank. Our results clearly show that several shrubs species have dramatic seedling dynamics in full closed forest stands. Small seeded species preferentially emerge on bare surfaces in early spring from the soil seed banks. On the other hand, Hedera seedlings are able to emerge on litter and maintain a conspicuous seedling bank based on an efficient dispersal capability.
3683500|Taxonomic distinctness, a measure of diversity that captures the phylogenetic relatedness of an assemblage, has been successfully applied in several marine communities and appears to have considerable potential for environmental assessment and conservation. This approach has, however, not hitherto been used in structured freshwater systems. We evaluated this technique in the context of vulnerable tropical river drainages in India. We found that the inherent physical structure of river systems and longitudinal gradients in habitat characteristics influenced the pattern of taxonomic distinctness. Downstream locations were in general more taxonomically diverse than upstream ones. This in turn means that highly perturbed sites in the lower reaches of rivers would not display a reduction in taxonomic distinctness relative to a random expectation. The utility of the approach for detecting habitat and other disturbances on stream fish communities is thus limited. Implications of these unique properties of river ecosystems and their communities to conservation are discussed.
3683577|Much of conservation science is based upon determining the use by organisms of different resources. However, the field data used to construct habitat association models generally come from a small number of sites covering a fraction of the area of interest. It is important therefore to assess the generality of those models for species occurring over large geographical areas. In this paper we test the generality of models describing skylark Alauda arvensis abundance across farmland in southern England in relation to crop type, crop structure and field structure (i.e. height of surrounding boundaries). Skylarks responded to most predictors we measured in similar ways across three regions of differing farming practices (arable-dominated, pasture-dominated and a mixture of the two). Most of the regional differences in habitat associations could be related to differences in the speed of crop development. For example, the sowing of cereals in spring, a much lauded strategy to increase skylark populations, is likely to have less of an effect in regions where cereal development is slow than in regions where it is fast. Most studies that explicitly test the performance of a model developed in one place elsewhere use presence/absence models. We adopt a more sensitive and novel approach by using counts. We found regression equations developed in one region performed poorly when tested as a direct predictor (i.e. a 1:1 relationship) on data from other regions. However, the skylark territories observed in any one region were positively correlated with the territory numbers predicted by models built using data from other regions, so models were good predictors of relative abundance. The results suggest that, for this species at least, conservationists should have confidence when advocating management strategies based upon habitat-association models and extrapolating their generality to other areas. However, our results warn against using regression equations developed in one place to make absolute quantitative predictions elsewhere. Decision-makers should beware of using models in this way.
3683569|Within ectotherms, increases in body size with latitude are thought to be the consequence of the effect of a decline in development temperature, which results in a larger final body size. In contrast, latitudinal declines in body size are usually ascribed to limited resources. It has been suggested that if generation time is similar to or constitutes a significant proportion of the growing season length, then season length is likely to have a considerable influence on body size because of constraints on resource availability, so resulting in a decline in body size with temperature (latitude). However, if generation time declines relative to season length, resources effectively become available for longer. Temperature influences on growth and differentiation are likely to be most significant, resulting in an increase in body size with latitude. Here, we test the hypothesis by comparing intraspecific altitudinal body size clines in a monophyletic group of weevils from two regions that differ substantially in seasonality. On the relatively aseasonal Marion Island, body size increases with altitude, whereas on the more seasonal Heard Island the opposite is found. In addition, overlapping generations on Marion Island indicate year-round resource availability, whereas more discrete generations on Heard Island indicate winter cessation of growth and development. Our data provide support for the hypothesis that the seasonality of resource availability has a major influence on body size clines. Furthermore, we argue that analysis of interspecific body size clines should be preceded by nested analyses of variance to determine the influence of clinal replacement of higher taxa on these patterns.
3683158|The reproductive phenology of two Iberian populations of midwife toads Alytes obstetricans and A. cisternasii were studied in 1988 and 1989 in two different habitats where climatological conditions restricted reproductive activity to a few months per year. All the observed mating activity of A. cisternasii occurred in less than a week while A. obstetricans matings were observed for over a month. A. cisternasii mating activity was explosive and correlated with rainfall. No clear trends were observed in the timing of egg mass releases with male size, egg mass size, and proportion of egg mass hatched. In both populations males did not complete more than one cycle of egg mass tending per season. The duration of terrestrial egg development was estimated to be of 32 d for A. obstetricans. Alytes cisternasii showed greater flexibility on the duration of egg development, egg masses being released 23 d after the matings in 1988 and 30 d after in 1989. This flexibility is an example of the adaptive significance of terrestrial paternal care when water availability is unpredictable.
3683435|We determined habitat use by foraging bats by broad-band acoustic surveys in 10 habitat types from a Mediterranean area (southern Italy). We applied discriminant functions to identify time-expanded echolocation calls from free-flying bats. Moon phase and cloud cover had no effect on bat activity. Only Hypsugo savii was influenced by temperature, and activity of Myotis doubentonii and Myotis capaccinii was reduced at higher wind speeds. Both total numbers of bat passes and feeding buzzes were highest over rivers and lakes. Pipistrellus kuhlii and H. savii were most frequently recorded. Pipistrellus kuhlii, Pipistrellus pipistrellus and Tadarida teniotis proved generalists in using foraging habitats. Water sites and conifer plantations were respectively the most and the least used habitats by H. savii. Rivers were especially important to Myotis bats, Miniopterus schreibersii and Pipistrellus pygmaeus. Unlike P. kuhlii, P. pipistrellus was frequent in beech woodlands; P. pygmaeus made a considerable use of chestnut woodlands and Myotis spp. were moderately active in both these woodland types. A large number of endangered or vulnerable species featured in riparian habitats, broadleaved woodlands and olive groves. Riparian and woodland habitats constitute an important target for conservation. Typical land use forms such as woodlands used for chestnut production and traditionally managed olive groves should be encouraged in conservation plans. The negative impact of urbanisation on bats might be counteracted by fostering trees, gardens and small cultivated patches. Farmland practices should encourage landscape complexity and limit the use of pesticides.
3683690|The diet of raccoon dogs in summer was examined in the Finnish archipelago and compared with their diet on the mainland. Faeces were collected from latrines in the outer archipelago and the inhabited islands in May-July 1998 and 1999. Remains of waterfowl, especially those of female eider, occurred frequently in the faeces of raccoon dogs on the uninhabited islands, but less frequently on the inhabited islands and only occasionally on the mainland. Since many female eider died of disease during the summer in 1998 and 1999, and white-tailed eagles are known to prey on brooding eider, it is probable that raccoon dogs did not themselves kill all the eider they consumed. Even if they did, they would only take a few percent of female eider population each year. It is thus improbable that raccoon dogs affect the size of the eider population in the Finnish archipelago. Frogs, reptiles, shrews and carrion occurred frequently in the diet on the mainland, but only occasionally in the outer archipelago. It is possible that raccoon dogs have decimated frog populations on small islands, as they are easy prey and occur frequently in the diet of raccoon dogs on the mainland. Small rodents are important prey for raccoon dogs on the mainland and on inhabited islands, but less important in the outer archipelago in early summer.
20696310|Using field seed sowings, we assessed how four mammal species (Meles meles, Vulpes vulpes, Sus scrofa, and Oryctolagus cuniculus) influenced seed germination in three fleshy-fruited Mediterranean shrubs (Corema album, Pyrus bourgaeana, and Rubus ulmifolius). We predicted that gut passage and removal away from mother plants would enhance the quantity, speed, and asynchrony of seed germination. Results showed that percent germination was altered by gut passage, but that the magnitude and even the direction of such effects varied according to plant and disperser species. Likewise, dispersal away from mother plants affected the percentage and germination speed in some species but not others. Gut passage increased asynchrony of germination in Rubus and Pyrus, and removal from the mother plant increased asynchrony in Rubus, which likely enhances plant fitness in unpredictable environments. Gut passage generally had a stronger effect on germination than removal away from mother plants, but for some species both factors were similarly influential. Therefore, the combined effects of both seed dispersal services varied individually among fruit and frugivore species, leading to unusually high functional diversity in this seed dispersal mutualism.
30243273|Understanding the ecological process of population differentiation and identifying the molecular changes that contribute to adaptation is a central aspect of evolutionary biology. In this study we analyzed the geographic variation in allozyme allele frequencies (based on 15 enzyme systems representing 18 loci) across 18 populations of the butterfly Lycaena tityrus from different altitudes. Population genetic analyses showed that within population genetic diversity (e.g. mean number of alleles per loci: 1.8; expected heterozygosity: 12%) was within the typical value range for the Lepidoptera. The populations of L. tityrus investigated showed a remarkable genetic differentiation (FST: 0.065), being clearly divided into an alpine (high-altitude) and a non-alpine (low-altitude) cluster. This differentiation was almost entirely caused by variation at a single enzyme locus, PGI. Although the involvement of historical events cannot be ruled out, several lines of evidence suggest that the specific pattern of allozyme (and in this case particularly PGI) variation found is caused by thermal selection. For example, genetic variation was highly locus-specific rather than relatively uniform, as should be expected for effects of natural selection. Further, the PGI 2-2 genotype dominating in alpine (in contrast to low-altitude) populations is known to exhibit increased cold stress resistance and relatively long development times typical of alpine populations. Thus, PGI (or possibly a closely linked gene) is an obvious target for thermal selection in L. tityrus. This study exemplifies how allozyme analyses can be used to detect candidate loci likely to be under selection.
30243145|The loss of biodiversity has become a matter of urgent concern and a better understanding of local drivers is crucial for conservation. Although environmental heterogeneity is recognized as an important determinant of biodiversity, this has rarely been tested using field data at management scale. We propose and provide evidence for the simple hypothesis that local species diversity is related to spatial environmental heterogeneity. Species partition the environment into habitats. Biodiversity is therefore expected to be influenced by two aspects of spatial heterogeneity: 1) the variability of environmental conditions, which will affect the number of types of habitat, and 2) the spatial configuration of habitats, which will affect the rates of ecological processes, such as dispersal or competition. Earlier, simulation experiments predicted that both aspects of heterogeneity will influence plant species richness at a particular site. For the first time, these predictions were tested for plant communities using field data, which we collected in a wooded pasture in the Swiss Jura mountains using a four-level hierarchical sampling design. Richness generally increased with increasing environmental variability and "roughness" (i.e. decreasing spatial aggregation). Effects occurred at all scales, but the nature of the effect changed with scale, suggesting a change in the underlying mechanisms, which will need to be taken into account if scaling up to larger landscapes. Although we found significant effects of environmental heterogeneity, other factors such as history could also be important determinants. If a relationship between environmental heterogeneity and species richness can be shown to be general, recently available high-resolution environmental data can be used to complement the assessment of patterns of local richness and improve the prediction of the effects of land use change based on mean site conditions or land use history.
3683249| Fragmentation of the forested landscape poses a threat to many aspects of biodiversity associated with old-growth forests. Studies of the effects of forest fragmentation are often complicated by the variation in composition and age of patches and the matrix. This study used a system of isolated stands where patch age and composition were similar and the matrix variability negligible. The patches were composed of old-growth Picea abies stands of varying size and shape in a wetland matrix. The study organisms were epiphytic crustose calicioid lichens (also known as Caliciales), many of which are very substrate-specific and restricted to old-growth stands. The aim of the study was to measure the effect of patch size, patch isolation, habitat and substrate quality on the species richness and composition of epiphytic calicioids. Twenty-four patches ranging from 0.4 to 15.9 ha in size were studied. All species of calicioid lichens were registered in 0.1 ha plots in each patch. Isolation was measured as the percentage of available habitat within 400 m of a patch. Twenty-two species were found with an average of 9.48  0.26 (SE) species per patch and 2.92  0.18 (SE) species per tree. Species richness at patch level correlated with stand structure, primarily tree density, while number of species per tree (reflecting population size) was strongly correlated with island size and several stand variables. There was no effect of isolation on species richness. Species composition was influenced by both substrate variables and patch size. The species composition on the islands showed a significant nestedness, i.e. species composition on species-poor islands constituted a non-random subset of the species composition on species-rich islands. We propose that the explanation for the strong relationship between species richness at tree level and stand size is an edge effect which implies that unaffected interior areas only occur on large islands. The different microclimate of the patch edge enables only the hardiest species to establish large populations there whilst shade and moisture demanding species are restricted to the interiors of larger islands. 
3683615|Species distribution patterns have been explained by Hutchinson's niche theory, metapopulation theory and source-sink theory. Empirical verification of this framework, however, remains surprisingly scant. In this paper, we test the hypothesis that landscape characteristics (patch size and connectivity), aerial dispersal ability and niche breadth interact in explaining distribution patterns of 29 spider species inhabiting fragmented grey dunes. Distribution patterns only depended on aerial dispersal potential, and the interaction between patch connectivity and area. Niche breadth, measured as the degree of habitat specialisation in the total coastal dune system, did not contribute to the observed distribution patterns. Additional variation in patch occupancy frequency was strongly species-dependent and was determined by different responses to the degree of patch connectivity for ballooning dispersal. Results from this study suggest that dispersal ability largely affects our perception of a species "fundamental niche", and that source-sink and metapopulation dynamics may have a major impact on the distribution of species. From a conservation point of view, specialised (and hence intrinsically rare) species can be predicted to become rarer if fragmentation increases and connectivity decreases. This study is, to our knowledge, one of the few linking species distribution (and not patch occupancy, species diversity or richness) to landscape ecological (patch connectivity and area) and auto-ecological (niche breadth, dispersal potential) features.
3683234|Management practices favoring conifers at the expense of deciduous tree species, and the eradication of deciduous trees, especially aspen Populus tremula, from managed forests have resulted in population declines in several species in Fennoscandia. In addition to species depending on decaying wood of deciduous trees, earlier evidence suggests that leaf litter, especially that of aspen, is favored by many carabid species. We ran a four-year experiment in order to compare carabid assemblages of unchanged forest floor with artificially created leaf-litter plots in central Finland. A total of 18 plots (5 m in diameter) were established in three forest stands without aspen a few kilometers apart. Each stand had 3 litter plots (litter added) and 3 control plots. Pre-treatment samples were compared with those collected after litter addition. The litter addition affected the carabid-assemblage structure by increasing the catches of some species and decreasing the catch of one species. The number of carabid species was similar in control and litter plots. The litter effect was smaller than variation among forest stands and year-to-year fluctuations. There was a strong temporal constancy among the plots: "rich" plots remained "rich" from year to year and similarly, "poor" plots remained "poor". The significant influence of leaf litter on carabid abundance can be attributable to both abiotic factors (microenvironmental conditions, especially humidity and temperature), and biotic ones (changes in niche structure, improved food supply). Leaf litter seems to have an effect on carabid distribution patterns, and deciduous trees scattered among conifers are likely to be of importance on carabid fauna in boreal forests.
3683453|Amphibians are frequently characterized as having limited dispersal abilities, strong site fidelity and spatially disjunct breeding habitat. As such, pond-breeding species are often alleged to form metapopulations. Amphibian species worldwide appear to be suffering population level declines caused, at least in part, by the degradation and fragmentation of habitat and the intervening areas between habitat patches. If the simplification of amphibians occupying metapopulations is accurate, then a regionally based conservation strategy, informed by metapopulation theory, is a powerful tool to estimate the isolation and extinction risk of ponds or populations. However, to date no attempt to assess the class-wide generalization of amphibian populations as metapopulations has been made. We reviewed the literature on amphibians as metapopulations (53 journal articles or theses) and amphibian dispersal (166 journal articles or theses for 53 anuran species and 37 salamander species) to evaluate whether the conditions for metapopulation structure had been tested, whether pond isolation was based only on the assumption of limited dispersal, and whether amphibian dispersal was uniformly limited. We found that in the majority of cases (74%) the assumptions of the metapopulation paradigm were not tested. Breeding patch isolation via limited dispersal and/or strong site fidelity was the most frequently implicated or tested metapopulation condition, however we found strong evidence that amphibian dispersal is not as uniformly limited as is often thought. The frequency distribution of maximum movements for anurans and salamanders was well described by an inverse power law. This relationship predicts that distances beneath 11-13 and 8-9 km, respectively, are in a range that they may receive one emigrating individual. Populations isolated by distances approaching this range are perhaps more likely to exhibit metapopulation structure than less isolated populations. Those studies that covered larger areas also tended to report longer maximum movement distances - a pattern with implications for the design of mark-recapture studies. Caution should be exercised in the application of the metapopulation approach to amphibian population conservation. Some amphibian populations are structured as metapopulations - but not all.
30244518|Understanding the patterns of spatial and temporal variations in animal abundance is a fundamental question in ecology. Here, we propose a method to quantify temporal variations in animal spatial patterns and to determine the spatial scale at which such temporal variability is expressed. The methodology extends from the approach proposed by Taylor (Taylor, L. R. 1961. Aggregation, variance and the mean. Nature 189: 732-735) and relies on models of the relationship between temporal mean and variance in animal abundance. Repeated observations of the spatial distribution of populations are used to construct spatially explicit models of Taylor's power law. The resulting slope parameters of the Taylor power law provide local measures of the temporal variability in animal abundance. We investigate if the value of the slope varies significantly with spatial location and with spatial scale. The method is applied to seabirds distribution in the Bay of Biscay. We study four taxa (northern gannets, large gulls, auks and kittiwakes) that display distinct geographical distribution, spatial structure and foraging strategy. Our results show that the temporal variability associated to the spatial distribution of northern gannets is high and spatially homogeneous. By contrast, kittiwakes present large geographical areas associated with high and low variability. The temporal variability of auk's spatial distribution is strongly scale-dependent: at fine scale high variability is associated to high abundance, but at large scale high variability is associated to the external border of their distribution range. The method provides satisfactory results and useful information on species spatio-temporal distribution.
3683630| The native noble crayfish Astacus astacus L., and the introduced North American signal crayfish Pacifastacus leniusculus Dana, co-occur in Slickolampi, a small lake in southern Finland. That both species have lived side-by-side for 30 yr without any signs of crayfish plague Aphanomyces astaci, indicates that the P. leniusculus population must be plague-free. According to annual trap catches and population size estimates, A. astacus was clearly dominant in the 1970s and most of the 1980s. At the end of the 1980s, however, there was a shift in the relative abundances of the two species, and in the 1990s, P. leniusculus became dominant. As the 1990s drew to a close, it accounted for >98% of total catches. Originating from a minor stocking (only 900 2nd stage juveniles) P. leniusculus has not augmented the existing fauna in this lake but has almost completely replaced A. astacus. Both species seem to a great extent to prefer the same types of biotope but P. leniusculus is distinctly more demanding and was encountered less often than A. astacus on gently-sloping soft shores. The proportion of A. astacus with chelae injuries (16 yr, mean 17.3%) was nearly twice that of P. leniusculus (9.3%), suggesting that agonistic interspecific encounters do occur and that P. leniusculus is much more competitive. However, the consistent weakening of A. astacus, even at sites with only a low density of P. leniusculus, indicates that the elimination of A. astacus is not adequately explained by competitive exclusion. We suggest that its disappearance is governed by a combination of several interacting mechanisms, of which harvest ( 100 mm specimens of both species) and interspecific competition with P. leniusculus were initially the main reasons for the decline in the population. The ultimate reason for the collapse of A. astacus seems to have been the almost complete cessation of successful reproduction, presumably due to reproductive interference between the two species. Interspecific mating results in females laying sterile eggs. Although both species suffer from the ensuing loss of recruitment, the consequences are less serious for P. leniusculus, which has a higher capacity for population increase than A. astacus: the smaller the proportion of A. astacus, the greater the role played by reproductive interference as a replacement mechanism. 
30244622|Intensification of land-use in agricultural landscapes is responsible for a decline of biodiversity which provide important ecosystem services like pest-control. Changes in landscape composition may also induce behavioural changes of predators in response to variation in the biotic or abiotic environment. By controlling for environmentally confounding factors, we here demonstrate that the orb web spider Araneus diadematus alters its web building behaviour in response to changes in the composition of agricultural landscapes. Thereby, the species increases its foraging efficiency (i.e. investments in silk and web asymmetry) with an increase of agricultural land-use at intermediate spatial scales. This intensification is also related to a decrease in the abundance of larger prey. A negative effect of landscape properties at similar spatial scales on spider fitness was recorded when controlling for relative investments in capture thread length. This study consequently documents the web building flexibility in response to changes in landscape composition, possibly due to changes in prey availability.
3683592|Long-distance seed dispersal influences many critical ecological processes by improving chances of gene flow and maintaining genetic diversity among plant populations. Accordingly, large-scale movements by frugivores may have important conservation implications as they provide an opportunity for long-distance seed dispersal. We studied movement patterns, resource tracking, and potential long-distance seed dispersal by two species of Ceratogymna hornbills, the black-casqued hornbill C. atrata, and the white-thighed hornbill C. cylindricus, in lowland tropical forests of Cameroon. We determined fruiting phenology of 24 tree species important in hornbill diet at monthly intervals and compared these patterns to monthly hornbill census data. After capture and radio-tagging of 16 hornbills, we used radio telemetry by vehicle and fixed wing aircraft to determine the extent of long-distance movements. Hornbills exhibited up to 20-fold changes in numbers in response to fruit availability in our 25 km
3683050| To determine whether American martens Martes americana behaviourally thermoregulate in winter, and to estimate the energetic cost of resting in various forest microhabitats, we studied microenvironments used by martens in a coniferous forest in the Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming. We hypothesized that martens would rest in sites that minimized energetic costs, and that the relative thermal efficiency of sites would vary as a function of snow depth and weather. By measuring heat loss from a heated model and calculating operative temperature, we found that equivalent marten metabolic rates were inversely related to operative temperatures. Operative temperatures were generally higher outside resting cavities than inside, except when snow was > 15 cm, outside air temperature was  -5C, and wind was  0.3 m s
3683750|Local extinctions are often non-randomly associated with range size, dispersal ability and habitat specificity, as well as body size, sexual dimorphism and phylogeny. We used a large data set of the Orthoptera species (bush crickets, crickets, grasshoppers) occurring in Germany and compared the number of occupied grid cells before 1980 to those occupied after 1980, corrected for monitoring intensity. The number of grid cells in which a species went extinct was non-linearly related to the number of occupied grid cells per species. Using generalized linear modelling we analysed extinction in relation to national distribution (the number of occupied grid cells before 1980), dispersal ability (derived from a large body of literature concerning wing development, colonization dynamics and within-habitat mobility), habitat specificity (moisture specialists versus generalists), potential reproduction (the number of ovarioles), the degree of sexual size dimorphism and phylogeny (twelve clades). Species with a large global range size also had a large national range size. Species with a large range experienced more total extinction events than species with smaller ranges but relatively fewer compared to range size. The latter relationship was largely shaped by the dispersal ability of the species: the interactions of range size  dispersal ability and range size  habitat specificity explained almost one third of the variation in the number of extinction events. Species with high dispersal ability went extinct in a similar number of grid cells irrespective of their range size. By contrast, species with low dispersal ability went extinct in proportion to their range size. Therefore, comparing the speed of extinction across species in the conventional way of extinction rates (that is the percentage of range contraction) might be flawed because it only applies to species with low dispersal ability. Sexual size dimorphism was not a significant predictor of extinction. Extinction was not concentrated on particular clades.
20696319|In any statistical analysis, assessing the goodness of fit of a model to the data is crucial to avoid drawing incorrect conclusions. U-CARE is a computer application that deals with the mandatory first steps of the analyses of capturerecapture data: the preparation of the data set and the assessment of the fit of a general model (Cormack-Jolly-Seber and variants for single-state data; Jolly-Move and variants for multi-state data). U-CARE implements the current state of the art in goodness-of-fit testing by incorporating components aimed at detecting the most likely departures from assumptions (Pradel et al. 2003, 2005). It is a free and stand-alone application for Windows.
30244531|Vegetation texture, describing plant communities by the range of characters present in them, can describe functional variation more effectively than using the identities of the species. We ask whether spatial trends, as seen in spatial autocorrelation (SAc), are stronger in vegetation texture. We also ask in what environment SAc is stronger, whether local or over longer distances, and with what measure of distance. Roadside vegetation was sampled across an orographic region of the South Island, New Zealand, from a high-rainfall zone up to just above treeline (the "Wet" side) and then down into a rain-shadow area (the "Dry" side). Species composition was recorded in quadrats placed in 30 clusters. Five functional plant characters were measured on all species encountered: characters that have been reported in the literature to correlate with light-capture, heat budget and nutrient strategy. SAc was calculated using a saturation-response type of relation in species composition, and also in texture using the five functional characters. There was significant species-composition SAc in almost all comparisons, but the maximum percentage of variation explained was 25%. The fit was almost always higher using local, short-distance, comparisons than using comparisons over a whole side (Wet or Dry). On average dissimilarity had reached 90% of its asymptote after ca 250 m. It is concluded that the SAc was mainly due to local factors. SAc relations almost always predicted the presence/absence of species more accurately than their abundance. Distances along the road generally gave a very slightly better fit to species composition than surface distances, suggesting that there might be dispersal limitation. On the Wet side, elevation in overall comparisons gave a still better fit, implying environmental control too. The strength of SAc in texture was strongest on the Dry side, and using overall comparisons, abundance weighting and surface distances, but in other cases texture SAc was weaker than SAc in species composition. It is concluded that the saturation-response formula used here has theoretical advantages over previous approaches. The SAc in this vegetation seems to be caused by a combination of dispersal limitation, broad environmental trends and especially local environmental effects such as disturbance. SAc in texture may have been weaker overall on the Wet side than on the Dry because the main environmental difference across the former is in frost, and characters correlated with frost resistance have not yet been included in texture analyses.
30243276|Climate change and invasive species are two stressors that should have large impacts on native species in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. We quantify and integrate the effects of climate change and the establishment of an invasive species (smallmouth bass Micropterus dolomieu) on native lake trout Salvelinus namaycush populations. We assembled a dataset of almost 22 000 Canadian lakes that contained information on fish communities, lake morphologies, and geography. We examined the pelagic-benthic and littoral forage fish community available to lake trout populations across three lake size classes in these aquatic ecosystems. Due to the decreased presence of alternate prey resources, lake trout populations residing in smaller lakes are more vulnerable to the effects of smallmouth bass establishment. A detailed spatially and temporally explicit approach to assess smallmouth bass invasion risk in Ontario lakes suggests that the number of Ontario lakes with vulnerable lake trout populations could increase from 118 (1%) to 1612 (20%) by 2050 following projected climate warming. In addition, we identified nearly 9700 lake trout populations in Canada threatened by 2100, by the potential range expansion of smallmouth bass. Our study provides an integration of two major stressors of ecosystems, namely climate change and invasive species, by considering climate-change scenarios, dispersal rates of invasive species, and inter-specific biotic interactions.
30244567|Bromus tectorum (cheatgrass) is an invasive annual that occupies perennial grass and shrub communities throughout the western United States. Bromus tectorum exhibits an intriguing spatio-temporal pattern of invasion in low elevation ponderosa pine Pinusponderosa/bunchgrass communities in western Montana where it forms dense rings beneath solitary pines following fire. This pattern provides a unique opportunity to investigate several indirect effects of native vegetation that influence the invasion pattern of B. tectorum, and specifically how native species, disturbance, and soil resources interact to influence the spatio-temporal pattern of invasion. We established four replicate field sites, each containing burned-tree, burned-grass, unburned-tree, and unburned-grass sampling locations, and initiated a series of field sampling and greenhouse experiments utilizing these locations. The objective of our first greenhouse experiment was to identify whether belowground factors contributed to the pattern of B. tectorum biomass observed in these field locations. This experiment generated a B. tectorum biomass response that was nearly identical to the invasion pattern observed in the field, suggesting further investigation of belowground factors was necessary. We measured resin-sorbed NH and NO during one generation of B. tectorum, and measured a suite of P fractions through a sequential extraction procedure from these soils. These data revealed that a resource island of high N and P exists beneath pine trees. Through a second greenhouse experiment, we determined that N limited B. tectorum biomass in tree soil, whereas P limited biomass in bunchgrass soil. Finally, through a germination experiment we determined that pine litter strongly inhibited B. tectorum germination. These data suggest B. tectorum is regulated by P in bunchgrass soil, and by N and inhibition by pine litter beneath trees, effects that are likely alleviated by fire. These data demonstrate the combined role of direct and indirect interactions between native and invasive species in regulating biological invasions.
3683674|Physical factors that may account for regional patterns of plant species diversity remain controversial. We aim to determine the relationship of tree species diversity to environmental factors identifiable at regional scale in the northern Neotropics. We use a high-resolution data set based on herbarium collections of all native tree species known to occur in the highly diverse and physiographically heterogeneous Mexican state of Chiapas. We analyzed 114 grid cells (5 min latitude  5 min longitude each) with 40 or more vouchers. We obtained from maps (scale 1:250000) data on temperature, rainfall, elevation, and soils, and calculated for each grid cell mean actual evapotranspiration (AET), its ratio during the rainy and dry seasons (RET), average fertility/quality of soils (SFQ), and elevation (coarse-scale topography) variance (SDE). These variables were largely independent of each other, and were entered in multiple regression models to predict species diversity assessed with Simpson's index of concentration. A model that accounted for 41.4% of the total variance in tree diversity showed positive effects of AET and seasonality (RET), whereas SFQ had a negative effect. A curvilinear model described well the relationship between tree diversity and AET <tex-math>$({\rm R}^{2}=0.45)$</tex-math>, and an intermediate maximum was detected. The data pattern suggested an asymptotic relationship as well, which was confirmed with a two-part regression. Regression quantiles provided better estimates of the effect of SFQ with the upper envelope of the data (0.85-0.90 quantiles). Minimum diversity at intermediate rainfall values hints at a bimodal model of tree diversity along a rainfall gradient, in opposition to the frequent contention of a positive linear relationship. We suggest that broad-scale climatic gradients interact with intraregional landscape-level influences, thus leading to the observed nonlinear responses of tree diversity to environmental predictors.
30243130|Advances in technology have allowed ecologists to employ remote observations of individual organism's spatial location. These data are used to model species distributions and habitat associations, which inform conservation efforts and management plans. These data are not without error. To illustrate the consequences of not considering measurement error, I introduce measurement error to a habitat selection model, using three different distributions. I show how measurement error can confound inferences made about a hypothetical organism's true habitat selection. By simulating different initial strengths of selection I show the introduction of measurement error results in the largest reduction in habitat selection strength (from truth) for very selective individuals (habitat specialists). Not surprisingly, the inclusion of error in very weakly selective individuals (habitat generalists) can result in a switching from true selection to observed avoidance. Researchers need to be aware that, first, there is measurement error in remotely observed data, and second, a tradeoff occurs between measurement error and landscape fragmentation. Landscapes with a high degree of fragmentation require spatially accurate (low measurement error) data in order to make reliable estimates of habitat selection or species distribution. The results of this study are discussed in light of the conservation of species threatened by habitat fragmentation and the management suggestions arising from selection studies.
3683338| Allozyme data were used to assess the genetic structure between 37 sympatric populations of the species-pair Silene vulgaris and S. uniflora ssp. petraea, and to infer levels of intra- and interspecific gene flow in the two species. Silene vulgaris is a geographically widespread weed of disturbed habitats whereas S. uniflora ssp. petraea is endemic to the Baltic islands of land and Gotland. On land, Silene vulgaris forms extensive linear populations along roads while S. uniflora ssp. petraea occurs in sparse and spatially-separated populations in open limestone habitats. Despite the differences in population size and structure between the two species, both species show extremely low levels of between-population differentiation. Between-site differences account for <2% of the total allozyme diversity within land in S. vulgaris, and <1% in S. uniflora ssp. petraea. Indirect estimates of gene flow are high for both species (Nm = 11 and 27, respectively). There is no relationship between genetic distance and geographic distance within either species, and the lack of genetic structure is consistent with the pollination biology of the species - both of which are predominantly moth-pollinated. The two species hybridize in intermediate habitats, and the geographic distribution of species-characteristic alleles indicates a potential for spatially extensive interspecific gene flow. Nevertheless, there are significant differences in allele frequencies between the two species and multivariate analyses show no overlap between populations of the two species. The species are ecologically separated by their different habitat preferences and by differences in their flowering phenology. There is no evidence that the endemic S. uniflora ssp. petraea is threatened by genetic contamination or assimilation by the widespread weed, S. vulgaris. 
30243233|There have been numerous claims in the ecological literature that spatial autocorrelation in the residuals of ordinary least squares (OLS) regression models results in shifts in the partial coefficients, which bias the interpretation of factors influencing geographical patterns. We evaluate the validity of these claims using gridded species richness data for the birds of North America, South America, Europe, Africa, the ex-USSR, and Australia. We used richness in 110 x 110 km cells and environmental predictor variables to generate OLS and simultaneous autoregressive (SAR) multiple regression models for each region. Spatial correlograms of the residuals from each OLS model were then used to identify the minimum distance between cells necessary to avoid short-distance residual spatial autocorrelation in each data set. This distance was used to subsample cells to generate spatially independent data. The partial OLS coefficients estimated with the full dataset were then compared to the distributions of coefficients created with the subsamples. We found that OLS coefficients generated from data containing residual spatial autocorrelation were statistically indistinguishable from coefficients generated from the same data sets in which short-distance spatial autocorrelation was not present in all 22 coefficients tested. Consistent with the statistical literature on this subject, we conclude that coefficients estimated from OLS regression are not seriously affected by the presence of spatial autocorrelation in gridded geographical data. Further, shifts in coefficients that occurred when using SAR tended to be correlated with levels of uncertainty in the OLS coefficients. Thus, shifts in the relative importance of the predictors between OLS and SAR models are expected when small-scale patterns for these predictors create weaker and more unstable broad-scale coefficients. Our results indicate both that OLS regression is unbiased and that differences between spatial and nonspatial regression models should be interpreted with an explicit awareness of spatial scale.
30243202|This paper reports a bioclimatic envelope model study of the potential distribution of 19 tree species in the Iberian Peninsula during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM; 21 000 yr BP) and the Mid-Holocene (6000 yr BP). Current patterns of tree species richness and distributions are believed to have been strongly influenced by the climate during these periods. The modelling employed novel machine learning techniques, and its accuracy was evaluated using a threshold-independent method. Two atmospheric general circulation models, UGAMP and ECHAM3 (generated by the Palaeoclimate Modelling Intercomparison Project, PMIP), were used to provide climate scenarios under which the distributions of the 19 tree species were modelled. The results obtained for these scenarios were assessed by agreement measure analysis; they differed significantly for the LGM, but were more similar for the Mid-Holocene. The results for the LGM support the inferred importance of pines in the Iberian Peninsula at this time, and the presence of evergreen Quercus in the south. Important differences in the altitude at which the modelled species grew were also predicted. During the LGM, some normally higher mountain species potentially became reestablished in the foothills of the Pyrenees. The warm Mid-Holocene climate is clearly reflected in the predicted expansion of broad-leaved forests during this period, including the colonization of the northern part of the Iberian Peninsula by evergreen Quercus species.
3682883|We compared beetles collected from eight forest fragments in a suburban-agricultural setting and one contiguous forest in south-central Ontario. Samples were collected by pan traps from the interior of continuous forest and upland deciduous forest fragments ranging in size from 43 to 2350 ha. The pooled sample was composed of 4561 individuals from 117 species. Differences in beetle assemblages was primarily due to variation in patch isolation, although actual fragment size had a significant effect on the abundance of native and forest specializing carabid species, and the amount of forest interior habitat had a significant effect on the total number of beetle species and ground beetle species richness (family Carabidae). Fragments which were less isolated on a local scale (within a 2 km radius) had a species composition most similar to that found in continuous forest, regardless of whether the actual forest area was small or large. Marked differences in abundance and biomass were also attributed to variation in the amount of local forest cover. We suggest that a reduction in patch isolation may be an appropriate conservation strategy to improve beetle diversity and abundance in fragmented landscapes.
3683046|Data from a national butterfly monitoring scheme were analysed to test the theory that animal populations are more variable towards the edges of species' ranges. Nine of the 24 species tested fluctuated with significantly greater amplitude nearer their northern limits, providing the first clear evidence of this phenomenon among ectotherms. With some species, the pattern of fluctuations also varied across ranges, with populations increasing and decreasing more gradually, and perhaps cyclically, over several generations in the north.
3682934|This 3-yr study documents large variation in pollination and seed quality in birches (Betula) in northern Sweden, between taxa, high and low altitude populations, and among years. Seed quality was positively correlated with pollination degree, and improved by pollen supplementation in B. pubescens ssp. pubescens in the mountain area, indicating pollen limitation. Betula pendula showed the same tendency, but less pronounced. Reduced sexual reproduction of B. pendula in the mountain area might more often be due to limited resources for seed maturation and defense of the seeds against predispersal seed predation. In contrast, coastal populations of both species display relatively high pollination rates and supplemental pollination had no effect on seed quality, suggesting that pollen limitation is rare or absent here. The mountain birch Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa showed generally lower pollination and seed quality compared with B. pubescens ssp. pubescens, but not compared with mountain populations of B. pendula. It is concluded that pollen limitation may occur in Betula, but to what extent varies with taxon, altitude and year. The seed quality is also strongly affected by other factors such as infections of gall midges (Semudobia spp., Diptera, Cecidomyiidae), and incomplete seed maturation.
3683115|Faced with the rapid and extensive conversion of tropical rain forests to pasture lands and agricultural fields and with the need to preserve the remaining mammalian fauna, it is imperative to determine how the different species that form the mammalian community have responded to the anthropogenic alterations of their natural habitats. To provide data in this direction, we sampled bats in 45 forest islands, in 20 agricultural habitats representing five types of vegetation (cocoa, coffee, mixed, citrus and allspice), in four live-fence sites and in four pasture sites at Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, Mexico. Sampling effort resulted in the capture of 2587 bats representing 35 species. In forest habitats we detected 32 species. We did not capture any bats at the four pasture sites, but the at the other agricultural habitats studied, we captured 38% of the bats and 77% of the species recorded. Thirty-four percent of the species recorded were present at the live-fence habitats. Isolating distance was an important variable influencing species richness in forests and in agricultural habitats. Only 10% of the species recorded occurred in all the habitats studied, but 77% of the species occurred in a habitat other than rain forest. Recaptures of bats indicated inter habitat movements in the fragmented landscape. We discuss the conservation value for the bat fauna of agricultural islands of vegetation as elements reducing isolating distances among forest fragments.
3682757|We studied territory placement and foraging behavior of breeding birds in relation to juxtaposition of forest vegetation and logged patches in southern Vermont, USA. Different bird species used disturbed vegetation at differing spatial scales, depending on territory size. Four species Dendroica pensylvanica, Geothlypis trichas, Zonotrichia albicollis, Oporornis philadelphia showed strong clumping of their small (< 0.5 ha) territories in logged patches and were absent or rare in undisturbed forest. Eleven species (e.g. Seiurus aurocapillus, Vireo olivaceus) tended to avoid logged areas, especially the centers of cut patches. An additional 17 species fell between these two extremes, using a mixture of disturbed and undisturbed forest and showing no tendency to prefer one or the other. These 17 species tended to have larger (1 to > 3 ha) territories than disturbance specialists. We used ordination and quantitative matrix comparisons to describe and test relationships among 14 of the most common bird species according to their similarities in territory habitat structure, tree species composition, and foraging behavior. These analyses did not reveal any strong associations between foraging behavior and use of cut versus uncut forest. Habitat use by birds occupying this forest mosaic, with its strong local gradient of vegetation structure, was thus not associated with concurrent variation in foraging behavior. The sizes of cut patches of forest (0.7-1.6 ha) in our study area may be close to the minimum required to attract distinct breeding assemblages of non-forest birds to otherwise undisturbed forest ecosystems. Bird species that use patches of early-successional vegetation embedded in a forested landscape may adopt a fugitive strategy as they seek nesting habitats in the spring. Careful use of forest management techniques may permit both forest-interior and early-successional bird species to coexist in the landscape.
3683842|This study describes the distribution of Weddell seals Leptonychotes weddelli in winter (May-September 1999) at the Vestfold Hills, in Prydz Bay, East Antarctica. Specifically, we describe the spatial extent of haul-out sites in shore-fast sea-ice, commonly referred to as fast-ice. As winter progressed, and the fast-ice grew thick (ca 2 m), most of the inshore holes closed over, and the seals' distribution became restricted to ocean areas beyond land and islands. Using observations from the end of winter only, we fitted Generalised Additive Models (GAMs) to generate resource selection functions, which are models that yield values proportional to the probability of use. The models showed that seal distribution was defined mainly by distance to ice-edge and distance to land. Distance to ice-bergs was also selected for models of some regions. We present the results as maps of the fitted probability of seal presence, predicted by the binomial GAM for offshore regions, both with and without autocorrelation terms. The maps illustrate the expected distribution encompassing most of the observed distribution. On this basis, we hypothesise that propensity for the fast-ice to crack is the major determinant of Weddell seal distribution in winter. Proximity to open water and pack-ice habitats could also influence the distribution of haul-out sites in fast-ice areas. This is the first quantitative study of Weddell seal distribution in winter. Potential for regional variation is discussed.
3683363| The demography and abundance of Collembola in relation to a gradient of increasingly isolated tussocks of Carex ursina were investigated near Ny-lesund, Svalbard. The study area was divided into three zones according to tussock density. Ten tussocks were sampled in each zone. In addition, samples were taken between tussocks, which consisted of ground covered with a layer of cyanobacteria. A total of ten Collembola species were found, five of which were chosen for further studies. The Carex tussocks were the preferred habitat for the majority of these species. Only one species, Hypogastrura viatica, was found regularly between tussocks, although at low density. The gradient in tussock distribution was probably an important factor in determining the distribution, abundance and the underlying demographic processes of most species. This was indicated by an increase in demographic heterogeneity with patch isolation. The different species were affected differently, however. Whereas one species appeared to be unaffected by the gradient (H. viatica), two species (H. longispina) and (Folsomia sexoculata) were somewhat surprisingly found to have their highest density where tussocks were furthest apart. Factors other than the spatial configuration of the habitat are probably important in determining the distribution of these two species, indicated by a positive correlation at tussock level between them. In accordance with general hypotheses on the effect of patchiness on population dynamics the remaining two species, F. quadrioculata and Onychiurus groenlandicus, occurred in very low numbers or not at all, respectively, in the zone where tussocks were furthest apart. Their response is probably dependent on their ability to successfully colonise isolated tussocks. We predict that different species specific demographic strategies, and in particular dispersal rates, may account for the observed patterns. 
30244698|Understanding temporal variation in habitat selection and browsing intensity by large herbivores is fundamental because of their large impact on the ecosystems. I studied the annual variation in winter browsing pressure on young trees and habitat selection by moose Alces alces over a ten year period. Specifically, the relationships between browsing pressure on Scots pine Pinus sylvestris and two birch species (Betula ssp.) and three explanatory variables - 1) availability of forage, 2) moose density (estimated by pellet group counts) and 3) snow cover was studied. At a larger spatial scale (forest stand level) the relationship between moose habitat selection between three different habitat types (forest <30 yr, forest >30 yr and mire) and two explanatory variables, 1) snow condition and 2) moose density, were studied. Browsing pressure on Scots pine, the dominating food plant, was related to forage availability, moose density and snow condition. No significant relationships between any of the three explanatory variables and browsing pressure on the two birch species were found. Moose selection for certain habitats varied between years and was affected by number of days with > 0.10 m of snow. Habitat selection was not significantly related to moose density and the relationship between overall moose density and habitat specific moose densities was proportional within the studied density range. These findings have implications for understanding varying browsing patterns - and will affect both the ability to predict herbivores' effect on the forest ecosystem. A snow dependent browsing pattern also indicates that one can expect a long term decrease in browsing pressure on the tree and shrub layer as a consequence of the ongoing large-scale climate change.
3683386|Fragmentation of food resources is a major cause of species extinction. We tested the effects of habitat area, isolation and quality for the occurrence and population density of the endangered butterfly Polyommatus coridon. Polyommatus coridon larvae are monophagous on the plant Hippocrepis comosa, and both species are specialised on calcareous grassland, which is an endangered and highly fragmented habitat type in Germany. In 2001 we surveyed all known calcareous grasslands (n = 298) around the city of Gttingen (Germany) to map the population size of H. comosa in these habitats. Further, habitat isolation (between-patch distance: 70-7220 m) and habitat quality (cover of flowering plants, height of herb layer, percent bare ground, cover of shrub layer, wind protection, inclination) were quantified. Hippocrepis comosa occurred on only 124 fragments, which were then surveyed by 20 min transect counts for adult P. coridon in 2001 and 2002. Occurrence and population density of P. coridon were largely determined by the population size of its larval food plant, which was correlated with grassland area. Effects of habitat isolation and habitat quality on P. coridon populations contributed only little to the explanation. In conclusion, this monophagous habitat specialist depended on large habitats with large food plant populations to exist in viable populations. Habitat isolation and quality appear to contribute to occurrence and density patterns only in landscapes where these factors shift towards extremes, therefore general recommendations for conservation programs are difficult as they depend on regional distinctions.
30243135|Much can be learned about evolution from the identification of those factors maintaining polymorphisms in natural populations. One polymorphism that is only partially understood occurs in land snail species where individuals may coil clockwise or anti-clockwise. Theory shows that polymorphism in coiling direction should not persist yet species in several unrelated groups of land snails occur in stably polymorphic populations. A solution to this paradox may advance our understanding of evolution in general. Here, we examine two possible explanations: firstly, negative frequency-dependent selection due to predation; secondly, random fixation of alternative coiling morphs in tree-sized demes, giving the impression of wider polymorphism. We test these hypotheses by investigating morph-clustering of empty shells at two spatial scales in Amphidromus martensi populations in northern Borneo: the spatial structure of snail populations is relatively easy to estimate and this information may support one or other of the hypotheses under test. For the smaller scale we make novel use of a statistic previously used in botanical studies (the K-function statistic), which allows clustering of more than one morph to be simultaneously investigated at a range of scales and which we have corrected for anisotropy. We believe this method could be of more general use to ecologists. The results show that consistent clustering or separation of morphs cannot be clearly detected at any spatial scale and that predation is not frequency-dependent. Alternative explanations that do not require strong spatial structuring of the population may be needed, for instance ones involving a mechanism of selection actively maintaining the polymorphism.
3683735|Patch use theory predicts that herbivores perceive food as patches and spend more time in high quality patches, i.e. feeding sites providing a high net rate of intake of energy and/or limiting nutrients. The herbivores should accordingly not discriminate among food items in such high quality patches, and food items should thus be eaten in proportion to availability. In contrast, classical diet theory assumes food selection to take place at the level of individual plants, and predicts that the forager should concentrate on the most profitable item until availability drops below some critical threshold. Here we address how the spatial distribution of European aspen Populus tremula, a highly preferred browse species, affects the selectivity by moose Alces alces at the patch and the tree level. The study was performed in a managed boreal forest landscape in coastal northern Sweden, where aspen occurs highly aggregated almost exclusively in discrete patches. We compared moose selectivity for aspen and browsing intensity on aspen ramets and other browse species in aspen patches versus at randomly located sites. Random sites and aspen stands were utilised equally by moose in terms of overall use of forage. There was no difference in total coverage of forage species and relative moose density. Selectivity for aspen was stronger at random sites than at aspen sites, and the browsing intensity on aspen was similar. We conclude that moose did not perceive aspen stands as discrete patches, and used aspen ramets more in accordance with diet theory. These findings agree with the idea that large generalist herbivores strive to maintain a mixed and balanced diet, causing rare species to be over-utilised (negative frequency-dependent food selection). By such selective feeding, moose may reinforce the aggregated distribution of aspen in the managed boreal forest landscape.
20696281|We conducted a markreleaserecapture survey of a peatland dragonfly (Leucorrhinia hudsonica) in each of two years (2002; 2003) in a harvested forest landscape in western Newfoundland, Canada. The odds of an individual male moving between peatlands was influenced by both the distance between peatlands and the type of intervening habitat (the matrix). Specifically, at meso scales (> 700 m) there was a positive effect of the amount of cut matrix between peatlands on the odds of moving, but at fine scales (< 700 m) there was the opposite effect; proportionally fewer individuals moved between peatlands. The odds of moving out of a peatland decreased as the surface area of water in the peatland increased. Multi-state markrecapture models showed that the daily probability of a male moving between any two peatlands was 1.9% in 2002 and 6.9% in 2003 (n = 1527 and 1280 marked individuals). The results suggest that additional empirical studies that directly measure patterns of movement with respect to landscape structure at multiple spatial scales in other taxa and situations are needed in order to uncover other possible non-linear changes in behavior.
3683459|Although forest stands represent 47% of the total land area in Europe, alterations to the forest habitat through logging and plantation of exotic trees has led to significant changes in forest biocenoses. Due to their peculiar biology and life history, epiphytic bryophytes, which include a number of species of high conservation value, are especially concerned. Ordinal logit regression was used to test whether trends in diversity and abundance of obligate epiphytic bryophytes are explained by forest cover and spruce plantation and determine specific optima and degree of reliance to these factors at the landscape scale. Spruce plantations had a negative impact on both species diversity and abundance. Although large forest patches were important for a set of species exclusively or more frequently occurring under the forest cover, the abundance of a number of species previously identified as woodland bryophytes decreased or was uncorrelated with increasing forest cover. Furthermore, the species pool adapted to edge-related abiotic conditions was important. The global epiphytic diversity did consequently not decrease with decreasing forest cover at the landscape scale. If large forest patches are important for the conservation of a set of species exclusively or more frequently occurring under the forest cover, the conservation of epiphytic bryophytes thus also involves the conservation of pioneer trees in open landscapes. A series of management measures, which may help maximize the species diversity and probability of occurrence of key-species of high conservation interest, are proposed.
30243267|The relative contribution of compositional and structural heterogeneity on biodiversity is currently ambiguous because field studies generally integrate these two sources of habitat heterogeneity into a single index. We established the relationship between species richness of ground-dwelling and flying beetles and compositional and structural attributes of forest heterogeneity. The relationship was evaluated at two spatial scales: the scale of forest stand, corresponding to an 11.3 m radius, and the scale of landscape, corresponding to either a 400 or 800 m radius. Seventy stands were sampled in the matrix of old-growth boreal forest of the North Shore region of Qubec, Canada, during the summers of 2004 and 2005. A total of 133 ground-dwelling beetle species (range: 4-42 species per site) were captured in pitfall traps and 251 flying species (range 16-58 species per site) in flight-interception traps. We found that the most relevant type of heterogeneity to explain variations in species richness and the significance of landscape scale information varied between groups of beetles. Compositional heterogeneity (i.e. the number of species of forest trees and shrubs) at the stand scale best predicted species richness in ground-dwelling beetles. On the other hand, it was the combined influence of structural and compositional habitat heterogeneity at stand and landscape scales that best explained richness patterns in flying beetles. Our study outlines the significance of considering multiple types and spatial scales of habitat heterogeneity when describing patterns of species richness.
3683406|Elements of the landscape, such as patches of preferred habitat, matrix between patches, and corridors linking patches, differ as movement habitat for animals. To understand how landscape structure influences the movement and thus, population dynamics of animals, clear empirical knowledge on patterns of movement is needed. The Siberian flying squirrel inhabits spruce-dominated boreal forests from Finland to eastern Siberia. Numbers of flying squirrels have declined severely in Finland in past decades, probably due to modern forestry. We studied the movement of radio-collared adult flying squirrels in preferred (spruce forest) and in matrix habitat (open areas and other habitats with trees) in Finland 1997-2000, and determined whether the woodland strips connecting patches of preferred habitat could function as ecological corridors for flying squirrels. Flying squirrels used woodland strips for inter-patch movements, but also used matrix with trees and were able to cross narrow open gaps. Males moved longer total distances and crossed edges more often than females. Males used matrix habitats for movement between spruce patches, and moved faster and more directly in the matrix than in the spruce forest. Females seldom changed spruce patches, but instead used the matrix for foraging. For both sexes probability of leaving the spruce forest patch correlated negatively with the size of the patch, but the type of connection the patch had to other patches did not affect the leaving probability. Due to efficient movement abilities of the flying squirrel and forest-dominated landscape structure of southern Finland, we suggest that conservation acts for maintaining viable populations of flying squirrels should focus on the quality of managed forest and the area of suitable breeding habitat (i.e. on habitat loss), but not necessarily on ecological corridors.
3682782| Genetic and morphometric differences between island (land) and mainland (Sweden, Finland and Estonia) populations of five parthenogenetic and ecologically different Lumbricidae species were studied by means of enzyme electrophoresis and morphometric analysis. Affinities of clones to the mainland populations show that the postglacial rates of clone flow to land differ widely among species. In Octolasion cyaneum, the only clone found on land is not related to any of the studied clones from the nearby mainlands. The land population evidently originates from one long dispersal jump through human agency. The land clone pool of the anthropochorous Aporrectodea rosea is rich. As many as 98% of the worms and 82% of the clones belong to genotypes found in the mainland populations. land is an intergradation zone of A. rosea clones that have arrived from the west (Sweden) and from the east (Finland and Estonia). The more intense cultural connections to Sweden explain the higher clonal affinities that A. rosea in land shows to the west than to the east. There are not many Octolasion tyrtaeum clones on land. The few that are present are mainly clones also found on the mainlands. On land Eiseniella tetraedra has extensive diversity but low clonal affinities to the mainland populations. This also holds true for Dendrobaena octaedra but clonal affinities are on an average higher than in E. tetraedra. The land clone pool of D. octaedra shows more affinities to Finland than to the other mainlands. Probably the main factor that has facilitated D. octaedra clone flow from Finland is a continuous archipelago. In most species there are at least some clones that are more abundant on land than on the mainlands. They may have a wider niche in the island environment. The land populations of A. rosea, O. tyrtaeum and D. octaedra differed particularly in somatic traits from the mainland populations. The secondary reproductive traits of the parthenogens on land did not differ from the mainland populations. We conclude that except for O. cyaneum land has a role as a stepping stone island in the postglacial dispersal of parthenogenetic earthworms across the Baltic Sea. Different rates of flow by immigrant clones from the surrounding mainland populations have resulted in very dissimilar clone pool structures even on the same island. The land populations also show some morphometric differences to the mainland populations. 
30243112|To study the degree of edaphic specialization in Amazonian plants, the distribution patterns of seven species of Polybotrya ferns were studied in 109 sites in a climatically uniform area of northwestern Amazonia (Colombia, Ecuador and northern Peru). The two most abundant species of Polybotrya were found in about two-thirds of the sites with almost 7000 individuals each, the rarest species occurred in just one site with 40 individuals. Each of the seven species appeared to have a unique realised niche, when niche dimensions were defined by gradients in soil texture, soil cation content, and inundation. The species also differed in how broadly or narrowly they were distributed along each gradient. Some species were practically never found in the same sites, whereas others co-occurred with a high frequency, in spite of showing clearly different abundance patterns among sites. A single site only contains a small part of the edaphic variation present in the landscape, and a small proportion of any species' niche space, so broad-scale studies are needed to adequately describe and compare species' niches and to assess to what degree niche differences promote species coexistence. The distribution patterns in Polybotrya are consistent with, but do not prove, that ecological speciation may have been important in the radiation of the genus. If such a pattern is found to be common in other Amazonian plants, this would indicate that each evolutionary lineage has adapted to the available habitats largely independently of the others.
30243118|This work represents the first attempt to model the habitat-species relationships of a species of terrestrial tortoise on a large scale. We applied hierarchical variance partition methodology to Generalised Lineal Models (GLMs), with the presence of the tortoise in 1 km cells as the response variable. We posited the existence of a hierarchical scheme of factors (including climate, relief and lithology, and land-use) that determine the distribution of Testugo graeca in southeastern Spain. We also identified the environmental variables within each factor with the greatest explanatory power and decoupled local vs landscape effects. Climate, followed by relief and lithology, and then land-use, turned out to be the most important factor shaping the distribution of T. graeca in south-east Spain as well as determining the presence of the species within its range. Univariate models showed that the main climate constraints were related to rainfall and extreme minimum temperatures, two factors which could be related to constraints imposed by the length of the annual activity period and productivity. Finally, multi-scale decomposition suggested that neighbouring habitat and local dynamics may also be important in the distribution of the species at the landscape scale.
30243269|Considerable research has been devoted to understanding how plant invasions are influenced by properties of the native community and to the traits of exotic species that contribute to successful invasion. Studies of invasibility are common in successionally stable grasslands, but rare in recently disturbed or seral forests. We used 16 yr of species richness and abundance data from 1 m plots in a clearcut and burned forest in the Cascade Range of western Oregon to address the following questions: 1) is invasion success correlated with properties of the native community? Are correlations stronger among pools of functionally similar taxa (i.e. exotic and native annuals)? Do these relationships change over successional time? 2) Does exotic abundance increase with removal of potentially dominant native species? 3) Do the population dynamics of exotic and native species differ, suggesting that exotics are more successful colonists? Exotics were primarily annual and biennial species. Regardless of the measure of success (richness, cover, biomass, or density) or successional stage, most correlations between exotics and natives were non-significant. Exotic and native annuals showed positive correlations during mid-succession, but these were attributed to shared associations with bare ground rather than to direct biotic interactions. At peak abundance, neither cover nor density of exotics differed between controls and plots from which native, mid-successional dominants were removed. Tests comparing nine measures of population performance (representing the pace, magnitude, and duration of population growth) revealed no significant differences between native and exotic species. In this early successional system, local richness and abundance of exotics are not explained by properties of the native community, by the presence of dominant native species, or by superior colonizing ability among exotics species. Instead natives and exotics exhibit individualistic patterns of increase and decline suggesting similar sets of life-history traits leading to similar successional roles.
3682913|There have been few attempts to examine the relationship between mean seed production of populations and the environmental conditions experienced by these populations. This study uses redundancy analysis (RDA) to explore which environmental factors influence the patterns of inter-population variation in mean seed production (seed:ovule ratio and seed weight) and mean plant height in 25 alpine populations of Ranunculus acris L at Finse, southwestern Norway. The mean seed:ovule ratio and height of the plants differed more than three-fold among populations situated close to each other, whereas mean seed weight showed less variation. In two RDAs differences in site elevation and pH accounted for a substantial part of the among-population variation in mean plant height, seed:ovule ratio, and seed weight. Mean plant height and seed weight were negatively correlated with the altitude of the populations, whereas mean seed:ovule ratio showed a high positive correlation with pH. When pooling all data from the populations, simple linear regressions showed that seed weight was positively correlated with plant height, whereas plant height had little influence on seed:ovule ratio. Seed weight was positively correlated with the numbers of seeds that a flower produced. The results indicate that mean seed:ovule ratio of a population is influenced primarily by the pH-conditions at the site, whereas mean seed weight and plant height are more strongly influenced by altitude which largely reflects the climatic severity at the site. Inter-population variation in average reproductive success in R. acris at Finse appears to be determined by several environmental and intrinsic factors that interact in a complex fashion.
3683437| To assess the wolf-habitat relationship on the home range scale (i.e., third order selection), we developed a resource selection probability function (RSPF) through a multiple logistic regression model based on the winter travel routes of a wolf pack in the northern Apennines, Italy (1991-95). Both travel routes (240 km) and habitat variables were mapped at 1:10000 scale, digitised as Geographical Information System (GIS) layers, and overlaid with a 100  100 m pixel grid to census all used and unused resource units. Out of 15 covariates, the full model included 10 variables and 4 interaction terms. According to the model, travel routes by wolves were not randomly located within the home range but were clearly associated with selected bio-physical factors, including human-related habitat modifications (i.e., roads), which appeared to affect the wolves' resource selection and, ultimately, habitat quality. Using a jackknife procedure, the model correctly classified 73.1% of used resource units and 63.2% of unused resource units. A Monte Carlo test showed a non-significant effect on the model coefficients of 4 increasing sub-sampling levels of used resource units, suggesting that autocorrelation of snow-tracking data exerted little influence on the point estimates of the coefficients. However, given the increased standard error at higher sub-sampling levels, autocorrelation might have caused an underestimation of the theoretical variance. Although wolves are generally considered habitat generalists, this study shows that patterns of habitat selection are disclosed at finer scales of analysis. In this perspective, resource selection probability functions at finer scales offer different and complementary insight with respect to regional landscape applications, and provide a useful management tool for assessment of habitat quality at the local scale. 
3683516| To examine the importance of management practices and landscape structure on diversity of butterflies 16 farms with organic or conventional management were censused during 1997 and 1998. On each farm a transect route was walked during July and the beginning of August, six times in 1997 and five times in 1998. The farms were located in the central part of Sweden in two adjacent regions with the same pool of species. The organic and conventional farms were paired with help of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index according to land use to control for landscape structure on the farm level. On each farm calculations were made of large- and small-scale landscape heterogeneity with the help of GIS. A grid with a mesh size of 400 m was placed over each farm and the small-scale heterogeneity was calculated as the mean habitat diversity of four squares. The large-scale landscape heterogeneity described the landscape in which the farms were imbedded, and covered an area of 5  5 km. No differences in butterfly diversity, number of species or number of observations were noted between organic and conventional farms. Butterfly diversity was positively correlated with small-scale landscape heterogeneity while butterfly abundance was positively correlated with large-scale heterogeneity. Both large-scale and small-scale heterogeneity were important for the composition of species. The landscape structure seemed to be more important for butterfly diversity and species composition than the farming system in itself. 
3683142|Regression models were used to quantify the relationship between the amount of urban land and composition of local species pools. There was no evidence that urban land cover increases the richness of plant species, based on a survey of 785 2-km squares of which 157 had > 10% urban land cover. However, the number of alien plants is significantly higher in urban areas. Complete urbanization approximately doubles the proportion of alien species, and the proportion of aliens is twice as high in southern Britain as in the north. The flora of urban tetrads consists of ubiquitous native species and introduced species characteristic of waste ground, but woodland species are poorly represented. At the tetrad scale, enhanced dispersal by man is not the main factor for maintaining the urban flora; availability of urban habitats and high levels of disturbance are more important. The planned housing expansion to greenfield sites in Britain will increase the proportion of alien species, yet the majority of native species should persist in urban areas if existing woodland is preserved.
3682932| In southern Sweden there are regional gradients in the rate of atmospheric deposition of nitrogen, and the rate of N deposition has increased in recent decades. This may have caused a shift in the growth-limiting nutrient of Sphagnum growth from nitrogen to phosphorus. In this study, the influence of N and P concentrations on the decay of litter peat formed by Sphagnum magellanicum was examined. A total of 90 litter peat samples formed by this species was collected from 15 raised bogs (3 sites per bog; 2 microsites per site). Total N and P of samples were determined and the rate of decomposition ( CO
3683289| Effects of artificial warming on phenology, individual leaf traits, vegetative growth, and reproduction of five alpine species (two deciduous and three evergreen shrubs) were investigated during three years in the mid-latitude alpine, northern Japan. Eleven open-top chambers (OTCs) were set up on a fellfield (1680 m a.s.l.) in the Taisetsu Mountains by which air temperature at plant height was increased by ca 2C. Vaccinium uliginosum (deciduous shrub) showed earlier leaf emergence in every season and earlier flowering only in the first season in the OTCs. By contrast, acceleration of leaf emergence in the OTCs was not clear for other species, i.e. Arctous alpinus (deciduous shrub), Ledum palustre, V. vitis-idaea, and Empetrum nigrum (evergreen shrub). Both deciduous species showed longer leaf life-span in the OTCs every season. All evergreen species had higher leaf survival rates in the OTCs, indicating extension of leaf life-span. Leaf nitrogen concentration and leaf mass per unit leaf area (
30243218|We examined how the structure of a boreal forest landscape is related to the occurrence of the Siberian flying squirrel Pteromys volans in northern Finland. The flying squirrel inhabits mature spruce-dominated (Picea abies) mixed forests and is categorised as vulnerable species due to habitat loss and change. We classified a landscape of 374.5 km into potential habitat patches, potential dispersal areas, and areas incapable of being inhabited using national forest inventory data, and surveyed all 136 potential habitat patches for the presence of the species. Different landscape variables were defined, and also connections by the shortest distances to neighbouring habitat patches along both straight lines and least-cost distances based on specific movement costs were measured. Occupied patches were larger in size, contained more deciduous trees for food and nesting cavities, and were in closer proximity to the nearest occupied patches. Occupied patches were mainly located below 300 m a.s.l. The occurrence of flying squirrels was correctly predicted for 88% of the habitat patches using landscape variables. This modelling result proved to be rather general. In addition, the configuration of occupied patches was mainly clustered across the landscape, and distant occupied patches seemed to be linked to other patches via forested connections. We suggest that maintaining a clustered arrangement of good quality habitat patches and regenerating new potential habitat as well as dispersal areas between the habitat patches seem to be appropriate goals for long-term forest management planning to sustain populations of the flying squirrel in the landscape.
30244589|Landscapes available to birds to select for breeding locations are arrayed along multiple dimensions. Identifying the primary gradients structuring shrubsteppe bird communities in the western United States is important because widespread habitat loss and alteration are shifting the environmental template on which these birds depend. We integrated field habitat surveys, GIS coverages, and bird counts from 61 Breeding Bird Survey routes located in shrubsteppe habitats across a >800 000 km region to determine the gradients of habitat, topography, and geography underlying bird communities. A small set of habitat features dominated the primary environmental gradients in a canonical ordination; the 13 species in the shrubsteppe bird community were closely packed along the first two axes. Using hierarchical variance partitioning, we identified habitat as the most important pure (31% explained variation) or shared component. Topography (9%) and geography (4%) were minor components but each shared a larger contribution with habitat (habitat-topography 21%; habitat-geography 22%) in explaining the organization of the bird community. In a second tier partition of habitat structure, pure composition (% land cover) was more important (45%) than configuration (patch size and edge) (7%); the two components shared 27% of the explained variation in the bird community axes. Local (9%), community (14%), and landscape (10%) levels contributed equally. Adjacent organizational levels had a larger shared contribution (local-community 26%; community-landscape 27%) than more separated local-landscape levels (21%). Extensive conversion of shrubsteppe habitats to agriculture, exotic annual grasslands, or pinyon (Pinus spp.)-juniper (Juniperus spp.) woodlands is occurring along the primary axes of habitat structure. Because the shrubsteppe bird community was organized along short gradients dominated by habitat features, relatively small shifts in their available environment will exert a strong influence on these bird populations in the absence of buffering by alternative gradients.
30243198|Factors affecting territory size in wolves Canis lupus were studied at 2 scales, the local population (Biaowiea Primeval Forest (BPF), eastern Poland) and the geographic range of species (literature review from 14 localities in the Holarctic). Four packs of wolves were studied by radio-tracking in BPF from 1994 to 1999. The annual territories of packs (Minimum convex polygons with 95% of locations) averaged 201 km (SD 63, range 116-310). Core areas of territories (50% MCP) covered from 14 to 78 km (mean 35). Territory sizes and core areas both were negatively correlated to the encounter rates of ungulates (mean number of ungulates seen per unit time spent in the forest by human observers). Pack size (3-8 wolves) did not influence territory size. Home ranges of individual wolves from the same pack varied with season as well as the age, sex, and reproductive status of the wolf. Review of literature from North America and Europe (42-66N), showed that latitude and prey biomass were essential factors shaping the biogeographic variation in wolf territory size. Territories increased with latitude and declined with growing biomass of prey. The analysis showed that latitude acted partly independently of the south-north gradient in prey abundance. At similar standing crop of ungulate biomass (100 kg km ), wolf territories would average 140 km at 40N, 370 km at 50N, and 950 km at 60N. Pack size was larger at northern latitudes, but the increase did not keep pace with enlargement of territories. Within-territory density of wolves declined from 2.5-3 wolves 100 km at 40-45N to 0.7 wolves 100 km-2 at 600N. Our analyses documented similarities regarding the role of prey resources in shaping wolf territoriality at the different scales. Furthermore, a macroecological approach revealed additional factors affecting wolf territory size that were not emergent from knowledge of local population.
3683451|Null community is a spatio-temporal abstraction of an initial regional species pool from which local species pools and actual community assemblages are organized. Any process that causes joint responses of species with similar susceptibilities affects community assembly. Through time, sequential assembly processes change the composition of a species pool in a way analogous to the one in which evolutionary processes promote character changes from an ancestor to current species. The segregation of species occurrences in an actual community suggests that assembly processes non-randomly structured the observed community assemblages. However, going backwards to imply the causes of a particular arrangement of species is a non-trivial challenge. I merge these premises with the philosophical and methodological foundations of cladistics. I propound parsimony analysis of species co-occurrences as an outstanding means of devising operational hypotheses about the assembly of any non-randomly structured set of actual community assemblages related to a common species pool. To explore this approach, I used field data gathered in a suite of 10 wetland assemblages. First, I tested independence of 101 plant species occurrences by a null model. As significant non-random species co-occurrence was detected, I applied a parsimony analysis taking the species occurrences as attributes, the assemblages as terminal units, and a putative null community constituted by all the present local species as the root of the assembly suite. The analysis produced four most parsimonious trees of assembly relationships. These trees maximize the number of similarities among community assemblages that can be explained by the sole fact of sharing a common regional species pool. One most parsimonious spatio-temporal arrangement of species occurrence changes was reconstructed on one of the trees. I interpret this reconstruction in terms of assembly events, species exclusions and recruitments, showing the potentialities of this analysis to formulate operational hypotheses about community organization.
3683061|Both density dependent and density independent factors have been considered important determinants of the dynamics of ungulate populations. Intraspecific competition for food and the amount of snow cover were suggested in the past as factors that influence the demographic parameters of the chamois Rupicapra rupicapra. We present a 10 yr study on a closed population of the Italian Alps. Animals, divided by sex and age class (kid, yearling, subadult, adult, old), were counted over the period 1981-1990. The number of chamois hunted and the number of carcasses found each year and the daily snow height were also available. We investigated possible correlations between several demographic parameters and both snow cover and chamois density, accounting for sex- and age-differential mortality and a possible delay in density dependence. Results are as follows: a) there is no statistically significant correlation between snow cover and demographic rates; b) there is no detectable compensation between natural and hunting-related mortality; c) birth rate is density independent for any time delay; d) when calculated from carcasses, total mortality, mortality of 1-yr-old and older males and females significantly depend on total density with 2 years' lag, while kid mortality is not related to density for any time delay; e) when calculated from censuses, all mortality rates significantly depend on total density with 2 years' lag, although the variance explained by delayed density is definitely smaller for kids; f) nonlinear regression of kid mortality from censuses against density of kids in the same year yields a much higher coefficient of determination and inverse density dependence is evidenced. However, discrimination between delayed and inverse density dependence in kid mortality is impossible, given our dataset. In general, results support the hypothesis that intraspecific competition, epidemics and predation, rather than weather, play a role in the dynamics of this ungulate population.
30243280|Determining the effects of regional and contemporary factors on large-scale patterns in species richness has been a fundamental question in modern ecology and biogeography. However, few studies have examined effects of historical and regional factors on species richness at the global scale, and conclusions are often inconsistent or controversial. Here, I use a comprehensive dataset to examine regional effects on species richness of vascular plants and four taxa of terrestrial vertebrates (mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians) in the same set of sample units (ecoregions) in seven biogeographic realms across the globe. The same spatial scale and the same set of environmental variables, which are thought to influence large-scale patterns in species richness of vascular plants and terrestrial vertebrates, are used for all the five taxa. Species richness of each taxon is compared across biogeographic realms. Regional effect on species richness has been found for all the five taxa. Of the 90 realm-pair comparisons for the five taxa between observed richness of a region and the richness of the region predicted by the richness-environment relationship derived from the data of another region, 74 (82.2%) showed significant differences between observed and predicted species richness, indicating that a species richness-environment relationship developed for one region cannot accurately predict species richness in other regions of similar environments.
30244636|The estimation of levels of genetic variation has received considerable attention because it is generally thought to be indicative of overall species vitality and the potential for evolutionary responses to environmental changes. Here, we use allozymes markers and two distinct collections of Cakile maritima, an annual species from sandy coastal habitats (2000 generation and 2005 generation collected from 9 populations in their natural habitats), to assess the magnitude of expected genetic change. We compared genetic diversity between generations (all populations combined), and then between populations at each generation. Based on 13 loci scored from the eight enzymes examined, a high genetic diversity was detected at both the population and generation level as compared to other herbaceous species. However, allelic richness reduction in the 2005 generation suggested restricted gene flow and a high risk of future genetic bottlenecks, if larger tracts of coastal areas disappear. Most loci showed deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium due to excess of heterozygotes in all populations suggesting that this species has an allogamic mode of reproduction. It appears most likely that this species has experienced a recent decrease in population size, and that genetic drift in small populations has resulted in a loss of alleles occurring at low frequency. Despite the deterioration process, maintenance of high genetic diversity suggests that there are some ecological factors determining population structure.
3683702|In most groups of organisms, the species richness decreases from the tropics to the poles. The mechanisms causing this latitudinal diversity gradient are still controversial. We present data from a comprehensive weighted meta-analysis on the strength of the latitudinal gradient in relation to body size. We sampled literature data on the correlation between species richness and latitude for a variety of organisms, ranging from trees to protozoa. In addition, own data on the presence of large-scale diversity patterns for diatoms were included, both for local and regional species richness. The strength of the latitudinal gradient was positively correlated to the size of the organisms. Strongest decreases of species richness to the poles was found for large organisms like trees and vertebrates, whereas meiofauna, protozoa and diatoms showed weak or no correlations between species richness and latitude. These results imply that latitudinal gradients are shaped by non-equilibrium (regional) processes and are persistent under conditions of dispersal limitation.
3683771|We studied the flowering phenology of the genus Campanula (represented by nine species) along the elevation gradient of Mt Olympos (Greece) in order to assess whether there are elevation patterns at the genus level and whether these relate to patterns previously observed along such gradients at the community level. The traits examined were time and duration of the flowering period, flower life span, and duration of male and female flower phases. Floral attributes, such as number of flowers per plant, flower biomass, flower size, were also studied in order to examine whether they change with elevation or influence flower phenology. Flowering of Campanula species started in mid-May and ended in late September. The average duration of flowering of the genus was ca 27 d and the average floral longevity 4 d. In all but one species, the female phase lasted longer than the male. Campanula versicolor differed remarkably from all others in flower phenology and other floral traits. Nearly all Campanula populations studied had right or positively skewed flowering distributions indicating that flowering begins more abruptly than it ends. At the genus level, the time of flowering increased with elevation by 2-3 d for every 100 m. Floral longevity also increased with elevation, by 0.2 d for every 100 m. Neither duration of flowering nor duration of the flower phases showed any consistent change with elevation. The same is true of the non-phenological floral traits examined. No trade-off between duration of flowering and flower life span or between structure and maintenance of flowers was apparent. The pattern of increasing floral longevity along the elevation gradient suggests a mechanism of compensation for reduced pollinator availability.
30243174|Different components of biodiversity may vary independently of each other along environmental gradients giving insights into the mechanisms that regulate species coexistence. In particular, the functional diversity (FD) or the presence of rare or endemic species in natural assemblages do not necessarily increase with species diversity. We studied if different components of plant species diversity (species richness, Simpson diversity, evenness) varied similarly to FD (measured as a generalization of the Simpson index) and rarity along grazing intensity and climatic gradients. Plots under different sheep grazing regimes (high and low intensity, abandonment) were surveyed in five locations along a climatic gradient in north-eastern Spain, from semiarid lowland to moist upland locations. Variation in species diversity, functional diversity and rarity followed different patterns. Species diversity was lowest in water-stressed environments (arid locations and southern aspects) and increased with grazing more makedly in humid locations. The FD was comparable between the most speciespoor and species-rich locations and decreased with grazing in the moistest location, i.e. where species diversity markedly increased. The FD did not show a strong correlation with species richness nor with the Simpson index and less specious communities could show the highest functional diversity. The rarest species in the region were more frequently found in the abandoned areas, which held the lowest species diversity. Consequently, the mechanisms that enhance the diversity of species do not necessarily support a functional differentiation among those species or the maintenance of rare species in a region. We hypothesize that the degree of dependence of functional diversity on species diversity might be mostly related to the amplitude of the species' traits pool and on how species partition the niche space available.
3683010| The increase of peat mosses, Sphagnum spp., in acidified lakes leads to a changed microhabitat structure for benthic invertebrates. The importance of this change was investigated for some benthic invertebrates. Comparisons between quantitative samples of Sphagnum and debris within the acidified Lake Stora Hstevatten, in the Lake Grdsjn catchment of SW Sweden, showed significantly higher abundances of Chironomidae, Ceratopogonidae, Odonata, Trichoptera, Cladocera and Argyroneta aquatica (Araneae) in Sphagnum. For Chironomidae and Cladocera the differences were tenfold. Special reference was made to the libellulid Leucorrhinia dubia which is common in acid lakes. In a laboratory test, late instar larvae of L. dubia were shown to be able to change colour to correspond to the brown and green colour of Sphagnum. This result was completed with a field test where larvae of L. dubia were significantly more common in Sphagnum of the same colour as the larvae. The ability to change colour may have an adaptive value when coexisting with visual predators. Small larvae, 4-5 mm, were significantly more prevalent in Sphagnum and they also showed significant preference for this substrate in the laboratory test. For medium-sized larvae, 12-14 mm, a tendency to prefer Sphagnum was found in the laboratory test. Larvae of L. dubia were shown to be more successful as predators on Asellus aquaticus in Sphagnum substrate than in debris in the laboratory test. Laboratory predation tests with Notonecta glauca, Corixa dentipes, Acilius sulcatus, Hyphydrus ovatus and L. dubia showed that they could all feed on larvae of L. dubia. The complex habitat structure of Sphagnum is probably the reason for the high abundance of invertebrates since it may serve as both shelter against predation and as foraging sites. It is probably important as a key habitat for young instars of, for example, L. dubia. In lakes with large Sphagnum mats, L. dubia can coexist with fish. The expansion of Sphagnum due to acidification will probably benefit many acid-tolerant invertebrate species. 
3683773|The purpose of this investigation was to explore the determinants of vascular plant species richness for temporary, isolated wetland habitats which are influenced by hydrologic gradients and characterized by variation in habitat area. The dependent variables, total plant species richness and the number of obligate wetland species were analyzed consecutively. In regression analyses habitat area explained between 11 and 15% of the variation in the dependent variables. Habitat area was correlated with the heterogeneity of the hydroperiods between the upper and lower parts of the hydrologic gradients. In multivariate regression analyses, habitat heterogeneity accounted for 70-77% of the variation in the dependent variables, and habitat area did not have a significant impact. The results are most consistent with the habitat heterogeneity hypothesis. I therefore concluded that area is a surrogate variable for habitat heterogeneity which directly enhances vascular plant species diversity. There was no significant impact of isolation on species richness. The data suggest that the expanses of agricultural fields are not an effective barrier to the dispersal of the studied plant species. Only 10 of 52 wetland species were negatively influenced by isolation. This group of species did not differ from the other wetland species with respect to dispersal strategies and longevity of seed banks. However, the longevity of the seed banks was generally high, and there was a dominance of species whose propagules are transported with the soil clinging to the feet of birds. The results are discussed in the context of accurate dispersal strategies and remnant populations, which may counteract the effects of isolation.
3682848|There were about three-year cycles in the populations of arctic foxes, and the breeding productivities of brent geese and curlew sandpipers on the Taimyr Peninsula, Russia. The populations of arctic foxes and lemmings changed in synchrony. The breeding productivities of the birds tended to be good when the arctic foxes were increasing in numbers and poor when the arctic foxes were decreasing. There was a negative relationship between arctic fox numbers (or occupied lairs) and the breeding productivity of brent geese in the following year. Although there was evidence of wide-spread synchrony in the lemming cycle across the Taimyr Peninsula, some localities showed differences. However, such sites would still have been influenced by the general pattern of fox abundance in the typical tundra zone of the Taimyr Peninsula, where most of the arctic foxes breed and from which extensive movements of foxes occur after a decline in lemming numbers. The results support a prey-switching hypothesis (also known as the alternative prey hypothesis) whereby arctic foxes, and other predators, feed largely on lemmings when these are abundant or increasing, but switch to birds when the lemming population is small or declining. The relationships between arctic foxes, lemmings and brent geese may be further influenced by snowny owls which create fox-exclusion zones around their nests, thus providing safe nesting areas for the geese.
3683861| Comprehensive global studies of stream invertebrate assemblages are rare and have produced contradictory results. To address this shortcoming, we compiled data from 495 published estimates of local genera richness for three orders of stream-dwelling insects (Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera) from throughout the world and used these data to describe global geographic patterns in stream insect genera richness and to address two questions: 1) does local stream insect richness vary more with regional historical factors or with local ecological factors?, and 2) to what extent have streams converged in the number of taxa they support? Maximum genera richness varied sharply across the range of latitude examined from the south to north poles for all three orders of aquatic insects. Ephemeroptera richness showed 3 peaks (30S, 10N, and 40N) with highest richness near 5-10N and 40N latitude. Plecoptera richness was distinctly highest at 40N latitude with a similar peak at 40S latitude. Trichoptera richness showed less latitudinal variation than the other taxa but was slightly higher near the equator and at 40N and S latitude than at other latitudes. Genera richness generally declined with increasing elevation, except for Plecoptera. Maximum genera richness increased steadily with a measure of regional terrestrial net primary production and declined sharply with a measure of hydrologic disturbance for all orders. Richness varied widely among both biogeographical realms and biomes, although ca 2 times as much variation in richness was associated with biome as biogeographic realm. Richness for each order was highest in different biogeographic realms, but all orders had highest richness in broadleaf forest biomes. These latter results imply that spatial variation in local richness of stream insects is more strongly affected by contemporary ecological factors than by historical biogeography and that maintenance of intact forested landscapes may be critical to the conservation of stream invertebrate faunas. 
3682999|Many bird species were extirpated or became extinct when prehistoric man reached oceanic islands. We list > 200 species of extinct island birds only recorded as subfossils and which probably vanished due to prehistoric man. In addition, we list c. 160 cases where an extant species has been found as subfossil on islands where it no longer occurs. Several species, today considered endemic to single islands or island groups, had a much wider distribution in the past. Biogeographic analyses of insular avifaunas are almost meaningless if the extensive prehistoric extinctions are not taken into account. Most extinct species belong to Anatidae, Rallidae and Drepanididae while local extirpations are numerous among doves and seabirds. Smaller birds are rare, mainly due to sampling bias and taphonomic factors. The bird populations were depleted mainly by overhunting, predation by introduced vertebrates and alteration of the original vegetation. Prehistoric humans on islands, although dependent on limited animal resources, regularly failed to exploit these in a sustainable way. Several cases where human populations disappeared from islands in the Pacific may have been due to overexploitation of native animals. Prehistoric man reached most tropical and temperate islands, and most of the few remaining island faunas have been severely depleted in historic times. The prehistoric extinctions emphasize the extreme vulnerability and value of the very few pristine island faunas that still remain.
3683362|The seasonal distribution of reproductive phases in female otters and the recruitment of cubs were studied by using information from carcasses collected along the central and northern coast of Norway. Relationships between available prey and female body condition were investigated. Conception, parturition and rearing of cubs, at least up to the age of 5-6 months, occurred successfully at all times of the year. However, the main birth peak occurred in summer and autumn. The frequency of all phases of the breeding cycle, from follicle enlargement to early stages of cub rearing, varied consistently between seasons. Food availability when the cubs were c. 2 months old, and energetic demands on the female assumed to be greatest, was probably the main ultimate cause of the seasonal variation in the recruitment of cubs. Intrauterine mortality, possibly due to the seasonal variation in body condition of females, and loss of litters, may have been important mechanisms in creating the seasonal recruitment patterns. Although the prey biomass on average showed seasonal variation, the peak season shifted among years and locations. It is argued that the availability of suitable prey for otters tend to be unrelated to the seasonal productivity in aquatic environments, due to species-specific growth and behavior of prey and restrictions on the hunting capability of otters. Continuous reproduction with seasonal variation in birth rates may have been maintained by selection for reproductive riskreduction in a nutritionally unpredictable, although generally seasonal, environment.
3683803|We studied the space use of the Siberian flying squirrel in fragmented forest landscapes in southern Finland in 1996-1999. Twenty-four adult males and 23 adult females were radio tracked in three different study areas. The use of different landscape elements by flying squirrels was compared to their availability using compositional analysis. Effects of fragmentation on flying squirrels were studied by comparing the use of different habitat types, number of used patches, and size of home range to the principal components formed from the landscape variables patch size, patch isolation, area of spruce-dominated forests, and area of other habitats with trees. Flying squirrels preferred spruce- and deciduous-dominated forests, but other habitats with trees were also used for moving and foraging. These less preferred habitats connected spruce and deciduous forest patches in a matrix of open areas. Males used several separate patches of preferred habitat, but females usually stayed in one patch. The spacing behaviour of males was affected by the structure of the landscape in a way that home ranges were larger and males used more spruce patches in the more highly fragmented landscape. Home-range size of females was not affected by the landscape structure. Basically, the space use of males seemed to be reflected by the location and number of female home ranges. In the study area where female density was high, the home ranges of males were small. Our results give empirical evidence of the effects of habitat loss and landscape connectivity for the Siberian flying squirrel and the implications of these for the conservation of the species.
3682975|Edge effects encompass a complex panoply of biotic and abiotic phenomena across woodland borders. I identify four main explanations which have been proposed to explain avian habitat selection with respect to forest edges: 1) individualistic resource and patch use, 2) biotic interactions; 3) microclimate modification and 4) changes in vegetation structure. 1) relates nest site location in woodlands relative to the edge to the proximity of food resources. It is shown that, all other things being equal, birds which are wholly dependent on resources found within woodlands will tend to avoid forest edges. Woodland species dependent upon resources found in adjacent habitats will tend to be found near to edges to enable their exploitation. 2) identifies competition, predation and brood parasitism as factors which have the potential to influence bird habitat selection near edges. 3) identifies microclimate modification as a potential influence which may act directly on nesting success or indirectly through its effects on food supply; 4) relates the activities of birds, such as nesting, feeding or use of song posts, to vegetation structure and/or floristic composition at the edge. Research on edge effects of birds in woodland has provided few practical recommendations to conservation managers. Forest edge management needs to take into account the multiple cause and effects which influence habitat selection at the edge and to target species of conservation concern.
3682758|We used data from the Finnish wildlife triangle censuses (1989-92) to test the prediction that the reproductive success of ground-nesting bird species is lowered in forest landscapes fragmented by the occurrence of agricultural land, presumably as a consequence of increased densities of generalist predators. Our study was based on 201 wildlife triangles located in central Finland (total length 2412 km). As expected, the proportion of black grouse hens with a brood in August decreased relative to the increasing proportion of agricultural land in a landscape (100 km
3683632| Analyses of spatial and temporal patterns of the small mammal cycle in Fennoscandia have led to two main conclusions: a south-north geographical gradient in the strength of density dependence and period length, and a change in temporal dynamics with less clear periodicity and lower amplitude of fluctuations in recent years. Fourteen years (1985-1998) of small mammals trapping and Tengmalm's owls monitoring data provided clear evidence for 3-yr cycles of two vole species in inner Troms, north Norway, at the same latitude and only 80 km from Kilpisjrvi, north Finland, where 4-5yr cycles have been the norm until the end of 1980s. The response of Tengmalm's owls to variation in small rodents abundance was not delayed, as was observed in central Finland. Common shrews appeared to have more stable dynamics. The features of the cycle, and a reassessment of the previously described patterns, show that the dynamics may be different over short distances. Furthermore, snow cover and habitat fragmentation should explicitly be taken into account in any understanding of the Fennoscandian gradient, and surrogate variables such as latitude should be avoided. We stress the need for a more extensive coverage of spatial and temporal patterns in cyclicity with respect to assumed ecological causes. 
3682933|The Scandinavian birches have different distribution patterns. Betula pendula reaches its upper tree limit at the bottom of the valleys in the Scandes, while B. pubescens ssp. pubescens extends above the B. pendula limit, and merges into B. pubescens ssp. tortuosa at higher elevations. In a 6 yr study, I quantified the spatial and temporal variation in the reproduction of these species along a regional altitudinal gradient. Betula pendula showed a steeper altitudinal decrease of seed germinability and seed germination rate than B. pubescens coll. Seed weight was strongly and positively correlated with altitude for B. pubescens, but not for B. pendula. The proportion of seeds infected by gall midges, Semudobia coll., was much higher in B. pendula than in B. pubescens coll., especially in the mountain area. All birch taxa showed large annual variations in quantity and quality of seeds. The sapling density was higher in B. pubescens ssp. pubescens stands than in B. pendula and B. pubescens ssp. tortuosa stands in the mountains. The vegetative reproduction was about three times higher for B. pubescens ssp. tortuosa, than for the other two birches. These results indicate that the altitudinal variation in reproduction among the birch taxa mirror their present distribution patterns.
3683864|Data collected from three different polluted sites in the vicinity of a phosphate fertilizer factory that was closed in 1990 are used to test with Mantel tests and smoothing techniques whether the rapid increase of plant species richness following cessation of pollution enhanced associated arthropod assemblage diversity. 132 plant species (between 1990 and 1999) and 66 413 individuals of 680 arthropod species (using sweep net sampling between 1990 and 1996) were recorded. Using top soil pH as a representative pollution parameter we detected an increase of plant species richness, effective diversity and evenness of plant community with decreasing pH both in space and time. While the richness of all studied functional groups of herbivores increased with plant species richness, only the richness of one carnivore functional group showed a similar pattern. Plant species richness was significantly correlated to the abundance patterns of two herbivore and two carnivore groups. But contrary to theoretical predictions consumer abundance tended to decrease with increasing plant diversity only between a plant species richness range of 10 to ca 35. Our results support the findings of previous studies that highlight how increased plant species and functional group richness may result in higher herbivore species richness, and that carnivore richness may be influenced by herbivore and detritivore richness. The functional group approach used in this study has enabled us to detected the very individual interaction patterns that occur between different groups within the same trophic level.
3683587| Traditionally mire ecosystems (especially bogs) have been viewed as stable systems with slow changes in the vegetation over time. In this study the mire khultmyren, south-central Sweden was re-investigated in 1997 after 40 yr of continued natural development. The results show a high degree of dynamics in a Sphagnum dominated bog and fen. Altogether 97 vascular plant and bryophyte species were recorded in the two inventories of the bog and poor fen vegetation. pH and electrical conductivity in the mire water were also surveyed. In 1997 we found 10 new species and that 8 species had disappeared since 1954 but the over-all mean number of species per plot (size
3683452|Analysing invasive spread from a landscape ecological perspective forms an important challenge in plant invasion ecology. The present study examines the effects of landscape structure on the spatial and temporal dynamics of an expanding black cherry Prunus serotina population within a rural landscape in Flanders, Belgium, carrying a dense network of interconnected hedgerows. The study area, 251 ha in size, harboured a total of 2962 P. serotina individuals. The population was characterised by a negative exponential age distribution, a high growth rate and an early and continuous reproduction throughout the species' life cycle. The historical rate of spread of the species through the hedgerow network progressively increased with time, especially during the last decade. Spatial point pattern analysis revealed that the individuals had a significantly clustered distribution pattern and were spatially aggregated around seed sources, hedgerow intersections and roosting trees. Logistic regression analysis confirmed the effect of landscape structure on P. serotina occurrence, suggesting directional long distance dispersal by avian dispersal vectors, resulting in a differential seed pressure throughout the hedgerow network due to the preference of dispersing birds for roosting in structurally rich hedgerow with large trees near hedgerow intersections. Hence, the distribution of P. serotina in agricultural landscapes was strongly mediated by dispersal processes. Furthermore, decreasing spatial aggregation along the species life cycle, with especially seedlings and saplings being significantly aggregated while adult individuals were mostly distributed at random, and a relative outward shift of seedling recruitment curves with time indicate density dependent mortality, probably caused by intraspecific competition.
3683236|To understand the reasons for population change we need to understand the mechanisms through which it occurs. Throughout western Europe there have been declines in farmland birds. These declines have been paralleled by major changes in agricultural management, which have resulted in major changes in habitat structure. This paper describes the habitat selection at two scales (within and between fields) of a number of seed-eating farmland birds. Habitat preferences for most species were related to the density of seeds present, which differed markedly between habitats. Seed density declined with distance from hedgerow in cultivated fields but not stubble fields. Yellowhammers were restricted to foraging close to hedgerows, whilst skylarks foraged in the center of fields, but moved closer towards the edges as the winter progressed and seed densities declined. This work has clear consequences for agricultural management and the conservation of declining bird populations.
3683676|The estimation of spatial autocorrelation in spatially- and temporally-referenced data is fundamental to understanding an organism's population biology. I used four sets of census field data, and developed an idealized space-time dynamic system, to study the behavior of spatial autocorrelation estimates when a practical method of sampling is employed. Estimates were made using both a classical geostatistical approach and a recently developed non-parametric approach. In field data, the estimate of the local spatial autocorrelation (i.e. autocorrelation as the distance between pairs of sampling points approaches 0), was greatly affected by sample size, while the range of spatial dependence (i.e. the distance at which the autocorrelation becomes negligible) was fairly stable. Similar patterns were seen in the theoretical system, as well as greater variability in local spatial autocorrelation during the invasion stage of colonization. When sampling for the purposes of quantifying spatial patterns, improved estimates of spatial autocorrelation may be obtained by increasing the number of pairs of points that are close in space at the expense of attempting to cover the entire region of interest with equidistant sampling points. Also, results from the theoretical space-time system suggested that greater resolution in sampling may be required in newly establishing populations relative to those already established.
30243136|Complex interactions such as interference competition and predation, including intraguild predation, are now recognized as important components in animal community structure. At the lower end of a guild, weasels may be highly affected by other guild members due to small body size in relation to other predators. In 2000 and 2001, we radio-collared 24 ermines Mustela erminea and 25 long-tailed weasels M. frenata in 2 areas that differed in abundance of guild members. We tested the hypothesis that when faced with an increased density of other guild members, weasels would modify space and habitat use to reduce the risk of predation associated with encounters involving guild members. We predicted that weasels would increase use of specific habitats (such as refuges) to reduce encounter rates in the presence of a greater number of guild members. Because M. erminea is smaller than M. frenata and thus better able to take advantage of small rodent burrows as refuges from predators and as feeding grounds, we also predicted that M. fenata would show a stronger response to a higher abundance of guild members than M. erminea. Results were consistent with our predictions. Faced with an increased abundance of guild members, M. Jienata showed increased habitat selectivity and reduced activity levels, which resulted in increased daily travel distances and increased home ranges. Mustela erminea responded to an increased abundance of guild members through reduced use of preferred habitat which M. frenata already occupied. The contrasting pattern of habitat selection observed between the 2 mustelid species suggested cascading effects, whereby large-predator pressure on M. frenata relaxed pressure of M. frenata on M. erminea. Our results draw attention to the likelihood that competitive intraguild interactions play a facilitating role in M. erminea-M. frenata coexistence.
3683323|An attempt to improve the food base for brown trout Salmo trutta in Northern Ireland was made in 1958/59 by deliberately introducing English Gammarus pulex into several Irish rivers. In addition, another amphipod Crangonyx pseudogracilis, was later accidently introduced into Irish waters. Our study represents the first attempt to examine the trophic interactions between a native fish predator (S. trutta) and an array of these native (Gammarus duebeni celticus) and introduced (G. pulex and C. pseudogracilis) amphipods. Feeding experiments, involving young brown trout predators and amphipod prey, revealed that the fish actively selected C. pseudogracilis relative to two alternative Gammarus prey species. Although the trout encountered the Gammarus species more than C. pseudogracilis, they were eaten less than Crangonyx. Difficulties in handling and ingestion of Gammarus by trout may be a key component of the preference for the smaller, more easily handled Crangonyx. The microdistribution of the species was altered by the fish, due to predation being greater in particular microhabitats. Our study showed that the introduction of the herbivorous C. pseudogracilis into Irish freshwaters may represent a useful addition to fish diets, particularly for small and/or juvenile fish. The repercussions of the deliberate introduction of G. pulex are less clear. It may improve feeding for fish, but only if it can coexist with indigenous macroinvertebrates and thus ultimately improve the range and quantity of possible food items in predator diets. Alternatively, being highly predatory towards other macroinvertebrates including G. d. celticus and C. pseudogracilis, G. pulex may be deleterious to the diversity of the resident benthic community and hence reduce the diversity of prey available to fish predators.
3683191|A field survey on two former peat harvesting sites of similar successional age revealed a marked difference in species composition and a 30-fold difference in biomass of the established vegetation. Based on this observation, a field experiment in which the substrate was changed between sites was conducted to examine whether the differences in revegetation were mainly a consequence of differences in seed supply or in substrate quality. After three growing seasons, a many hundred-fold difference in plant biomass existed between the transplanted and control plots with the same substrate, but only a small difference between the plots with a different substrate within the site. Biological activity in the substrate of the slowly revegetating site (site 1) increased when transported to the more rapidly revegetating site (site 2), while the opposite was true when substrate from site 2 was transported to site 1. The sites differed in the rate of N mineralization, and particularly in nitrification. Despite the differences in substrate quality between the two sites, seed supply appeared to be the major factor controlling colonization. The impact of the soil factors on plant establishment was, however, considered to be large enough to act as an additional controlling factor.
3683036|We develop a simple mathematical model to investigate the question as to whether a specialised consumer can be responsible for creating a range limit in the population of its dynamic resource. The model is most attuned for parasitoid-host relationships, but the central results should apply to a broad range of systems. Specifically, at the beginning of each simulation host and parasitoid populations are distributed at random along a string of patches. In each discrete generation and for each patch, host and parasitoid populations grow and interact, and then a constant fraction of those remaining disperses one or more patch distances in either direction according to a geometric distribution. We iterate the model 200 generations, and in any generation for any patch, either host and/or parasitoid can go locally extinct if its population falls below a threshold density. We find that a specialised parasitoid can enforce a limit, and it is even more likely to fragment its host population. The two most important conditions for parasitoid-enforced range limits are: 1) the theoretical host equilibrium density in the presence of the parasitoid be very small at sites eliminated from the host's range, and 2) the parasitoid disperses at high rates. We close by discussing our findings for specialist and generalist natural enemies, and the relevance of our study to the wealth of investigations on the causes of geographical range limits.
3683211|No other group of insects have been more successful in colonizing marine habitats than water striders and their allies (Heteroptera, Gerromorpha). More than 10% of the 1700 species of gerromorphan bugs are marine. Water striders have colonized the marine environment at least 14 times. The fossil records suggest that marine habitats were invaded by members of the families Veliidae and Gerridae earlier than 20-30 and 45 million years before present, respectively. Estuaries and mangrove swamps are undoubtedly the ancestral type of habitat, but water striders have diversified further in marine habitats including the surface of the open ocean (sea skaters, Halobates). Except for being obligatorily flightless, marine water striders are structurally very similar to their non-marine relatives. Physiological and behavioral rather than morphological specializations are likely to have been key innovations in the transition from limnic to marine habitats. The oldest and most species-rich clades originated in the Indo-West Pacific region. There are 3.5 times as many species of marine water striders in the Indo-West Pacific region than in the Atlantic/Caribbean/East Pacific region. This "diversity anomaly" is explained historically by region-specific differences in the origin and proliferation of clades, in paleoclimate and paleogeography, and in the propensity for dispersal between regions.
3682841|The aim of this paper was to assess which components of landscape structure in lowland English farmland could best predict patterns in bird community composition, total bird density and densities of 12 bird species. As far as possible, predictors were sought that were consistent in their effects over a 20 yr period. The data were derived from mapping censuses in 1966, 1970, 1974, 1978, 1982 and 1986 with yearly sample sizes ranging from 41 to 51 plots, of minimum size 50 ha. Landscape composition was quantified in terms of 10 landscape variables representing broad structural (e.g. density of woodland) and crop attributes (e.g. proportion of area under cereals) plus altitude. Gradients in bird community composition were defined as plot scores on axis 1 of a detrended correspondence analysis (AXIS1). This gradient consistently represented a gradient from plots rich in woodland bird species to ones rich in field-feeding and wetland species. Multiple regression was used to build models containing 2-, 3- and 4-variables. Two approaches were used to combine data from the six years and models based on the single best subset in each year were found to be most consistent with respect to predictor selection. Predictors were tested by building models based on each combination of five years and assessing how well the predictors explained variation in the bird variables for the sixth, independent year. The predictors were relatively successful in explaining variations in densities of wren, robin, willow warbler, blue tit, great tit and chaffinch but especially AXIS1 which was explained in terms of woodland density, field size and altitude. The predictors were unsuccessful in explaining total bird density, song thrush density and whitethroat density. Structural attributes of landscape (especially density of hedgerow and woodland, but also rivers and ponds) were frequent predictors of species densities, but variables relating to farming system were not, with the exception of skylark and yellowhammer which were positively associated with extent of cereal crops. Implications for landscape design and management, and the relative contribution of woodland and hedgerows to bird communities in farmland landscapes are discussed. There was considerable variation between individual years which suggests that models of bird-habitat relationships based on single years may have limited general application.
3683325|This study investigated the extent to which the reproductive success of plants of Erythronium dens-canis (Liliaceae), a spring herb of mountain habitats, is dependent on floral morphology. To this end, a series of studies was performed in an area in northwest Spain. The results show that E. dens-canis plants in this area a) are self-compatible, b) need pollinator visits (largely Bombus terrestris and Andrena spp.) to produce seed, and c) show high fruit set under natural conditions. Only 20% of among-plant variance in floral morphology variables was explained by variation in plant size. Floral morphology variables (outer tepal length, stamen length, style length and ovule number) tend to vary in parallel, indicating the existence of an "integrated floral phenotype". Two floral morphology variables (initial number of ovules and outer tepal length) had statistically significant or near-significant effects on seed production. A more detailed experimental analysis indicated that small-flowered plants produce fewer seeds than large-flowered plants, and that this is attributable to less efficient pollination of small flowers. The results of this study thus suggest that among-plant variation in floral morphology in E. dens-canis has implications for reproductive success.
3683321|Transformation of data to normality may be illuminating and useful statistically. There are two standard families of transformations, power transformations for positive numbers, bounded at the left, and folded transformations for proportions, bounded both at the left and the right. It has been shown that there is no one satisfactory power transformation for range size data. However, such measures are limited to the right as well as the left, and we consider applying folded transformations to them. Seven data sets of range sizes recorded by 10 km squares are studied. Six are British (native and introduced plants, mammals, dragonflies and two breeding bird surveys) the seventh is of Swiss breeding birds. Using these we show that the right hand limit of the distribution can be estimated and the best folded transformation found. In all cases the right hand limit is larger than the range size of the most widespread species and smaller than the notional scope of the survey. In all cases the logit or flog, the logarithmic folded transformation, is satisfactory; in five cases it is the best. It is well known that abundance is approximately (though not exactly) log-normally distributed. The relationship of that to our discovery that range size data are approximately logit-normal is discussed. There is no fully satisfactory explanation for either observation at present.
30243250|Clustering of multivariate data is a commonly used technique in ecology, and many approaches to clustering are available. The results from a clustering algorithm are uncertain, but few clustering approaches explicitly acknowledge this uncertainty. One exception is Bayesian mixture modelling, which treats all results probabilistically, and allows comparison of multiple plausible classifications of the same data set. We used this method, implemented in the AutoClass program, to classify catchments (watersheds) in the Murray Darling Basin (MDB), Australia, based on their physiographic characteristics (e.g. slope, rainfall, lithology). The most likely classification found nine classes of catchments. Members of each class were aggregated geographically within the MDB. Rainfall and slope were the two most important variables that defined classes. The secondmost likely classification was very similar to the first, but had one fewer class. Increasing the nominal uncertainty of continuous data resulted in a most likely classification with five classes, which were again aggregated geographically. Membership probabilities suggested that a small number of cases could be members of either of two classes. Such cases were located on the edges of groups of catchments that belonged to one class, with a group belonging to the second-most likely class adjacent. A comparison of the Bayesian approach to a distancebased deterministic method showed that the Bayesian mixture model produced solutions that were more spatially cohesive and intuitively appealing. The probabilistic presentation of results from the Bayesian classification allows richer interpretation, including decisions on how to treat cases that are intermediate between two or more classes, and whether to consider more than one classification. The explicit consideration and presentation of uncertainty makes this approach useful for ecological investigations, where both data and expectations are often highly uncertain.
30244598|Several indices have been created to measure diversity, and the most frequently used are the Shannon-Wiener (H) and Simpson (D) indices along with the number of species (S) and evenness (E). Controversies about which index should be used are common in literature. However, a generalized entropy (Tsallis entropy) has the potential to solve part of these problems. Here we explore a family of diversity indices ( $S_{q}$ ; where q is the Tsallis index) and evenness $(E_{q})$ , based on Tsallis entropy that incorporates the most used indices. It approaches S when q = 0, H when q  1 and gives D when q = 2. In general, varying the value of the Tsallis index (q), $S_{q}$ varies from emphasis on species richness (q < 1) to emphasis on dominance (q > 1). Similarly, Eq also works as a tool to investigate diversity. In particular, for a given community, its minimum value represents the maximum deviation from homogeneity $(E_{q}=1)$ for a particular q (herein named q*). It is remarkable that our analysis indicates that q* and its corresponding evenness, $E_{q*}$ , are negatively affected by S when using simulated data. They may represent an index related to species rarity. Furthermore, $S_{q*}$ (i.e. the value of $S_{q}$ for a specific q*) is positively affected by richness that is an important property of any diversity index. In general, our findings indicate that the indices H, D, S, $S_{q*}$ , E and Eq. are only part of a whole set of possibilities. In addition, the ecological properties of $E_{q*}$ . and $S_{q*}$ , proposed here for the first time, show promise in ecology.
3683009|Site occupancy of migrating and breeding icterine warblers was studied with respect to unoccupied randomly chosen sites in a willow and poplar mixed forest along the river Danube in Hungary. Multivariate discriminant analysis revealed 4 different zones in the ordination diagram: exclusive breeding zone, exclusive migrating zone, overlapping zone, and an unused zone. They were separated according to foliage cover and tree height. Tree species composition mostly affects habitat use through physiognomy. There was a partially overlapping, but clear difference in habitat selection between the migrating and the breeding birds.
3683104|The risk of cuckoo Cuculus canorus parasitism for great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus nests was evaluated in respect to nest and nest site structure in the reedbeds along canals in central Hungary. In total 90 nests were analysed, from which 31 remained unparasitised, 37 were single parasitised and 22 multiple parasitised. Multiple discriminant analysis, based on eight structural variables, separated well the unparasitised clutches from the cases of single and multiple parasitism, but the latter two categories also showed a weaker separation. Nests close to cuckoo vantage points are most vulnerable to parasitism. The variable "distance from nest to closest available cuckoo perch site" (tree or electric wire) played the most important role in the risk of parasitism. It showed highly significant differences among the groups: lowest distances were found in the case of multiple parasitism, and the highest distances were measured when nests remained unparasitised. Additionally, "nest visibility" also showed significant differences among the three groups: a more visible nest is more likely to be parasitised. Risk of parasitism affects on the host on two levels: 1) female cuckoos search for nest-building hosts from a perch site, but 2) when they are in the act of parasitism, they can find more visible nests in the reed. Besides the robust effects of the variables "distance to cuckoo perch site" and "nest visibility", the variable "distance from nest to open water" may reduce, but "nest volume" increases the risk of multiple parasitism. Differences between cases of single and multiple parasitism are weak, mainly affected by chance. We explain it by the high abundance of the cuckoo, the parasitism rate was 65.6% (59/90). Cuckoos parasitised almost all of the available nests in the close vicinity of potential perch sites. There was no evidence that great reed warblers nested closer to each other when risk of parasitism was high.
3683195|Densities of microtine rodents in two habitat complexes in the tundra of Finnmarksvidda, Norwegian Lapland, were studied during 1977-89 by means of snap trapping (Small Quadrat Method). Predator populations were studied by mapping breeding raptors and by snow-tracking small mustelids. During 1977-85, snow-tracking was conducted only during peak and decline years, whereas during 1986-89, snow-tracking was conducted every winter (November-December) and live-trapping (in August) was used as an additional method. Lowland vole populations had regular density fluctuations with peaks in 1978-79, 1982-84 and 1987-88. Highland vole populations fluctuated less regularly and at lower over-all densities. Highland lemming populations had two outbreaks, in 1978 and 1988, ending in abrupt winter crashes. In the lowland, outbreak levels were reached only in 1978. All microtine declines in relatively productive lowland habitats were accompanied by intense activity of small mustelids, whereas avian predators were common only in 1983. Lowland declines also showed clear between-habitat asynchrony: they started in areas with an exceptional abundance of productive habitats and then spread to more barren areas. These lowland data are consistent with the hypothesis of a mustelid-microtine limit cycle, although also several other hypotheses remain unrefuted. The highland lemming data suggest a simple exploiter-victim interaction between lemmings and the vegetation.
3683218|Year-to-year turnover in bird species composition was recorded across the whole size range (0.02-30 ha) of 146 woods studied. The mean number of resident breeding species both lost and gained per wood between consecutive breeding seasons was 2 (range 0-8). No relationship was found between this absolute turnover rate and woodland area, or any other of 24 predictor variables (describing woodland structure, isolation, connectedness and surrounding land use). Extinction and colonisation rates (in terms of numbers of species lost and gained) were also unrelated to woodland area. In all sizes of woods, the species most likely to show local extinctions and colonisations were those with small populations within those woods, but the identity of the species concerned changed as woodland area increased. In the smallest woods, the majority of turnover involved common species, such as wren and dunnock, which occurred in only small numbers in these small woods. As woodland area increased, these species attained sufficient numbers to usually avoid stochastic extinction. The majority of turnover was then due to more specialist (and less numerous) woodland species, such as great-spotted woodpecker and marsh tit, which were usually lacking in small woods. In Britain, much existing broadleaved woodland falls within the size range studied. Thus the numbers of many bird species are liable to be small enough for yearly turnover in woodland bird communities to be appreciable, and for the long-term persistence of individual species in particular woods to depend on dispersal.
30243165|Understanding the interactive effects of multiple keystone species where they co-occur may have important consequences for regional biodiversity. Additionally, understanding how the impacts of keystone species vary across different ecosystems is important for effectively guiding conservation and management. We conducted a largescale field study in northern Mexico where the geographic distributions of black-tailed prairie dogs Cynomys ludovicianus and banner-tailed kangaroo rats Dipodomys spectabilis overlap. These species are considered both keystones and ecosystem engineers of grassland environments, but little is known about their separate and interacting roles in desertified systems where they co-occur. Our research evaluated 1) the independent impacts of black-tailed prairie dogs and banner-tailed kangaroo rats in a desertified annual grassland, and 2) their interactive effects on grassland community structure and biodiversity. Prairie dogs and kangaroo rats differentially affected vegetation structure, plant cover, species composition, and species richness across multiple spatial and temporal scales. The interactive effects of these keystone species resulted in enhanced landscape heterogeneity and biodiversity. Our results demonstrate the importance of prairie dogs and kangaroo rats in desertified grasslands, and have important implications for understanding the interactive effects and context-dependency of keystone species.
20696303|Prediction maps produced by species distribution models (SDMs) influence decision-making in resource management or designation of land in conservation planning. Many studies have compared the prediction accuracy of different SDM modeling methods, but few have quantified the similarity among prediction maps. There has also been little systematic exploration of how the relative importance of different predictor variables varies among model types and affects map similarity. Our objective was to expand the evaluation of SDM performance for 45 plant species in southern California to better understand how map predictions vary among model types, and to explain what factors may affect spatial correspondence, including the selection and relative importance of different environmental variables. Four types of models were tested. Correlation among maps was highest between generalized linear models (GLMs) and generalized additive models (GAMs) and lowest between classification trees and GAMs or GLMs. Correlation between Random Forests (RFs) and GAMs was the same as between RFs and classification trees. Spatial correspondence among maps was influenced the most by model prediction accuracy (AUC) and species prevalence; map correspondence was highest when accuracy was high and prevalence was intermediate (average prevalence for all species was 0.124). Species functional type and the selection of climate variables also influenced map correspondence. For most (but not all) species, climate variables were more important than terrain or soil in predicting their distributions. Environmental variable selection varied according to modeling method, but the largest differences were between RFs and GLMs or GAMs. Although prediction accuracy was equal for GLMs, GAMs, and RFs, the differences in spatial predictions suggest that it may be important to evaluate the results of more than one model to estimate the range of spatial uncertainty before making planning decisions based on map outputs. This may be particularly important if models have low accuracy or if species prevalence is not intermediate.
3683423|The amount of aspen Populus tremula, has declined in the boreal forest landscape. This decline is especially marked in young and intermediate stands due to the lack of regeneration. Aspen regeneration is nowadays mainly restricted to abandoned agricultural land. The decrease of aspen is of particular concern as it has more host-specific species than any other boreal tree species. The main question addressed is whether regenerating aspen stands in agricultural habitats can compensate for the deficiency of young stands in the forest. Data on epiphytic macrolichens show that cyanolichens increased, in number and frequency, with stand age in the forest landscape, and that there was a striking difference in species composition between stands in the two landscapes. Lichens with cyanobacterial and green-algal photobionts dominated in the forest and agricultural stands, respectively. Notably, cyanolichens were not found in stands younger than 50 yr in the forest, and stands younger than 100 yr in the agricultural landscape. This difference between the landscapes cannot be explained by stand age, stand size or isolation. Instead, differences in habitat quality, due to differences in the physical environment associated with the presence of conifers in the older forest stands, appear to be involved. We suggest that in order to conserve cyanolichens that are confined to aspen, active management practices have to be adopted that promote the regeneration of aspen in the forest landscape, and the establishment of conifers in areas where aspen regeneration is confined to the agricultural landscape. In addition, until new aspen stands with appropriate physical environments have been established, these measures must be combined with the preservation of existing old-growth stands, which can provide appropriate source populations.
30243139|In hilly boreal landscapes topography governs groundwater flow which strongly influences soil development, and thus vegetation composition. Soil pH is known to correlate well with plant species density and composition, but in boreal forests this relationship has been little studied. Previously, we successfully used a topography-based hydrological index, the topographical wetness index (TWI), as an approximation of the variation in groundwater flow to predict local plant species density in a boreal forest landscape. Data on species indicator values demonstrated that soil pH can be an important soil variable linking groundwater flow and plant species density. In the present paper we explore this link by relating measured soil pH to species numbers of vascular plants and TWI in 200-m plots within two boreal forest landscapes, differing in average soil pH. The two landscapes showed almost identical relationships between plant species number and soil pH, implying that this relationship is robust. The landscapes also had similar relationships between soil pH and TWI as well as between plant species number and TWI except at high TWI values, which indicate groundwater discharge areas. In these areas, soil pH and plant species numbers were higher in the high-pH landscape at any given TWI value. We conclude that for predictive mapping of the species density of vascular plants in boreal forests, soil pH is a major factor. However, TWI as a measure of groundwater flow is a practical alternative predictor.
3683850|Transforming the results of species distribution modelling from probabilities of or suitabilities for species occurrence to presences/absences needs a specific threshold. Even though there are many approaches to determining thresholds, there is no comparative study. In this paper, twelve approaches were compared using two species in Europe and artificial neural networks, and the modelling results were assessed using four indices: sensitivity, specificity, overall prediction success and Cohen's kappa statistic. The results show that prevalence approach, average predicted probability/suitability approach, and three sensitivity-specificity-combined approaches, including sensitivity-specificity sum maximization approach, sensitivity-specificity equality approach and the approach based on the shortest distance to the top-left corner (0,1) in ROC plot, are the good ones. The commonly used kappa maximization approach is not as good as the afore-mentioned ones, and the fixed threshold approach is the worst one. We also recommend using datasets with prevalence of 50% to build models if possible since most optimization criteria might be satisfied or nearly satisfied at the same time, and therefore it's easier to find optimal thresholds in this situation.
30244590|The species-area relationship (SAR) between different biological provinces is one of the most interesting, but least explored aspects of the well-known species-area pattern. Following the usage that a biological province is a region whose species have for the most part evolved within it, rather than immigrating from somewhere else, we propose that islands can be considered equivalent to biological provinces for single island endemic species (SIEs). Hence, analyses of the relationships between numbers of SIEs and island area can be used as model systems to explore the form of interprovincial SARs. We analyzed 13 different data sets derived from 11 sources, using the power (log-log) model. Eleven of the SIE-area relationships were statistically significant, explaining high proportions of the variance in SIE numbers (R 0.57-0.95). The z-values (slopes) of the statistically significant SIE-area relationships ranged from 0.47 to 1.13, with a mean value of 0.80 (SD0.24). All the island systems in which SIE represent >50% of species exhibited z-values for the SARs of native species higher than those deemed typical of archipelagic SARs. The SIE-area slopes are quite similar to those previously calculated for inter-provincial SARs, indicating that, when speciation becomes the dominant process adding to the species richness of assemblages, high z-values should be anticipated, regardless of the biogeographical scale of the study system.
30243151|Long-distance seed dispersal may have important consequences for species range, migration rates, metapopulation dynamics, and gene flow. Plants have evolved various adaptations for seed dispersal by standard agents, with typical dispersal distances associated with them. Seeds may also be dispersed by non-standard agents for which they do not show any apparent adaptation and may reach long distances. By sampling the droppings of emus Dromaius novaehollandiae at three localities in Western Australia, we investigated their potential to act as long-distance dispersers of seeds with adaptations for dispersal modes other than endozoochory, such as unassisted, ant, wind and exozoochory, for which they act as non-standard agents. Seventy-seven plant species with five types of dispersal syndromes were found in the 112 droppings analysed, with at least 68 having viable seeds. Although endozoochory was the most frequent syndrome, the presence of other syndromes was important in terms of number of species (61%) and seeds (50%). Estimates of species richness indicated that an increase in sampling effort would increase the number of species observed, especially among non-endozoochores. As a consequence of their long gut retention times and high mobility, emus can provide long-distance dispersal opportunities that may be especially relevant for species with dispersal modes of typically short distances (unassisted, ant). Our results suggest that the role of emus as non-standard agents for long-distance dispersal should be taken into account for understanding current geographic ranges, gene flow and metapopulation dynamics of some plant species, as well as for predicting their future responses to climate change and fragmentation.
3683818|Savanna regions may contain significant areas of forest, usually in riparian environments. We described forest composition and quantified environmental variables for 80 plots in the watershed of the Yucao River (<tex-math>$2550\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>), a tributary to the Meta River (Orinoco basin) in the eastern plains of Colombia. The total sampled area of 3.2 ha contained 147 tree species (110 genera and 45 families) with diameter at breast height >5 cm. The families represented by most species were Leguminosae (15 species), Arecaceae (11 species), Rubiaceae (9), Chrysobalanaceae (7), Euphorbiaceae (7), Melastomataceae (7) and Myrtaceae (7). Although most of the tree species have wide distribution ranges in humid neotropical forests, and few are endemic to the region, comparison with other neotropical forests suggests that the combination of taxa is characteristic for neotropical gallery forests. Cluster analysis allowed the definition of five forest types. They show important differences in a number of environmental variables, especially those related to inundation regimes and soil properties. Canonical correspondence analysis indicates good correlation of the first ordination axis with the size of the stream with which the forest is associated, the height to which the water rises during floods and variables related to soil fertility. The second ordination axis differentiates between soils with high or low water content in the dry season, high or low organic matter content and low or high bulk density. The results demonstrate the role of spatial variability and interactions of floodplain morphology, hydrological regime, and soil properties in structuring this important riparian community.
30243272|We examined the structure of ectoparasitic bat fly infestations on 31 well-sampled bat species, representing 4 Neotropical families. Sample sizes varied from 22 to 1057 bats per species, and bat species were infested by 4 to 27 bat fly species. Individual bats supported smaller infracommunities (the set of parasites co-occurring on an individual host), ranging from 1 to 5 fly species in size, and no bat species had more than 6 bat fly species characteristically associated with it (its primary fly species). Nestedness analyses used system temperature (BINMATNEST algorithm) because it is particularly well-suited for analysis of interaction networks, where parasite records may be nested among hosts and host individuals simultaneously nested among parasites. Most species exhibited very low system temperatures (mean 3.14; range 0.1412.28). Simulations showed that nested structure for all 31 species was significantly stronger than simulated values under 2 of the 3 null hypotheses, and about half the species were also nested under the more stringent conditions of the third null hypothesis. Yet this structure disappears when analyses are restricted to "primary" associations of fly species (flies on their customary host species), which exclude records thought to be atypical, transient, or potential contaminants. Despite comprising a small fraction of total parasite records, such anomalies represent a considerable part of the statistical statespace, offering the illusion of significant ecological structure. Only well understood and well documented systems can make distinctions between primary and other occurrence records. Generally, nestedness appears best developed in hostparasite systems where infestations are long-term and accumulate over time. Dynamic, short-term infestations by highly mobile parasites like bat flies may appear to be nested, but such structure is better understood in terms of host specificity and accidental occurrences than in terms of prevalence, persistence, or hierarchical niche relations of the flies.
3682884|The feeding ecology of Greenland white-fronted geese Anser albifrons flavirostris was studied during spring staging in Iceland 1997. Geese feeding on Poa pratense dominated hayfields (> 80% cover) were highly selective, selecting for Deschampsia caespitosa which comprised only 10% of the sward. Geese fed most on the south-facing fringes of Deschampsia tussocks. Subsequent analysis showed that the southern fringes of Deschampsia tussocks supported significantly greater biomass (27% greater mass of green material) and that leaves growing on the southern faces had significantly higher protein content than those on the northern faces (33.9% vs 30.5%). It appears that the geese maximise their nutritional intake in spring by selecting the grass species of highest quality and taking the most nutritious parts of the plants.
3682886|Woody plant richness across southern Africa was analysed and related to climate-based water-energy dynamics. The analyses, which were based on an equal-area grid system, were undertaken at the genus and family levels and compared with results previously obtained at the species level. In all cases, climate accounts for most of the variation in richness (74-79%), with richness being a linear function of liquid water and a parabolic function of energy. There is some variation in the particulars of climate's relationship to richness between the three taxonomic levels considered. But, the overall similarity of the outcomes at all three taxonomic levels supports the view that independent and predictable geographic variation in water-energy dynamics exerts a first-order control on the realised distributional ranges, and thus richness, of surviving and evolving taxa.
3683301| Muskrats Ondatra zibethicus were studied at Old Crow flats, Yukon Territory (6805N, 14005W) and Tiny Marsh, Ontario (4435N, 7952W) during the summers of 1985 and 1986. Life-history traits of these two populations were compared. Litter size was not significantly different between the two sites. However, average annual productivity was significantly greater at Tiny Marsh, where individuals produced more litters per season. Growth rates of juvenile and adult muskrats were significantly greater at Tiny Marsh, as was juvenile and adult weight. However, overwinter survival of juvenile muskrats was significantly greater at Old Crow than at Tiny Marsh. We suggest that the shorter growing season and proximate energetic limitations on growth and reproduction favour a conservative reproductive strategy by the northern muskrat population. For the southern muskrat population, a long growing season and high quality food resources allow for a more productive reproductive strategy. 
3683170| We asked whether differences in abundance and seed production of Brachypodium pinnatum after 16 yr of four different experimental land use regimes were reflected in differences in vegetative dispersal distance, clone diversity, clone area, and the proportions of sexual and vegetative recruitment. Mean vegetative dispersal distance was
3683219|Thirteen study sites were selected to cover the dominant vegetation types on the plateaux of three summits in the North Pennines, England. The spider community of these sites were sampled by pitfall trapping between April and October 1991. Several environmental variables were collected for each site, including local topography, soil characteristics and vegetation structure. Multivariate methods were used to classify the sites based on their spider species composition. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to assess the influence of the external factors on the distribution of the species. The results suggest that vegetation density is the major factor influencing spider distribution on the summit plateaux with slope and soil depth also contributing to the variation. Three spider associations for the plateaux are proposed based on their common species composition. Two short Festuca grassland assemblages and a Nardus/Eriophorum spp. assemblage associated with higher vegetation density. The habitat preferences of some species common to the plateaux are discussed in light of the results, and comparisons are made with studies from other upland areas.
3683552|We studied the rates of seed removal by different granivores, in different microsites, at different times, in a Patagonian shrub steppe in South America. Granivory rates of exotic (Phalaris canariensis) and native (Mulinum spinosum) seed species were an order of magnitude lower than those reported for another cool desert from North America with comparable climatic conditions. Insects and rodents removed the greatest amount of seeds in comparison to birds. In general, there were no differences in seed removal across microsites, except at one sampling time (when rodents and insects removed more seeds from bare soil and beside tussocks in comparison to positions beside shrubs, while birds took similar amounts of seeds from all microsites). The length of the experiment differentially affected the granivory rate of different groups. Removal rates (per day) were significantly greater, and exhibited lower variability, when seeds were left for a longer period of time in the field (a month) than for a few days. Insects were more efficient at finding the seeds rapidly and rodents at depleting them; birds could not find or deplete many seeds in short periods of time. Rates of granivory decreased slightly but significantly as the summer progressed mainly due to a reduction of seed removal by birds and rodents but not by insects. Granivores removed an order of magnitude less native seeds than exotic seeds. These differences seemed to be related to palatability as M. spinosum seeds have more phenols, toxic concentrations of iron and copper, and lower dry matter digestibility, phosphorous, and nitrogen content, in comparison to P. canariensis seeds.
3683733| Using original and literature data on species richness, I compared the species-area relations for 5 different size classes of the Arctic benthos: macrofauna sensu lato, polychaetes, nematodes, ciliates and diatom algae. The data pool covered a wide range of areas from single samples to the whole seas. Both the slopes and intercepts of the curves depended significantly on the logarithm of the mean body size of the group. The number of small species (ciliates and diatom algae) showed relatively higher local diversity but increased more slowly with the area than the number of larger ones. Thus, both - and -components of species diversity of the marine benthos were size-dependent. As a consequence, the actual relations between number of species and their physical size are spatially scale-dependent: there are many more species of smaller size classes in any one local community, but at a global scope the situation changes drastically. The possible reasons are discussed, including dispersal efficiency, rates of speciation and size-dependent perception of environmental heterogeneity. Body size is suggested to be the important scaling factor in manifestation of so-called "general ecological laws". 
3683422|In a small, circular high-altitude karst lake situated in the northeastern calcareous Alps of Austria the copepod Arctodiaptomus alpinus (Imhof) develops each spring from resting eggs after the lake basin fills in early spring. After mid-summer, late developmental stages and adults concentrate in a thin layer near the sediment throughout the lake basin. During daytime an average 86% and 71% of female and male copepods respectively resided near the bottom. Males exhibited stronger diel vertical migrations than females and part of the population concentrated in near-surface water at night, but the majority of copepods remained at the sediment during darkness. Macro-photographs and core samples revealed that the proportion of epibenthic male A. alpinus decreased constantly from >70% in 3 m depth to <20% below the 8-m isobath. The proportion of ovigerous females increased with depth, whereas non-ovigerous females were comparatively more abundant in shallow water. Concurrently the highest frequencies of copulating copepods were detected in areas of high male density. Above the 3-m isobath male A. alpinus formed dense swarms in scattered patches of the macrophyte Ranunculus eradicatus <latex>$(>93\%\ \text{males};\ \text{maximum abundance}\colon \ 362600\ \text{individuals}\ {\rm m}^{-2})$</latex>. Adults and larvae of the alpine newt Triturus alpestris are the top predators in this fishless alpine lake, and A. alpinus constitutes a major component of their diet. However, predator densities and different predation rates on male and female copepods were not sufficient to explain the observed horizontal distribution of A. alpinus. We argue that the optimization of successful sexual encounters in copepods is the ultimate driving force behind this segregation of both sexes of A. alpinus ('mate encounter hypothesis').
30244632|Rapid evolutionary adjustments to novel environments may contribute to the successful spread of invasive species, and can lead to niche shifts making range dynamics unpredictable. These effects might be intensified by artificial selection in the course of breeding efforts, since many successful plant invaders were deliberately introduced and cultivated as ornamentals. We hypothesized that the invasion success of Buddleja davidii, the ornamental butterfly bush, is facilitated by local adaptation to minimum temperatures and thus, exhibits unpredictable range dynamics. To assess the potential effects of adaptive evolution and artificial selection on the spread of B. davidii, we combined a common garden experiment investigating local adaptation to frost, with ecological niche modelling of the species' native and invasive ranges. We expected that populations naturalized in sub-continental climate are less susceptible to frost than populations from oceanic climate, and that the invasive range does not match predictions based on climatic data from the native range. Indeed, we revealed significant variation among invasive B. davidii populations in frost resistance. However, frost hardiness was not related to geographic location or climatic variables of the populations' home site, suggesting that invasive B. davidii populations are not locally adapted to minimum temperatures. This is in line with results of our ecological niche model that did not detect a niche shift between the species' native range in China, and its invasive range in Europe and North America. Furthermore, our niche model showed that the potential invasive range of B. davidii is still not completely occupied. Together with the frost resistance data obtained in our experiment, the results indicate that climatic conditions are currently not limiting the further spread of the species in Europe and North America.
20696305|Spatial requirements of species have often been related to body size, usually focusing on one area variable and one taxonomic group at a time. Here, we carried out a quantitative meta-analysis and developed a minimal model, covering different types of spatial characteristics and several species groups. In a global literature review, 46 empirical regressions on home ranges and geographic ranges were collected, covering thousands of species monitored in various countries. In addition, regional data on minimum key population patches of 167 species occurring in the Netherlands were retrieved from reports. To check consistency, a theoretical model was derived from rate and density variables based on energy equivalency. The minimum number of individuals needed to sustain a viable population was considered invariant to size. According to the equations, areas were expected to scale to mass with an exponent of 1 for the individual home range and of about  for the minimum population ranges. The meta-analysis of the empirical regressions showed that average slopes for individual home ranges were between 0.74 for cold-blooded species and 1.05 for birds and mammals. Minimum and average species geographic range scaled to mass with exponents of 1.16-1.29 and 0.28-0.46 respectively. Allometric correlations for the minimum key patch area were weak. The intercepts indicated that carnivores require more space than equally sized herbivores, while homeotherms occupy larger areas than heterotherms. Observed slopes and intercepts were often near model estimations, but important deviations from the average level were noted as well, especially for birds. Although variability was substantial in some cases, allometric approaches can contribute considerably to understanding and protecting area requirements of species.
3682819| Some have suggested that the periodic outbreaks of the forest tent caterpillar, Malacosoma disstria are triggered by weather: the temperature at the time of early larval feeding, and overwintering temperatures. To assess the role of these factors, defoliation maps, compiled annually from flight surveys for the province of Ontario, were compared to similarly scaled temperature records. An analysis of the year to year variation shows no relationship between the pattern of increases or declines in defoliation and either temperatures during early larval development, or overwintering temperatures. Four periods of defoliation by forest tent caterpillars were observed in Ontario over 41 yr, but at individual sites extensive defoliation did not occur for each of the outbreak periods. Defoliation was less severe in regions with low overwintering temperatures, but was not related to the average number of degree days in the early spring. Outbreaks were most common in areas where deciduous forests were extensive, and the mean overwintering temperatures were above -40C. While these weather variables do not apparently explain the details of population dynamics of forest tent caterpillars, extreme weather conditions might synchronize populations. 
3683477|The aggregation model of coexistence states that species coexistence is facilitated if interspecific aggregation is reduced relative to intraspecific aggregation. We investigated the relationship between intraspecific and interspecific aggregation in 17 component communities (the flea assemblage of a host population) of fleas parasitic on small mammals and hypothesized that interspecific interactions should be reduced relative to intraspecific interactions, facilitating species coexistence. We predicted that the reduction of the level of interspecific aggregation in relation to the level of intraspecific aggregation would be positively correlated with total flea abundance and species richness of flea assemblages. We also expected that the higher degree of facilitation of flea coexistence would be affected by host parameters such as body mass, basal metabolic rate (BMR) and depth and complexity of burrows. Results of this study supported the aggregation model of coexistence and demonstrated that, in general, a) conspecific fleas were aggregated across their hosts; b) flea assemblages were not dominated by negative interspecific interactions; and c) the level of interspecific aggregation in flea assemblages was reduced in relation to the level of intraspecific aggregation. Intraspecific aggregation tended to be correlated positively to body mass, burrow complexity and mass-independent BMR of a host. Positive interspecific associations of fleas tended to occur more frequently in species-rich flea assemblages and/or in larger hosts possessing deep complex burrows. Intraspecific aggregation increased relative to interspecific aggregation when species richness of flea infracommunities (the flea assemblage of a host individual) and component communities increased. We conclude that the pattern of flea coexistence is related both to the structure of flea communities and affinities of host species.
30243178|Spatial autocorrelation in species' distributions has been recognized as inflating the probability of a type I error in hypotheses tests, causing biases in variable selection, and violating the assumption of independence of error terms in models such as correlation or regression. However, it remains unclear whether these problems occur at all spatial resolutions and extents, and under which conditions spatially explicit modeling techniques are superior. Our goal was to determine whether spatial models were superior at large extents and across many different species. In addition, we investigated the importance of purely spatial effects in distribution patterns relative to the variation that could be explained through environmental conditions. We studied distribution patterns of 108 bird species in the conterminous United States using ten years of data from the Breeding Bird Survey. We compared the performance of spatially explicit regression models with non-spatial regression models using Akaike's information criterion. In addition, we partitioned the variance in species distributions into an environmental, a pure spatial and a shared component. The spatially-explicit conditional autoregressive regression models strongly outperformed the ordinary least squares regression models. In addition, partialling out the spatial component underlying the species' distributions showed that an average of 17% of the explained variation could be attributed to purely spatial effects independent of the spatial autocorrelation induced by the underlying environmental variables. We concluded that location in the range and neighborhood play an important role in the distribution of species. Spatially explicit models are expected to yield better predictions especially for mobile species such as birds, even in coarse-grained models with a large extent.
3683231|For the maintenance of biodiversity some epiphytic macrolichens have been used to identify forests with high conservation value. To understand what these macrolichens indicate, we studied the relationships of tree species and age with the abundance of a set of 33 macrolichens (20 of them in use as indicator species) at 90 localities in a 150 km
3682974|Correlations between environment and tree alpha-diversity in New Zealand's primary forests were examined using an extensive quantitative dataset (14 540 plots). Generalised additive models were used to examine relationships between species richness and temperature, solar radiation, root-zone moisture deficit, relative humidity, lithology, drainage, and plot size for all trees (112 species), and separately for broadleaved trees (88 species), conifers (17), and the genus Nothofagus (4). Diversity both for all tree species and for broadleaved trees was predicted to be highest on sites with high temperatures, high solar radiation, and high soil and atmospheric moisture, and on sedimentary and basaltic substrates. Highest conifer diversity was predicted on sites with intermediate temperatures, low solar radiation, high root-zone and atmospheric moisture, and rhyolitic and Quaternary substrates, particularly where drainage was impeded. Highest Nothofagus diversity was predicted for sites combining low temperatures, high solar radiation, high root-zone moisture but low atmospheric moisture, and on granitic substrates. Differences in diversity between the species groups on different lithologies are interpreted as reflecting both the effects of variation in large-scale disturbance histories, and the effects of confounding environmental factors associated with particular substrates. There were also significant interactions between species groups: both broadleaved tree and conifer richness were predicted to be lower on sites where one or more Nothofagus spp. - all of which have marked patchiness in their distribution - are present. Although these results are consistent with the hypothesis that tree diversity is highest on sites conducive to high productivity, history is also indicated as an important determinant of tree diversity in New Zealand.
3682837|In the moist tropical forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panama, the distribution of three epiphytic bromeliads growing on the host tree species Annona glabra was studied with respect to size of the epiphyte, substrate height, diameter, branch inclination and position relative to the periphery of the crown. There were significant interspecific differences for almost all environmental variables, but there were no size-related changes in distribution patterns. The results suggest that a safe germination site is also a potential growing site for mature plants, and that mortality does not correlate with any of the measured parameters.
3683522|Habitat preference of eagle owls Bubo bubo were examined through comparing habitat composition around 51 occupied cliffs and 36 non-occupied cliffs in Alicante (E Spain). We employed Generalized Linear Models to examine patterns of habitat preference at three different spatial scales: nest site
3683433|In order to study the ecological effects of logging combined with mechanical soil preparation, we sampled carabid beetles with pitfall trapping in nine spruce-dominated stands in central Finland in 1995-1998. Three of the stands were left intact as controls. Three
3683448|Urban areas have been considered "safe zones" for nesting birds because of low abundance of predators, and consequently low predation pressure. We studied risk of artificial ground nest predation across an urban gradient at regional (100  100 km) and local scales (5  5 km, within town) in Finland, Italy, and Spain. Risk of nest predation differed between countries, being greatest in Spain (66%), intermediate in Finland (51%), and lowest in Italy (29%). At the regional scale, risk of nest predation in Finland was lower in small villages and in forest area than in more urbanized sites. In Spain, the risk of nest predation was lower in villages than in the other habitat types. No differences in nest predation risk among habitat types were observed in Italy. At the local level, the risk of nest predation in Finland was higher within the town than in the surrounding forest. In Spain, the risk of nest predation in the surrounding forest area was as high as in the most urbanized areas. No difference in nest predation risk was observed between study plots in Italy at the local level analysis. Our results indicate that nest predation in town centers and their residential areas is similar to or higher than in villages and forest areas refuting the safe nesting zone hypothesis. Risk of nest predation also differed between residential area types within towns. Moreover, the abundance of potential nest predators differed between countries. Magpies and crows were more abundant in Finland than in Italy and Spain, whereas cats, dogs and pedestrians were less abundant in Finland than in the other countries. In Finland, risk of nest predation increased with the abundance of magpies. In Italy and Spain, risk of nest predation increased with the number of pedestrians and in Italy also with the number of cats. In all countries, the risk of nest predation increased with the visibility of the nest. According to our results, urban areas cannot be seen as "safe nesting zones". Actually, changes in nest predation pressure may cause changes in habitat selection patterns and affect bird community structure in urban environments.
3683660|In many areas of ecology there is an increasing emphasis on spatial relationships. Often ecologists are interested in new ways of analyzing data with the objective of quantifying spatial patterns, and in designing surveys and experiments in light of the recognition that there may be underlying spatial pattern in biotic responses. In doing so, ecologists have adopted a number of widely different techniques and approaches derived from different schools of thought, and from other scientific disciplines. While the adaptation of a diverse array of statistical approaches and methodologies for the analysis of spatial data has yielded considerable insight into various ecological problems, this diversity of approaches has sometimes impeded communication and retarded more rapid progress in this emergent area. Many of these different statistical methods provide similar information about spatial characteristics, but the differences among these methods make it difficult to compare the results of studies that employ contrasting approaches. The papers in this mini-series explore possible areas of agreement and synthesis between a diversity of approaches to spatial analysis in ecology.
3683672|Rangeland utilization for livestock production in central Argentina has apparently resulted in the replacement of preferred mid-grasses (Poa ligularis and Stipa clarazii) by preferred short-grasses (Piptochaetium napostaense and Stipa tenuis) and avoided grasses (Stipa tenuissima and Stipa eriostachya). However, the botanical composition in the pristine condition is unknown due to the lack of historical data and relict areas. The objective of this study was to analyze soil phytolith assemblages from a representative site of central Argentina rangelands to test the presumed floristic changes. Soil phytolith assemblages (SPAs) were compared with three plant phytolith assemblages (PPAs), each of it made up of two species. One PPA was integrated by the preferred mid-grasses P. ligularis and S. clarazii, another by the preferred short-grasses P. napostaense and S. tenuis, and a third one by the avoided grasses S. eriostachya and S. tenuissima. For each PPA, the proportion of species representing the best fit with SPAs was estimated by considering all possible lineal combinations between the phytolith assemblage of the two integrating species, and selecting that representing the minimum distance to SPA. The highest degree of similarity between SPAs and PPAs corresponded to the PPA integrated by P. ligularis and S. clarazii. Our results support the hypothesis of the dominance of preferred mid-grasses in the pristine condition in rangelands of central Argentina, and that a shift towards the dominance of preferred short-grasses and avoided grasses has occurred in its present disturbed condition.
3683161|The population fluctuations of Eurasian red squirrel Sciurus vulgaris during ten winters showed a strong relation to Norway spruce Picea abies cone crop one year before. Neither, Scots pine Pinus sylvestris cone crop nor mean temperature in December and January had an additional significant effect on the fluctuations. The one-year time-lag between the good spruce cone crop and increased red squirrel density suggests that the rich food supply first increase the winter survival and then the reproductive success. The highest density-index of red squirrels was found in old forest dominated by Norway spruce (mean density-index
3683260| This paper examines the first appearance of butterflies using two sources; historical data from the former phenological reports of the Royal Meteorological Society and recent data from the extant Butterfly Monitoring Scheme. Using regression techniques mean dates of appearance are related to Manley's central England temperatures and are then examined for other, unexplained, trends over time. The observed relationships suggest that, in the absence of evolutionary change, climate warming of the order of 3C could advance butterfly appearance by two to three weeks. The flowering of two of the larval foodplants of the orange tip butterfly is also examined, with the conclusion that synchrony is likely to be maintained by a similar advance in timing. The consequences of such changes to the phenology of British butterflies are discussed. 
3683128|Seasonal changes in in vitro dry matter digestibility (IVDMD) of five forage classes (browses, sedges, forbs, ferns and the bark of Ulmus spp.) used by wapiti and roe deer were determined in relation to chemical composition, using the two-stage technique of in vitro trial with rumen inocula from one wapiti and one roe deer captured in winter. Wapiti and roe deer showed remarkable fluctuation in IVDMD among seasons and forage classes. IVDMD decreased from 43.8-64.3% in spring to 29.4-40.5% in winter for wapiti, and from 52.4-77.4% in spring to 25.9-36.5% in winter for roe deer. There was significant variation in IVDMD among species of browses for wapiti and roe deer. IVDMD ranged from 28.5% to 58.7% in twigs and from 39.8% to 58.2% in leaves for wapiti, and from 24.1% to 67.7% in twigs and from 40.0% to 71.7% in leaves for roe deer. Roe deer had higher IVDMD (40.0-71.7%) in both leaves and twigs of browses than wapiti (35.9-58.7%) during snow-free seasons, but IVDMD of twigs was lower for roe deer (25.9-36.5%) than wapiti (29.4-38.4%) in winter. Significant multiple correlation was found between NDF and ADF, and IVDMD in sedges, forbs and ferns for both wapiti and roe deer, whereas only roe deer showed the significant multiple correlation for leaves of browses.
3683032|Dictated by limited resource availability for land acquisition, a central question in conservation biology is the ability of areas of different size to maintain species diversity. The selected reserves should not only be species rich at the moment, but should also maintain species diversity in the long run. We used two sets of data on vascular plant species in boreal lakes collected in 1933/34 and 1996 to test the relationships between lake area and the extinction, immigration and turnover rates of the species. Moreover, we investigated, whether the number of species in 1933/34 or water connection between lakes was related to extinction, immigration and turnover rates of species. We found that lake area or shoreline length was not correlated with immigration or turnover rate. But extinction rate was slightly negatively correlated with shoreline length. The original number of species was positively related to the number of species extinctions and to the absolute turnover rate in the lakes, which indicates that species richness does not create stability in these communities. Species number was not correlated with immigration rate. Upstream water connections in the lakes did not affect immigration, extinction or turnover rates. We conclude that length of the shoreline is a better measure of suitable area for water plants than the lake area, and that because the correlation between shoreline length and extinction rate was slight, also small lakes can be valuable for conservation.
3682803|Crucian carp Carassius carassius was sampled during 1993 and 1994 in 21 lakes and ponds in east Norway. In 10 of these lakes and ponds no piscivorous fish species was present, and in the remaining 11 lakes and ponds predators such as perch Perca fluviatilis, pike Esox lucius, and trout Salmo trutta were common. In general, crucian carp was larger in the lakes with predators than in those without predators. The relative body depth (body height/body length) of crucian carp was significantly deeper in populations sympatric with predators (mean 0.358), compared to allopatric populations (mean 0.286). The variation in relative body depth was larger among the sympatric populations than among the allopatric populations. The observed difference in relative body depth may be due to 1) predator induced changes in body morphology, 2) increased growth rates in lakes containing predator due to reduced intraspecific competition, and 3) size-selective predation.
3682923|Heterogeneity in species assemblages of forest-floor arthropods - carabid beetles, ants and spiders - within and between different forest age classes was studied in the southern Finnish taiga. The importance of processes operating on the local scale (within the movement radius of the species) vs on the regional scale (among forest stands) in determining the observed variation was assessed. Four data sets with different spatial resolutions in mesic forests in the same general study area were used. The material consists of 18 283 carabids of 51 species, 48 769 spiders of 212 species, and 126 718 worker ants of 23 species. Analyses of abundance variation and species complementarity among successional stages revealed that in all the three taxa species occurring in the mature forest were prevalent in the younger successional stages as well, constituting more than half of the catch in any age class. A great majority of carabid and spider species were widely distributed across the forest age-classes, whereas ants include a higher proportion of species with a narrower amplitude across the succession gradient. Comparisons of similarity between samples at increasing distance from one another on the local scale within forest stands (a few tens of meters to a few hundreds of meters) showed a quite consistent pattern in carabids and spiders: there was more variation between sampling sites in young successional forests than in the mature forest. Furthermore, only in the mature forest a slight, albeit statistically not significant, negative relationship between similarity of samples and distance between sampling sites was detected. In carabids and spiders, comparisons between samples located at a distance of 10-15 m from each other showed considerable heterogeneity, the mean percentage similarity being c. 0.6 (in ants c. 0.8). On the regional scale, systematic variation between young and mature forest stands is a major element increasing the total diversity (species turnover c. 50% in carabids and spiders; compositional similarity c. 0.3-0.4 in carabids, 0.2-0.3 in spiders), but variation within forest stands on a spatial scale of 10-15 meters is another important component in the total heterogeneity. The results suggest that regional abundance variation is a primary factor influencing the composition of local assemblages; a set of hypotheses elaborating this conclusion is formulated. The result implies that maintenance of habitat heterogeneity on a small scale (10-15 m) is needed to preserve biodiversity in managed forests.
3683804|Recent studies on the determinants of distribution and abundance of animals at landscape level have emphasized the usefulness of the metapopulation approach, in which patch area and habitat connectivity have often proved to explain satisfactorily existing patch occupancy patterns. A different approach is needed to study the common situation in which suitable habitat is difficult to determine or does not occur in well-defined habitat patches. We applied a landscape ecological approach to study the determinants of distribution and abundance of the threatened clouded apollo Parnassius mnemosyne butterfly within an area of 6 km
3683388|Recent studies have shown that organisms from the detritus food web subsidize generalist predators in aboveground food webs, but its significance in space and time is largely unknown. Here we report seasonal dynamics of aerial insects from grazing and detritus food webs in both forest and grassland habitats, and show how these patterns influence the dependence of web spiders on the detritus food web. Detrital insects were more abundant in spring, decreased in summer, and then increased slightly in autumn. This pattern was most conspicuous in Nematocera. Due to different seasonal activity patterns of grazing and detrital insects, the proportion of detrital insects was greater in spring and autumn. Detrital insects were relatively more abundant in the forest than in the grassland. Prey captured by web spiders generally reflected seasonal and spatial patterns of aerial insect abundance. In particular, Leucauge spiders reversed their dependence on the two food webs seasonally. Body size of spiders was negatively correlated with the proportion of detrital prey, suggesting that the detrital subsidy is essential for relatively small predators. This size effect probably resulted from interaction of the following two factors: 1) the maximum body size of prey that can be caught increased with spider body size, 2) larger body size classes of aerial insects included a higher proportion of insects from the grazing food web.
3682900|Latitudinal gradients in species diversity are well established for a number of plant and animal taxa. Both historical and present-day environmental factors have been suggested to be responsible for observed patterns. We tested the hypothesis that current environmental features of the environment (primary productivity and regional landscape structure) may explain the longitudinal variation in species richness of mammalian herbivores in the Holarctic boreal zone. Mammalian herbivore species diversity was strongly correlated with a number of environmental variables measured. We reduced the data set by a principal components analysis (PCA), and found that in the Palearctic, species richness is positively related to warm climate (high temperature sum), the number of hardwood species, and the area of boreal forest. In the Nearctic, species richness increases as the length of the growing season and the number of coniferous tree species increase. Thus indirect measures of primary productivity as well as tree species number may accurately predict species richness in mammalian herbivores. In addition, there seems to be a strong species-area effect at the regional level. The larger and more homogeneous in terms of forest coverage a boreal section is, the more species coexist there.
30244565|The present study tests the hypothesis that the habitat of the globally extinct aurochs Bos primigenius was primarily riverine flat-lands. Landscape features in Britain were analyzed for sites with Late Pleistocene and postglacial finds of aurochs (n = 188), and, for comparison, wolf (101), brown bear (96), red deer (73), beaver (68), roe deer (46) and moose (23). Find sites were defined as Ordnance Survey 1 km map squares containing 1 or more finds. For each, spot height above sea level, heights of contour lines, flatness of terrain, total length of watercourses, and presence of woods, rock and water features were noted. Comparisons of find sites among species (Kruskal-Wallis test) show significant differences that accord with knowledge of present-day habitat preferences at the landscape level. Considering the species separately each find site was then compared with a randomly selected control map square within 10 km. Compared with their respective control squares, find sites of beaver have, today, a stronger association with presence of lakes; those of brown bear and wolf with presence of cliffs and rock outcrops; and those of aurochs with absence of woodland and with lower elevation and greater flatness. The concordance of these findings with the present-day habitats of the extant species suggests valid inferences can be made about the habitat preference of the extinct aurochs. On this basis the aurochs appears, as hypothesized, to have selected low-lying, flat ground, which (indicated by its present-day use for purposes other than woodland) was relatively fertile.
3683618|The aim of this study is to evaluate the possible consequences of climate change on a representative sample of forest herbs in Europe. A fuzzy climatic envelope was used to predict the location of suitable climatic conditions under two climatic change scenarios. Expected consequences in terms of lost and gained range size and shift in distribution for 26 forest herbs were estimated. These results were combined in an Index of Predicted Range Change for each species. Finally, the effects of habitat fragmentation for potential dispersal routes were evaluated and options for management on a European scale are discussed. Generally, a good agreement of the estimated suitability under the present climate and the observed current distribution was observed. However, species vary a lot in the degree to which they occupy the presently climatically suitable areas in Europe. Many species are absent from large areas with suitable climate and thus could be said to have poor range-filling capacity. A general change in location (range centroid) of the total suitable area was observed: The total suitable area will on average move strongly northwards and moderately eastwards under the relatively mild B1 scenario and more strongly so under the A2 scenario. The required average minimum migration rate per year to track the potential range shift is 2.1 km under the B1 scenario and 3.9 km under the A2 scenario. Moderate losses in the total suitable area in Europe are predicted for most species under both scenarios. However, the predicted changes are very variable, with one species (Actaea erythrocarpa) experiencing total range elimination in Europe (A2 scenario) while the total suitable area is predicted to show large increases for other species. The species that are predicted to experience the greatest proportional losses in their climatically suitable area within their presently realised range tend to have northern or eastern range centroids. The Index of Predicted Range Change roughly divides the species studied in four groups: One species face a high risk of extinction; eight species are expected to experience moderate to severe threat of extinction; 11 species are not considered at risk and, finally, six species may actually benefit from global warming. An analysis of potential migration routes shows the importance of maintaining and, if possible, improving the network of forest throughout Europe to make migration possible. It is also suggested to closely monitor the status of boreal and subalpine species that are most threatened by global warming. Finally it is recommended that special concern should be given to increased protection and restoration of forest habitats in southern montane areas for their crucial long-term importance for the maintenance of European plant diversity.
3683675|We tested which factors explain the distribution pattern of the epiphytic moss Neckera pennata on three spatial scales using the framework of generalized linear models. First, we tested which factors explained its occurrence in forest stands in a 2500 ha landscape. At this scale, we also tested the effect of the historic landscape structure. We recorded its occurrence in all suitable stands. The occurrence probability increased with increasing present quantity of Acer platanoides, and with increasing present and past quantity of Fraxinus excelsior. The probability also increased with increasing connectivity to occupied stands. However, the connectivity to stands present in 1977 (recorded from infra-red aerial photographs) explained more of the variation. This suggests that the regional metapopulation size of N. pennata has decreased during the past decades, and that its present distribution pattern reflects the age of the remaining stands, and the distribution of past dispersal sources in the landscape. Second, we tested which factors explained the occurrence and abundance on individual trees in three forest stands. Neckera pennata mainly occurred on Acer and Fraxinus stems. The most important variable in explaining occurrence probability was connectivity to surrounding occupied trees, which probably reflects the restricted dispersal range in this species. The abundance on occupied trees was also explained by this variable. The occurrence probability and abundance also increased with increasing tree diameter, probably reflecting the time that a tree has been available for colonization and the time since colonization, respectively. The occurrence probability and abundance furthermore decreased on strongly leaning (and deteriorating) trees. The occurrence probability increased with increasing bark roughness, probably reflecting increasing suitability regarding bark chemistry and moisture. Third, we tested its vertical distribution on occupied trees. The main distribution was below 1.6 m.
3683217|We examine spatial differences in patterns of species richness among butterfly families in Europe and North Africa. When compared to global proportions for the whole region there is a surplus of Nymphalidae in northern Europe, of Pieridae in North Africa and the Mediterranean islands, of Lycaenidae in Iberia and Greece, of Hesperiidae in the Algarve, and a deficit of Satyridae outside the mountain areas. For the Lycaenidae and Satyridae the spatial bias in numbers of species corresponds with a bias for endemism in southern Europe, regions of refuge and persistence during Pleistocene polyglaciation. We argue that regional surpluses of species in at least these two families are governed more by net species production than by species maintenance. Differences in species richness between families are related to ecological amplitude and dispersal capacity which determine balances between migration, clade isolation, speciation and extinction. Taxa capable of migrating long distances (e.g. many Nymphalidae) are able to colonize distant locations but are less amenable to clade isolation, speciation or extinction; whereas, specialized taxa with limited capacity for migration (e.g. most Satyridae) cannot colonize distant habitats but more readily undergo clade furcation, speciation or extinction. Yet, only taxa initially able to disperse and extend their ranges can undergo clade furcation. Dispersal capacity divides into extrinsic and intrinsic parameters. Both are influenced by environmental changes, particularly resource geography, associated with Pleistocene glacial cycles. Changes in resource geography, by influencing extrinsic components of dispersal and in turn reinforcing intrinsic components of dispersal, result in a polarization in evolutionary dynamics; one extreme is extensive migration, gene flow and gene pool homogeneity, the other is isolation, speciation or extinction. At the isolation end of this scale, the balance between clade evolution and extinction depends on the nature of environmental change and landscape structure.
30243238|Identifying attributes associated with good breeding habitat is critical for understanding animal population dynamics. However, the association between environmental heterogeneity and breeding probability has been often overlooked in habitat analyses. We evaluated habitat quality in a metapopulation of the endangered Iberian lynx Lynx pardinus by analyzing spatiotemporal patterns in breeding records. Data summarizing successful production of litters after emergence from dens over four years within 13 lynx territories were examined. We designed a set of generalized linear mixed models representing different hypotheses regarding how patterns in breeding records relate to environmental heterogeneity. Environmental heterogeneity was described by two characteristics: 1) a landscape index measured in lynx territories indicative of time-averaged prey availability and 2) yearly variability in prey abundance not captured with this index. By including the random effect of the lynx territory we also accounted for other territory-specific effects on reproduction. We found significant differences in yearly prey density dynamics among lynx territories. However, temporal variation in prey density contributed poorly to explaining lynx breeding. The most parsimonious model included the landscape structure as the only effect explaining breeding patterns. A multinomial-model-representation of the landscape hypothesis explained nearly 50% of variability in breeding records. Results pointed to the existence of a habitat quality gradient associated with particular landscape structures influencing lynx habitat selection and breeding performance. Underlying this gradient was time-averaged prey availability. Probably as a result of long-term fitness strategies in long-lived territorial species, the short-term fluctuations in prey availability had a minor influence. Our results illustrate how habitat inferences can be enhanced by incorporating the link between spatiotemporal patterns in reproduction and environmental heterogeneity.
30243127|Eruptive herbivores can exert profound landscape level influences. For example, the ongoing mountain pine beetle outbreak in British Columbia, Canada, has resulted in mortality of mature lodgepole pine over >7 million ha. Analysis of the spatiotemporal pattern of spread can lend insights into the processes initiating and/or sustaining such phenomena. We present a landscape level analysis of the development of the current outbreak. Aerial survey assessments of tree mortality, projected onto discrete 12 x 12 km cells, were used as a proxy for insect population density. We examined whether the outbreak potentially originated from an epicenter and spread, or whether multiple localized populations erupted simultaneously at spatially disjunct locations. An aspatial cluster analysis of time series from 1990 to 2003 revealed four distinct time series patterns. Each time series demonstrated a general progression of increasing mountain pine beetle populations. Plotting the geographical locations of each temporal pattern revealed that the outbreak occurred first in an area of west-central British Columbia, and then in an area to the east. The plot further revealed many localized infestations erupted in geographically disjunct areas, especially in the southern portion of the province. Autologistic regression analyses indicated a significant, positive association between areas where the outbreak first occurred and conservation lands. For example, the delineated area of west-central British Columbia is comprised of three conservation parks and adjacent working forest. We further examined how population synchrony declines with distance at different population levels. Examination of the spatial dependence of temporal synchrony in population fluctuations during early, incipient years (i.e. 1990-1996) suggested that outbreaking mountain pine beetle populations are largely independent at scales >200 km during non-epidemic periods. However, during epidemic years (i.e. 1999-2003), populations were clearly synchronous across the entire province, even at distances of up to 900 km. The epicentral pattern of population development can be used to identify and prioritize adjacent landscape units for both reactive and proactive management strategies intended to minimize mountain pine beetle impacts.
3683410|The clouded Apollo Parnassius mnemosyne is a food plant specialist with short but frequent movements between habitat patches. The short average dispersal distances suggest that the probability of colonisation of vacant patches decreases rapidly as the distance between the source and target patches increases, which means that a dense habitat network is needed for the conservation of the species. Both emigration rate and the number of immigrants varied among patches and were not affected only by isolation but also by several other patch characteristics. The model that explained most of the variation in emigration rates among patches included patch area and the number of conspecifics. The area and the population density of the target patch had significant effects on the number of arriving immigrants. Thus, the colonisation of vacant patches is dependent on these patch characteristics. Generally, emigration rates were lower and residence times longer in large patches with many conspecifics. Butterfly density was the most important single factor explaining the variation in the number of immigrants among patches, although the positive effect of the area of the target patch was also significant. As a consequence of the marked positive density dependence caused by conspecific attraction, small patches with higher than average butterfly density, receive more immigrants than could be expected based on the patch area only. Due to conspecific attraction, per capita immigration rates are higher in small than large patches. Thus, immigration may have a more significant effect on the local dynamics of small than large populations.
3683863|Previous studies suggest that urbanization alters the abundance and species richness of native insects on remnant habitat patches. However, the effects of urbanization on biological communities caused by habitat loss and fragmentation have not been separated from effects caused by altered habitat quality within remnant habitats or by the nature of the urban matrix. To test for an effect of urbanization acting via altered habitat quality or matrix characteristics, we controlled for the effects of habitat loss and fragmentation by comparing remnant habitat patches in urban and agricultural regions experiencing similar levels of habitat loss and fragmentation. We studied the species richness and abundance of the community of leaf-mining Lepidoptera on Quercus agrifolia in the San Francisco Bay Area. We measured the extent of five land-use types within a 500 m radius of each study patch. We built generalized linear models to determine if the extent of any of the landscape variables was associated with the species richness and abundance of the leaf-miner community. The extent of urbanization was not associated with species richness or total abundance. However, the abundance of three species of leaf-mining moths was associated with the extent of urbanization, but not in a consistent pattern. The abundances of Stigmella variella and Bucculatrix albertiella were higher and the abundance of Dryseriocrania auricyanea was lower at highly urbanized sites. The absence of a consistent association between urban land-use and both species richness and abundance indicates that the effects of urbanization on the community of leaf-mining moths of Q. agrifolia do not differ from the effects of replacing and fragmenting habitats with similar amounts of agricultural land-uses.
30244663|Conservation biogeography is considered the Cinderella of biological conservation. Nevertheless biogeography provides the basis for establishing species distributions over space and time, therefore conservation priorities among areas and individual species. We demonstrate that there is no need to simplify analyses by using subsets of species (rare species, endemics) as surrogates. In doing so, we apply strict biogeographical techniques to determine butterfly impoverishment on three of the west Mediterranean's largest islands (Sardinia, Corsica and Sicily). The analyses performed on species, both collectively and individually, reveal that regional species richness in the Mediterranean zone can be largely predicted by latitude, altitude and latitudinal range (maximum minus minimum latitude), but that Sardinia and Corsica have clearly impoverished faunas. Logistic regression at individual species level demonstrates that several species, predicted to be present in these islands on the basis of their continental distributions, are actually absent. When compared with species that are present in these islands, such missing species are disclosed as having ecological traits which reduce their colonization capability. Probabilities of occurrence are calculated for each species on each island; they reflect the potential for each butterfly species to migrate to and colonise each island, and can be considered as a measure of conservation value. As such, species present on islands but having low immigration probabilities are predicted to represent isolated populations from the mainland that are unlikely to re-colonize the islands in the case of extinction. Island endemic species and races are shown to have lower occurrence probabilities compared to widespread species occurring on islands and illustrate the usefulness of occurrence probabilities for identifying isolated populations in need of conservation attention.
3683309|This paper describes the multidimensional niche of syntopic smooth newts Triturus vulgaris, alpine newts Triturus alpestris, and Italian crested newts Triturus carnifex, which constitute a complex community of eight components (the three species and their larvae, plus juvenile and neotenic alpine newts). All the potentially limiting resources (seasonal time, diel time, habitat and food) are analyzed as single niche dimensions, and then the real multidimensional niche is calculated. Resource states are objectively defined, using an algorithm that groups the significant resource categories. The larvae were segregated by prey, season, habitat, and water depth, in order of decreasing importance; their overlap was very low when their complete multidimensional niche was considered, and therefore they have few opportunities for present-day competition. The adults were largely segregated by season and water depth, and to a lesser degree by habitat and prey; their multidimensional niches overlapped to a certain degree, thus leaving conditions for ongoing competition. Considering all the species and the life stages together, the order of importance for segregation was season, prey, habitat, water depth and diel activity, with a low overlap in the complete niche. Differences in prey size were probably due to morphological constraints; differences in diel activity had very little effect on segregation, except in separating larvae from the adults, and were likely promoted by need to avoid mutual predation and cannibalism. It remains to be tested whether seasonal, habitat, and water depth differences are due to competitive pressures or to ecophysiological constraints.
3683782|Over 30 species of fleshy-fruited plants are found in southeast Alaska. In this paper we examine traits such as plant growth form, phenology, fruit color, seed load, pulp dry weight, and pulp nutrient content and compare them with those of fruits from central Illinois. Two comparative methods (continuous time Markov model and phylo-Anova) were used to compare both qualitative and quantitative traits between the two regions. Although fleshy-fruited plants from SE Alaska appear to be predominantly shrubs or herbs in contrast to central Illinois, where trees and vines tend to be more common, no significant differences among growth forms were found when accounting for plant phylogeny. In SE Alaska, most fruits mature in August and September, whereas most fruits mature later in the autumn in Illinois. Red fruits are more common in Alaska than in Illinois, where blue-black fruits predominate. Alaskan fruits have a significantly greater seed load than fruits in Illinois, while pulp dry weight does not differ between the two regions. Although the proportion of sugars and lipids in the pulp was not statistically different between the two regions, total reward of the pulp (estimated as the absolute amount of sugars plus twice the amount of lipids, as lipids provide about twice the energy of sugars) was greater in Alaskan than in Illinois fruits. Neither phylogenetic constraints nor selection by frugivores appear to account fully for the regional distribution of fruit characteristics.
20696313|The post-glacial migration of European beech Fagus sylvatica has been addressed by many studies using either genetic or fossil data or a combination of both. In contrast to this, only little is known about the migration history of beech forest understorey species. In a review of phytosociological literature, we identified 110 plant species which are closely associated with beech forest. We divided the distribution range of European beech forests into 40 geographical regions, and the presence or absence of each species was recorded for each region. We compared overall species numbers per region and numbers of narrow-range species (species present in < 10 regions). A multiple regression model was used to test for the explanatory value of three potential diversity controls: range in elevation, soil type diversity, and distance to the nearest potential refuge area. A hierarchical cluster analysis of the narrow-range species was performed. The frequency of range sizes shows a U-shaped distribution, with 42 species occurring in < 10 regions. The highest number of beech forest species is found in the southern Alps and adjacent regions, and species numbers decrease with increasing distance from these regions. With only narrow-range species taken into consideration, secondary maxima are found in Spain, the southern Apennines, the Carpathians, and Greece. Distance to the nearest potential refuge area is the strongest predictor of beech forest species richness, while altitudinal range and soil type diversity had little or no predictive value. The clusters of narrow-range species are in good concordance with the glacial refuge areas of beech and other temperate tree species as estimated in recent studies. These findings support the hypothesis that the distribution of many beech forest species is limited by post-glacial dispersal rather than by their environmental requirements.
3683206| The relationship between bryophytes and lichens versus phanerogams has been investigated in three stands of a limestone grassland community, along three transects of 500 10  10 cm plots. Ordination axes resulting from Detrended Correspondence Analysis for bryophytes and lichens versus phanerogams were correlated using Spearman rank correlation coefficient. The effect of grain (sample plot) size on relationships between species along the gradient and on the correlatio between the layers formed by bryophytes and lichens (cryptogams) and phanerogams, and with environmental variables has been as well examined. Values for light, moisture, pH and nitrogen have been derived from the vegetation itself with the help of Ellenberg indicator values. The relative position of species in the ordination space is more or less the same until grain size 3 (10  40 cm) for cryptogams and phanerogams and until grain size 2 (10  20 cm) for all-species together. Therefore, it is suggested that sample plot sizes of 10  10 cm to 10  20 cm are appropriate as units for field experiments testing interactions between cryptogams and phanerogams. The respective layers were weakly correlated and the correlation between them increased with increase in grain size. The correlation of DCA axis 1 from the ordination of cryptogams, phanerogams and all-species with the environmental factors was weak and similar in order of magnitude. Only the environmental variables which were strongly correlated with the DCA axis 1 increased in correlation at larger grain sizes. The ordinations of cryptogams, phanerogams and all-species were correlated along DCA axis 1 with pH in all investigated stands and at almost all grain sizes. Multi-species patches have been detected by pattern analysis (PASFRAN) on DCA sample scores from ordinations of cryptogams, phanerogams and combined matrices. Multi-species patterns with sizes between 20-240 cm, composed by bryophytes and lichens and by phanerogams have been found. Complex patterns formed by cryptogams and phanerogams together, which are different in size than those in the separate layers, suggest that bryophytes + lichens and phanerogams may interact with each other. 
3683857|No empirical studies have examined the relationship between diversity and spatial heterogeneity across unimodal species richness gradients. We determined the relationships between diversity and environmental factors for 144 0.18 m
3682970|Concentrations of N, P, S, Na, K, Mg, Ca, Mn, Fe, Cu, Cd, Zn, Pb, Al, and AIA (acid insoluble ash) in mosses (three Sphagnum species and Tomenthypnum nitens, all hummock species) from a variety of mires, both ombrotrophic and minerotrophic, in the coastal western and central parts of Canada are considered in relation to surface water pH and concentrations of Na
30244566|Knowledge of landscape spatial patterns of seagrasses and their rates of loss and natural colonization is critical for understanding the ecology of this group of submerged aquatic plants. Seagrasses form extensive meadows that occupy sheltered coastal seas of the world. In this paper, we examine the multi-scale variability of three seagrass species over a large near-shore region (42 km) in Western Australia. Geostatistical non-parametric methods were used to explore spatial variation in presence of Amphibolis griffithii, Posidonia coriacea and P. sinuosa, and to identify the spatial scales at which distinct patterns in the species distributions occur: <50, 50-610 and >610 m. Each species showed unique variance structure across local (<50 and 50-610 m) and regional scales (>610 m), suggesting differences in species biology, environmental requirements, inter-species interactions, and their ability to modify their environment. These observations reflect that 1) seagrass landscapes are created by processes that independently act on each seagrass species at different spatial scales; 2) the species' distributions differ in their hydrodynamic forcing, and; 3) seagrass species distributions reflect colonization history such that related species are separated in space because they have different places in the successional sequence. This cross-scale study demonstrates that shoot studies only partly address the spatial structure of seagrass landscapes and further large-scale spatially-explicit research is required before we can interpret the driving processes.
30244700|Plant community recovery (species richness, diversity and composition) of a post-fire Mediterranean shrubland was monitored over a seven year period (1998-2005) under experimental drought and warming that simulated the environmental conditions forecast for this area in the coming decades. Species richness and Shannon's index were positively correlated with accumulated precipitation in the growing season and both variables were negatively affected by reduced water availability in drought plots. The relative abundance of the different species in both treatments was linearly correlated with their relative abundance in control plots. Moreover, we found species-specific responses to treatments. Drought and warming treatment reduced the competitive ability of the obligate seeder tree Pinus halepensis against native resprouter shrubs and consequently, the transformation from shrub to pine tree dominated vegetation was slowed down. Conversely, the water use strategy of Globularia alypum may allow this species to maintain a dominant position in drought plots. Therefore, future drier and warmer conditions in Mediterranean areas may severely affect plant community recovery after a disturbance, due to the existence of both abundance-dependent and species-specific responses that may change inter-specific competitive relationships.
3683368|Spatial scale, e.g. from the stream channel, riparian zone, and catchment to the regional and global scale is currently an important topic in running water management and bioassessment. An increased knowledge of how the biota is affected by human alterations and management measures taken at different spatial scales is critical for improving the ecological quality of running waters. However, more knowledge is needed to better understand the relationship between environmental factors at different spatial scales, assemblage structure and taxon richness of running water organisms. In this study, benthic macroinvertebrate data from 628 randomly selected streams were analysed for geographical and environmental relationships. The dataset also included 100 environmental variables, from local measures such as in-stream substratum and vegetation type, catchment vegetation and land-use, and regional variables such as latitude and longitude. Cluster analysis of the macroinvertebrate data showed a continuous gradient in taxonomic composition among the cluster groups from north to south. Both locally measured variables (e.g. water chemistry, substratum composition) and regional factors (e.g. latitude, longitude, and an ecoregional delineation) were important for explaining the variation in assemblage structure and taxon richness for stream benthic macroinvertebrates. This result is of importance when planning conservation and management measurements, implementing large-scale biomonitoring programs, and predicting how human alterations (e.g. global warming) will affect running water ecosystems.
30244618|The pattern of nestedness, where species present in depauperate locations are subsets of species present in locations with higher species diversity, is often found in ecological communities. Mussel communities examined in four rivers in the upper Tennessee River basin appeared significantly nested. Mussel species distributions were mostly unrelated to differences in immigration and only weakly related to downstream direction, giving some indication of structuring by differences in extinction. Mussel species distributions were not related to the number of fish species used as hosts for mussel larvae. Mussel species were more likely to overlap on common fish hosts; however, the host-use matrix was not nested - groups of mussel species used different sets of host fish species in a pattern that appeared phylogenetically related. Sites with high fish host abundance may support high mussel diversity by promoting the survival of mussel species that are less able to attract and infect hosts. Thus, nestedness in freshwater mussel communities may be driven by the array of host fish resources, combined with differences in species' abilities to use fish hosts. An understanding of the nested pattern in this region can aid conservation of this imperiled fauna.
3683285|Lifetime recruitment of breeding offspring estimated in small-scale study plots (i.e. local recruitment) is considered to be the best available ecological measure of contributions to following generations, and sufficient for the quantitative study of adaptation in natural populations. Recent investigations suggest that local recruitment of breeding offspring does not always reflect the total recruitment in the whole population, especially in small-scale plots where the majority of locally-born offspring leave these plots to breed elsewhere. We examined in an avian island population whether study plot size has an important impact on different population and fitness measures. We defined around a central nestbox seven plots, varying in radius from 100 to 700 m. We show that in the smallest plots, the local replacement rate of adults by breeding offspring is low, the number of locally-born offspring settling beyond the limits of a plot is high, and relationships between local and total recruitment are weak. This is especially true for daughters as more daughters than sons settle beyond the limits of local plots for breeding. Our interpretation is that the lifetime recruitment of breeding offspring in local plots does not necessarily reflect the lifetime recruitment of breeding offspring in the whole population, especially when plots do not cover the natal dispersal distance. Consequences of dispersal for the quantitative study of adaptation are discussed.
30244624|Release from natural enemies may favor invasive plants evolving traits associated with reduced herbivore-resistance and faster-growth in introduced ranges. Given a genetic trade-off between resistance and tolerance, invasive plants could also become more tolerant to herbivory than conspecifics in the native range. We conducted a field common garden study in the native range of Sapium sebiferum using seeds from native Chinese populations and invasive North American populations to compare their growth and herbivory resistance. We also performed a cage-pot experiment to compare their resistance and tolerance to Bikasha collaris beetles that are specialist feeders on S. sebiferum trees in China. Results of the common garden study showed that Sapium seedlings of invasive populations relative to native populations were more frequently attacked by native herbivores. Growth and leaf damage were significantly higher for invasive populations than for native populations. Growth of invasive populations was not significantly affected by insecticide spray, but insecticide spray benefited that of native populations. In the bioassay trial, beetles preferentially consumed leaf tissue of invasive populations compared to native populations when beetles had a choice between them. Regression of percent leaf damage on biomass showed that invasive populations tolerated herbivory more effectively than native populations. Our results suggest that S. sebiferum from the introduced range had lower resistance but higher tolerance to specialist herbivores. Both defense strategies could have evolved as a response to the escape from natural enemies in the introduced range.
3683221| The importance of endozoochorous dispersal in seed bank build-up is analyzed in artificial 40  40 cm disturbances in a Mediterranean pasture. The top 10 cm of soil in the disturbances was replaced by sterile soil, and the excrement laid in half of them was removed fortnightly. The seed banks of the disturbances subjected to the two treatments was quantified by germination of soil samples (n = 44) gathered at the start of the following growth season. Rabbit droppings were collected fortnightly to quantify their seed content and the pasture seed production was estimated. Seed bank regeneration takes place early in the disturbances. The main source of qualitative variation in seed banks is their position on the slope, while endozoochory lacks a characteristic qualitative effect. However, endozoochorous dispersal is responsible for a significant increase in the number of germinable seeds, the richness and diversity of the seed bank samples with respect to those lacking it. The importance of endozoochorous dispersal by rabbits in grassland dynamics is suggested to be its effect on the colonization of small disturbances, where species dispersed with dung are found to be favoured. This aids the maintenance of grazing-tolerant communities. 
30244551|The demand for methods to translate information between spatial scales (i.e. size of observational units and the total area of study) has intensified given increased recognition that empirical data collection and practical applications occur at scales ranging from individual organisms to landscapes. For example, there has been considerable interest in "scaling-down" methods that have been successful at predicting fine-scale species' distributions from coarse-scale distributional maps. Here, we describe the application of scaling-down methods to the estimation of colonization and extinction rates in metapopulations using long-term, large-scale data sets of two roadside plant species, Helianthus annuus and Silene latifolia. Fine-scale data collected from roadside populations were aggregated to generate data at several increasingly coarse scales. The relationships between occupancy, colonization, or extinction and the scale of measurement (scalecurves) were determined using the standard "fully-nested" method and the "stratified random sampling" method. Both methods were successful at predicting not only occupancy, but also the dynamic metapopulation processes of extinction and colonization (R values, averaged across species and methods, were 88.5, 69.3, and 88.8%, respectively, for occupancy, extinction, and colonization). Scaling-down generated more accurate predictions in Helianthus (average R = 88.4) compared to Silene (average R = 63.4), and in both species, scaling-down generated more accurate predictions for occupancy and colonizations compared to extinctions. This is one of the first demonstrations that dynamic processes are scalable, and provides a useful methodology for dealing with the logistical challenges of collecting fine-scale data over large geographic areas when studying metapopulation processes or range limits.
3683619|Desert locust Schistocerca gregaria outbreaks consistently start in the same places, suggesting that certain landscapes are particularly favourable for outbreaking. Outbreaks are generated by multiplication, concentration and gregarisation of locust populations. Previous research has shown how small-scale vegetation patterns in desert ecosystems influence locust gregarisation; the present study examines the effects of large-scale landscape structure on locust multiplication and concentration. NOAA/AVHRR satellite imagery was used to relate abundance and spatial distribution of resources at the landscape scale to the historical record of locust outbreaks. Threshold NDVI values were investigated to define what constitutes 'resource' for locusts. The first part of the study showed that abundance and spatial distribution of resource were not sufficient to distinguish between outbreak and non-outbreak areas in the western part of the locust distribution area. Thus, outbreak danger zones cannot be identified by landscape structure at this spatial resolution. The second analysis investigated spatio-temporal patterns of vegetation growth in two locust breeding areas with very different landscape structure; in both cases, the patterns differed significantly between outbreaking and non-outbreaking years. In Mauritania, a flat homogeneous desert landscape, both resource abundance and fragmentation were higher in outbreaking years. On the Red Sea coast, a fragmented landscape, resource spatial distribution was consistent between years, and abundance alone was a significant predictor of outbreaking. High resource abundance promotes locust multiplication, and contraction of resource into small patches increases locust concentration; these two mechanisms explain how landscape structure influences locust outbreaking.
30243179|That spatially rare species may be predisposed to extinction is a common tenet of ecology. However, the opposite side of the relationship - how extinction alters spatial rarity - remains little explored. We used an extensive biodiversity database to contrast patterns of spatial rarity of a biogeographic assemblage of native Sonoran fishes before and after an extensive, decades-long wave of extirpations. Focusing on 25 fish species native to the Lower Basin of the Colorado River, we analyzed two key aspects of spatial rarity: 1) species range sizes (expressed as kilometers of stream reach occupied) and 2) species' co-occurrence patterns. Native fish species that were spatially rare historically suffered disproportionate losses in occurrences. However, endemic species did not suffer increased losses relative to non-endemic (but still native) species of comparable rarity. Species' geographic range sizes were concordant through time, with spatially rare species remaining rare after extensive extirpations relative to species that were historically more widespread. In contrast, extirpations greatly disrupted patterns of species co-occurrence on both local and regional scales. Over 50% of the species pairs that historically co-occurred (in the same 5 km reach) no longer co-occur anywhere in the Lower Basin, and species pairs that infrequently co-occurred in historic times suffered greater proportional losses than did more widely co-occurring pairs. Such changes in the relationship between spatial rarity and species richness deserve attention because they inhibit conservation planning (decreasing the efficiency of reserve design) and reduce interaction diversity altering opportunities for long-term co-evolutionary change.
3682778| The proportional share of graminoid and forb life-form in the herbaceous layer was investigated along a productivity gradient at Laelatu, western Estonia. With an increase in the herbaceous layer standing crop from 43.5 to
3683120| To test the alternative prey hypothesis (APH), we examined 29-yr time series of bank voles (indexed by snap-trapping) and 6 game species (indexed by bag records) from Gvleborg county, central Sweden, for the occurrence of synchronous population fluctuations. Only voles and the 3 grouse species exhibited cyclic fluctuations; grouse fluctuations were highly synchronous, and positively correlated with vole fluctuations. Although hares were positively correlated with grouse, they were negatively correlated with voles. Fox were positively correlated with voles and grouse; however, a strong negative relationship was observed between fox and hares. During a sharp decline in fox numbers during the early 1980's due to sarcoptic mange, both grouse and hares exhibited a strong positive numerical response, but, not in synchrony. In addition, grouse exhibited large fluctuations during the fox decrease whereas hares did not. Due to the contradictory predator-prey interactions observed, these results provide only partial support for APH. 
30244533|Despite the general success of species envelope models, capturing the fine-scale detail of patchiness in the distributions of some species is problematic. For great bustards in Spain, apparently suitable habitat patches remain unoccupied and cannot be distinguished from occupied patches in current distribution models. We consider philopatry and conspecific attraction as main behavioural mechanisms which could account for this patchiness, and then look for evidence of their influence on the distribution of great bustards across the whole of Spain. We compared the characteristics of habitat patches classed as suitable by a distribution model according to whether they were actually used or not. Occupied patches were larger than unoccupied patches and over-used in proportion to their size, suggesting aggregation and a metapopulation structure. Arguing that conspecific attraction may serve to transfer information about site history and environmental predictability (at least over a short time period), we compared the coefficients of variation in time-series of vegetation and climatic factors at occupied and unoccupied sites. Great bustards chose sites which were more environmentally stable at critical periods in the breeding cycle, "public information" that can only be gained from others rather than through sampling. There is thus evidence that both metapopulation dynamics and conspecific attraction influence the large scale distribution of great bustards in Spain. We discuss how alternative predictor variables and multi-stage analyses may help us to incorporate behavioural mechanisms into distribution models, but acknowledge that there are limits to the value of species envelope models for animal species making decisions.
3682902|Although managers have speculated that parasitism might have contributed to the endangerment of the Attwater's prairie chicken Tympanuchus cupido attwateri, no data are available to evaluate this hypothesis. Because time is constraining, I attempted to determine whether Attwater's prairie chicken are likely to harbor helminthic endoparasites known to cause disease in other grouse so that a more informed decision regarding whether to commit time and other resources to field studies and experimental trials can be made. Using polar ordination, I found a gradient among 10 surveys of helminthic endoparasites of prairie grouse collected from several midcontinental ecoregions of the USA (1931-1977). A regression model including variables representing 1) normal annual precipitation and 2) normal winter (Dec.-Feb.) temperature and the proportion of normal annual precipitation received during the winter could account for this gradient. When meteorological data from areas inhabited by the remaining 3 Attwater's prairie chicken populations were incorporated, the models predicted that Attwater's prairie chicken might be expected to harbor helminthic endoparasite communities similar to those of greater prairie chicken T. c. pinnatus populations surveyed in Illinois, Kansas, and Missouri. Two parasite species associated with disease in North American grouse Dispharynx nasuta, Heterakis gallinarum were found during these studies. Additionally, Attwater's prairie chicken might be expected to maintain parasites not found during any of the surveys I evaluated. This study suggests that it would be worthwhile to survey free-living Attwater's prairie chicken to determine whether individuals harbor helminthic endoparasites shown pathogenic to other grouse species, even if the methodologies employed must be somewhat constrained.
30244652|We compiled data from seed rain studies at 33 sites from around the world to determine whether the greater mean seed mass of tropical plants is associated with production of fewer seeds per square meter of ground. We found no significant linear relationship between latitude and annual seed rain density, but found some evidence for a mid-latitude peak in seed rain density (quadratic relationship, p=0.018; R=0.23). Combining seed rain data with seed mass data suggests that vegetation at the equator produces between 19 and 128 times more total mass of seed per year than does vegetation at 60. This gradient in seed production would far outweigh the doubling in net primary productivity (NPP) over the same range of latitudes. Thus, our (admittedly small) dataset suggests that tropical vegetation allocates a much greater proportion of NPP to reproduction. This raises two important questions for the future: 1) why might tropical vegetation commit more energy to seed production than vegetation further from the equator? 2) What aspect of plant growth might receive proportionally less energy in tropical ecosystems?
3682862|The viviparous lizard Lacerta (Zootoca) vivipara exhibits several alleles of the mannose-6-phosphate isomerase (MPI) enzyme that are carried exclusively on the female W sex-chromosome. Previous studies showed that both the oviparous and viviparous forms of L. (Zootoca) vivipara have these female sex-linked alleles. We document the existence of geographic variation of these alleles among the oviparous populations of southwestern France and northwestern Spain. Two oviparous subgroups were identified: all females from the eastern and central Pyrenees and most females from Aquitaine and from the northern slope of the western Pyrenees exhibited the fast migrating alleles
3683571|Invading and native species often interact directly, such as by predation, producing patterns of exclusion and coexistence. Less direct factors, such as interactions with the broader abiotic and biotic environment, may also contribute to such patterns, but these have received less recognition. In Northern Ireland, the North American Gammarus tigrinus has invaded freshwaters populated with the native Gammarus duebeni celticus, with intraguild predation between the two implicated in their relative success. However, these species also engage in day and night "drifting", an activity that subjects amphipods to intense predation from fish and wildfowl. Sampling of two rivers where the invader and native co-occur showed that, compared with the benthos, G. tigrinus was underrepresented and G. d. celticus overrepresented in the drift. In addition, G. tigrinus were free from parasites, whereas some G. d. celticus harboured the acanthocephalans Polymorphus minutus and Echinorhynchus truttae and the muscle wasting microsporidian Pleistophora sp. (new species). Compared with the benthos, G. d. celticus parasitized with P. minutus were overrepresented and unparasitized individuals underrepresented in the drift. The opposite pattern was found with Pleistophora sp. In laboratory experiments, G. tigrinus were less positively phototropic and less "active" than G. d. celticus (unparasitized animals). Polymorphus minutus increased G. d. celticus positive phototropism and activity, while Pleistophora sp. increased positive phototropism but decreased activity. Previous studies show that the invader G. tigrinus is more disadvantaged by intraguild predation from the native G. d. celticus than vice versa. However, the native appears more disadvantaged with respect to drift, parasitism and the interaction of the two. These factors may mitigate direct interactions and help explain complex patterns of coexistence between these invader and native species.
3683208| Relationships between large-scale patterns of biodiversity and ecoclimatic variability were examined using distributions of 789 Andean birds, recorded in 15  15 grid cells, and interannual differences in Normalized Difference Vegetation Index and Brightness Surface Temperature, calculated month by month and resampled to 15 cells. Following the east Andean treeline from 1N to 18S, there is no evidence of a latitudinal gradient in species richness, but a considerable local variation reflecting the habitat complexity in individual cells. The mean endemism (inverse range-size for all species present in a given cell) shows well marked peaks. Pairwise comparisons of 'peaks' and adjacent 'lows' of endemism provide strong evidence for linking peaks of endemism with local ecoclimatic stability. The most important single factor responsible for this correlation could be orographic moderation of the impacts a south polar winds. Presently manifested as occasional winter freezes in the southern part of the tropical zone, these winds may have been a major determinant of vegetational changes during Pleistocene glacial periods. The correlations suggest that most endemics are relict populations which survived periods of global climatic change in places where these impacts were moderated. It is suggested that, by retaining relict populations, these places play a significant role in the recruitment to the regional species pool. The stable places were also centres of Andean cultures and have dense human populations. The current conservation strategy of reserving areas with few people therefore needs to be supplemented with actions to secure sustainable landuse in certain densely populated areas. 
3683347|We studied the avifaunas of five cloud forest localities at 3000-3350 m a.s.l. on the eastern slope of the Andes of Ecuador. A method standardised for area, altitude and effort was the basis for obtaining data on species richness and abundances. Richness and abundances (diversity) were unchanged along the limited latitudinal gradient (530 km) studied, whereas there was a considerable turnover in community structure between localities. This result has important implications for ranking conservation priorities: the total community richness and the dominance/evenness component of diversity does not provide a basis for making priorities along this limited latitudinal gradient. Instead, species compositions and species referred to threatened categories (e.g., endemics, restricted-range, IUCN threatened/near-threatened, CITES) will be the most meaningful data for making priorities for conservation. We compared our results with similar results from the Andean western slope of Ecuador, obtained with the same method and standardised for time of the year. The number of species was significantly higher on the eastern slope than on the western slope, a characteristic that can be explained from differences in extension of adjacent source areas and geohistory. However, because the species compositions on the two slopes are rather different, it is not recommended to use the difference in richness to rank conservation priorities. Abundances were quite similar on both sides of the Andes. Contrary to the general belief, the montane avifaunas investigated have tropical and not temperate species richness which agrees with the tropical clutch sizes found among montane birds. The avian richness found on the eastern slope of Ecuador near the Equator is definitely among the highest in the world for this altitude.
3683063|To help understand and interpret the structure and function of Aphodius dung beetle assemblages, life history traits and resource utilisation were studied for the ten species comprising the local assemblage of intensively grazed pastures in southern Ireland. Most species were univoltine but one species (A. fimetarius) was at least partly bivoltine. However, temporal overlap in adult flight periods does not necessarily imply overlap in resource use. Three different strategies of ovarian development were distinguished and were related to the preferred oviposition site and successional occurrence of the various species. Evidence suggested that absence of mature eggs in a female's ovaries did not necessarily imply that a female was in a non-reproductive state. Two species (A. prodromus and A. sphacelatus) did not breed in dung; in the laboratory larvae were reared in decaying vegetation. One species (A. erraticus) developed in brood masses beneath the dung pat. Larvae of all the other species developed within the dung pat. There were consistent interspecific differences in the larval development rates, with two species (A. rufipes and A. rufus) overwintering mainly as prepupae and the other species mainly as adults. Previous studies have considered Aphodius assemblages as single guilds but the detailed natural histories of these species may affect guild designation.
3683085| Seed production of a population of 193 reproductive individuals of Euphorbia characias from the north-east Iberian peninsula was estimated at 155 000 seeds per year. The dehiscence period lasts for four weeks. The timing of ballistic dispersal is uniformly distributed throughout the day. Seeds remain on the surface a mean time (SE) of 52.3  6.7 min. Several ant species take the seeds in varying proportions: Messor barbarus (0.225), a granivorous ant which eats the seeds; Aphaenogaster senilis (0.313), Pheidole pallidula (0.296) and Tapinoma nigerrimum (0.162) which take the seeds to their nests but do not eat them. Half a million ant foraging trips per day indicate a very strong short term influence of ants on fate of Euphorbia seeds. Ants as a group have a dual role of predation and dispersal of Euphorbia characias seeds. The characteristics of this Euphorbia (sclerophylly, diplochory, firmness of elaiosome, absence of subsidiary myrmecochorous features) better fit the syndrome described for Australian myrmecochores than the one proposed for European and North American myrmecochores. 
30243176|Factors that influence the early stages of invasion can be critical to invasion success, yet are seldom studied. In particular, broad pre-adaptation to recipient climate may importantly influence early colonization success, yet few studies have explicitly examined this. I performed an experiment to determine how similarity between seed source and transplant site latitude, as a general indicator of pre-adaptation to climate, interacts with propagule pressure (100, 200 and 400 seeds/pot) to influence early colonization success of the widespread North American weed, St. John's wort Hypericum perforatum. Seeds originating from seven native European source populations were sown in pots buried in the ground in a field in western Montana. Seed source populations were either similar or divergent in latitude to the recipient transplant site. Across seed density treatments, the match between seed source and recipient latitude did not affect the proportion of pots colonized or the number of individual colonists per pot. In contrast, propagule pressure had a significant and positive effect on colonization. These results suggest that propagules from many climatically divergent source populations can be viable invaders.
3683049|Examination of latitudinal patterns in species richness, size, and distributional range of East Atlantic fish, based on a compilation of data encompassing the full latitudinal and depth distribution of 1746 East Atlantic fish species, showed that species richness declined towards higher latitudes at a rate of c. 1% of the number of species present, in five-degree bands, for each degree of latitude for both teleosts and elasmobranchs, regardless of habitat. However, the latitudinal patterns in maximum fish size and latitudinal range differed between teleosts and elasmobranchs, and changed with habitat. No clear evidence was obtained that the latitudinal range occupied increased with latitude, indicating that Rapoport's rule does not apply to E Atlantic fishes. Rather, the latitudinal patterns in species richness, size, and distributional range of benthic Atlantic fish were depth-dependent, because species richness, average maximum size, and the average latitudinal range increased with depth, and declined with latitude. The importance of accounting for this depth-latitude covariation in the distribution of marine fish demonstrated here, together with recent evidence obtained for deep-sea benthic macrofauna, points to depth and latitude as the main factors in the distribution of marine animals.
3683272|We experimentally studied the role of local adaptation and the co-evolutionary relationship between an annual, endangered root hemiparasite Euphrasia rostkoviana and its main host Agrostis capillaris. According to our hypothesis, the existence of local adaptation in hemiparasites should be observable in better hemiparasite performance when attached to A. capillaris hosts originating from Euphrasia populations. After one month of growth, the height and the number of leaves of hemiparasites were not affected by the origin of their hosts. The differences in growth were due to between population effects. The situation remained constant after three months. Hemiparasite biomass was not affected by the origin of the hosts. The percentage of hemiparasites surviving after one, two and three months was not affected by the origin of the hosts although there was a weak tendency towards better survival of hemiparasites with familiar hosts than with unfamiliar hosts. All variables used to measure hemiparasite performance during its complete life-cycle gave only limited support for the local adaptation hypothesis. Nevertheless, the familiar hosts suffered less from parasitism as indicated by their higher biomass after the experiment. This suggests that there may be some interactions between hemiparasites and their hosts based on their spatial population structure and common history as competitors.
3683814|In Canada, as in many countries, a relatively large number of fern species occur in specialized habitats and have low numbers of known populations containing few individuals. It has been suggested that the distribution of ferns is mostly determined by factors of climate and habitat due to relatively low limitations in ferns for dispersal and establishment. Here, we attempt to explain whether the local patchy distribution of three calcicole fern species rare in Canada (Asplenium ruta-muraria, Pellaea atropurpurea and Woodsia obtusa) is due to a lack of available habitat. Analyses based on micro-scale differences between sites occupied by the ferns and nearby, unoccupied sites did not reveal any significant differences, thereby indicating that the rarity of these species is not entirely driven by the rarity of their microhabitat at a local scale. Our results suggest that the widely accepted premise that ferns are not limited by dispersal or establishment should be reconsidered, as such limitations are the only likely explanation for empty available and suitable habitat.
3683175|We apply geostatistical modeling techniques to investigate spatial patterns of species richness. Unlike most other statistical modeling techniques that are valid only when observations are independent, geostatistical methods are designed for applications involving spatially dependent observations. When spatial dependencies, which are sometimes called autocorrelations, exist, geostatistical techniques can be applied to produce optimal predictions in areas (typically proximate to observed data) where no observed data exist. Using tiger beetle species (Cicindelidae) data collected in western North America, we investigate the characteristics of spatial relationships in species numbers data. First, we compare the accuracy of spatial predictions of species richness when data from grid squares of two different sizes (scales) are used to form the predictions. Next we examine how prediction accuracy varies as a function of areal extent of the region under investigation. Then we explore the relationship between the number of observations used to build spatial prediction models and prediction accuracy. Our results indicate that, within the taxon of tiger beetles and for the two scales we investigate, the accuracy of spatial predictions is unrelated to scale and that prediction accuracy is not obviously related to the areal extent of the region under investigation. We also provide information about the relationship between sample size and prediction accuracy, and, finally, we show that prediction accuracy may be substantially diminished if spatial correlations in the data are ignored.
3683686|Some symbiotic taxa may have evolved to track changes in the level and quality of food resources provided by the host to increase reproduction and dispersal. As a consequence, some ectosymbionts synchronize their reproduction and activity with particular stages of their host's living cycle. In this article we examined temporal patterns of variation in prevalence and abundance of feather mites living on pre-migratory barn swallows Hirundo rustica. Feather mites in the lineages Pterolichoidea and Analgoidea are the most common arthropod ectosymbionts living at the expenses of feather oil. We investigated whether the seasonal variations in levels of several measures of physiological condition associated with host migration were related to changes in prevalence and abundance of mites. The results suggest that the variation in prevalence of feather mites, and thus probably the mode of acquisition and dispersal of these symbionts, is linked to an increase in host sociality before migration. Physiological dynamics of hosts after the breeding season point at two clearly identifiable periods: a post-breeding period when physiological condition remains stationary or decreases, and a pre-migratory period characterized by a rapid increase in several measures of physiological condition. Mite population dynamics were synchronized with migratory disposition during the period of highest host gregariousness. These synchronized processes occurred in both study years, although dynamics of migratory disposition and mite prevalence and abundance differ somewhat between years for adult and juvenile hosts. Mite population increase before host migration may be a response to a higher quantity of food provided by the host, namely oil from the urpoygial gland which is stimulated by hormones. Therefore, mites might have evolved to adjust their reproduction to the time when they have more chance of dispersal through horizontal transmission. In addition, body mass of juvenile and adult hosts were positively related with mite abundance in both years after allowing for several influencing factors. Body mass variation may reflect adequately fitness of host or their current physiological state, for instance, differences in the secretion of lipids on feathers or a more adequate microclimate to these symbionts.
3683294|Many European tree species survived Pleistocene glaciations in Mediterranean refugia and rapidly recolonized temperate Europe afterwards. Inter- and postglacial migration processes are assumed to have catalized evolutionary optimizations of dispersal-related traits, but up to now empirical evidence is lacking in vertebrate-dispersed plants. We investigated if south Iberian glacial relict and central European "colonizer" populations of the bird-dispersed tree Frangula alnus have experienced differentiations of dispersal-related traits which increase the mobility of northern populations. A comparison of lifetime reproductive strategy, disperser guilds, ripening phenology, and fruit design revealed considerable differences. Compared to south Iberian conspecifics, central European plants were considerably smaller and experienced a highly accelerated generation turnover. In south Iberian populations seed dispersal was carried out almost completely by resident birds which occurred in constant abundances throughout the ripening season. In contrast, central European seeds were dispersed by migrants whose abundances changed considerably during the ripening season. Several bird species were involved in both study areas but rendered different importance for seed dispersal. The fruit ripening pattern was highly asynchronous throughout the ripening season in south Iberia, while central European trees showed a complex ripening sequence which resulted in a significant correlation between fruit abundance and changing disperser availability. Central European fruits were smaller and showed a considerably smaller seed load than south Iberian fruits, thus presumably being more attractive for their small-sized main dispersers (Sylvia warblers). Chemical analyses revealed significant differences in contents of water, glucose, fructose, proteins, ash, and phenolic compounds. The extensive differentiation of dispersal-related traits in F. alnus suggests that even weak selective pressures by frugivores may induce evolutionary adjustments of dispersal traits over large time scales. We suggest that the differences we observe today evolved during the species' distribution shifts in the Quaternary.
3683665|Concepts of spatial scale, such as extent, grain, resolution, range, footprint, support and cartographic ratio are not interchangeable. Because of the potential confusion among the definitions of these terms, we suggest that authors avoid the term "scale" and instead refer to specific concepts. In particular, we are careful to discriminate between observation scales, scales of ecological phenomena and scales used in spatial statistical analysis. When scales of observation or analysis change, that is, when the unit size, shape, spacing or extent are altered, statistical results are expected to change. The kinds of results that may change include estimates of the population mean and variance, the strength and character of spatial autocorrelation and spatial anisotropy, patch and gap sizes and multivariate relationships. The first three of these results (precision of the mean, variance and spatial autocorrelation) can sometimes be estimated using geostatistical support-effect models. We present four case studies of organism abundance and cover illustrating some of these changes and how conclusions about ecological phenomena (process and structure) may be affected. We identify the influence of observational scale on statistical results as a subset of what geographers call the Modifiable Area Unit Problem (MAUP). The way to avoid the MAUP is by careful construction of sampling design and analysis. We recommend a set of considerations for sampling design to allow useful tests for specific scales of a phenomenon under study. We further recommend that ecological studies completely report all components of observation and analysis scales to increase the possibility of cross-study comparisons.
3683133|We studied colonization of annual plants in small-scale disturbances and undisturbed soil for four years in the northern Negev desert. The experiment consisted of 24 patches of 1 m
3683721|Verbal models have hypothesized a relation between body size and the successful introduction of animal species. This relation is largely based on studies of intrinsic rate of increase in what have been termed "colonizing" species. From these studies it has been predicted that introduction success should be negatively correlated with body size across taxa but positively correlated within closely related taxa. I examine this relation for globally introduced land birds. Introduced land birds are, on average, larger bodied than extant land bird species. Across species, families, and higher family nodes, global introduction success is significantly related to decreasing body size. However, within taxa there is a significant positive relationship between introduction success and body size. I discuss possible explanations for the observed relations and conclude that an indirect but genuine relationship between the introduction success of land birds and their body size is currently the most plausible.
30243144|Population effects of competition between large carnivore species may be evident by contrasting actual distributions of putative competitors against predictions of inherent landscape quality for each species. Such comparison can be insightful if covariation with external factors known to influence the occurrence, density, or persistence of each species over space and time can be controlled. We used systematically-distributed DNA hair-trap stations to sample the occurrence of black bears Ursus americanus and grizzly bears U. arctos across 5496 km in southeastern British Columbia, Canada. We describe interspecific landscape partitioning according to terrain, vegetation and land-cover variables at 2 spatial scales. We developed multivariate models to predict the potential distribution of each species. At sampling site-session combinations that detected either species, we then investigated whether the expected or actual occurrence of each influenced the likelihood of detecting the other while controlling for human influence and inherent landscape quality. Black bears were more likely than grizzly bears to occur in gentle, valley bottom terrain with lower proportions of open habitats. Each species also was detected less frequently with the other species than predicted by their respective models; however, the strength of this relationship decreased as landscapes became more characteristic of black bear habitat. As landscapes showed higher inherent potential to support grizzly bears, black bears occurred more than model prediction in areas with higher human access and proximity to major highways but less in national parks. As potential to support black bears increased, grizzly bears occurred more than model prediction only in national parks and less with increasing human access and proximity to major highways. Results suggest that competition is occurring between the species, and that the differential response of each species to human disturbance or excessive mortality may influence the outcome and hence landscape partitioning. Moreover, black bears are more likely to benefit from human encroachment into landscapes of high inherent value for grizzly bears than vice versa. Conservation implications relate to potential mediating effects of habitat and human influence on competitive interactions between the species.
20696309|Nest predation is the leading cause of reproductive failure for grassland birds of conservation concern. Understanding variation in nest predation rates is complicated by the diverse assemblage of species known to prey on nests. As part of a long-term study of grassland bird ecology, we monitored populations of predators known to prey on grassland bird nests. We used information theoretic approach to examine the predator community's association with habitat at multiple scales, including local vegetation structure of grassland patches, spatial attributes of grassland patches (size and shape), and landscape composition surrounding grassland patches (land cover within 400 and 1600 m). Our results confirmed that nest predators respond to habitat at multiple scales and different predator species respond to habitat in different ways. The most informative habitat models we selected included variability in local vegetation (CV in the density of forbs), local patch (area and edge-to-interior ratio), and landscape within a 1600 m buffer around grasslands (percent of land covered by human structures and development). As a separate question, we asked if models that incorporated information from multiple scales simultaneously might improve the ability to explain variation in the predator community. Multiscale models were not consistently superior to models derived from variables focused at a single spatial scale. Our results suggest that minimizing human development on and surrounding conservation land and the management of the vegetation structure on grassland fragments both may benefit grassland birds by decreasing the risk of nest predation.
3683493|We studied factors affecting density and spacing patterns in the pine marten Martes martes population inhabiting temperate forests of Biaowiea National Park, eastern Poland. From 1985/1986 to 1995/1996 marten densities ranged from 3.63 to 7.57 individuals <tex-math>$10\ {\rm km}^{-2}$</tex-math> (mean 5.4) and were positively correlated with abundance of forest rodents in the previous year. The rate of marten population growth was inversely density-dependent and positively related to rodent density. Annual mortality rate averaged 0.384 and tended to be negatively related to marten densities. Mean annual home range of males (<tex-math>$2.58\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, SE = 0.24) was larger than that of females (<tex-math>$1.41\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, SE = 0.20). Seasonal home ranges also differed significantly between males and females. Both sexes held the smallest ranges in December-January. Female ranges increased in April-May, whereas those of males increased in June-September when they were mating. Fidelity of pine martens to their home ranges was very high. The mean shift between arithmetic centres of seasonal ranges was 0.25 km, and the ranges recorded in two consecutive seasons overlapped, on average, by 87-90%. We observed very little home range overlap between neighbouring male (mean 4-6%) or female (mean 6%) marten. Year round the neighbouring individuals of the same sex neither avoided nor attracted each other. Females attracted males only during the spring-summer mating season. A review of other studies has documented that winter severity and seasonal variation in ecosystem productivity were essential factors shaping the biogeographic variation in pine marten densities between 41 and 68N. The density of marten populations increased in areas with mild winters and lower seasonality. Maximum population densities (indicative of habitat carrying capacity) were correlated with mean winter temperature. In Europe, male home ranges increased with decreasing forest cover in a study area, whereas female ranges varied positively with rodent abundance.
30243208|Vegetation is one of the main factors affecting the composition and structure of ant communities. The effect of vegetation is both by offering food resources and by modifying the proportion of ground cover exposed to shade conditions. However, it is difficult in field studies to uncouple the effects of food resources and shade on animal communities. The goal of this study was to analyze experimentally the effects of vegetation through food and shade supply on the structure and composition of a Mediterranean ant community. We have crossed these two factors in a factorial design where we have eliminated vegetation in experimental treatments and we have simulated the effects of vegetation by manipulating separately the supply of food resources and shade. The expected decrease in ant abundance and richness in plots without food resources but with shade was only partially confirmed by the results, because there was a decrease in the number of ant species but not a significant decrease in overall ant abundance in plots without food resources. We did not confirm the second hypothesis that the decrease in shade while maintaining food resources resulted in an increase of heat-tolerant, subordinate species and, consequently, ant richness. Species composition differed in the different experimental treatments. Stress-tolerant species were abundant in areas without shade and without food resources. Heat-tolerant species were mainly present in plots without shade but with food resources. Finally, species with high requirements of shade and/or food resources were associated to control plots with both shade and food resources from vegetation. Overall, this study provides an experiment that uncouples experimentally shade and food resources and dissects their effects on the whole ant community, and shows that the effects of the two factors are independent and affect different components of ant community structure and composition.
3682809|To determine the sources of dispersed seeds I inserted unique tags in fallen Aglaia aff. flavida seeds before dwarf cassowaries (Casuarius bennetti) ate the fruits containing the seeds. Thirty naturally-dispersed, marked seeds were re-located in cassowary droppings in a 400 ha study area. The distribution of seed dispersal distances did not differ significantly from a normal distribution with a mean dispersal distance of 388 m, SD = 196.8. Mean distance of dispersed seeds to nearest mature conspecific tree was 170 m, SD = 108.4; dispersed seeds usually landed closer to other conspecifics than their parent. The estimated distribution of all seeds (including many undispersed seeds) was leptokurtic, creating high densities near source trees ($>0.035\ \text{seeds}\ {\rm m}^{-2}$ within 100 m of bole) that quickly tapered off ($<0.002\ \text{seeds}\ {\rm m}^{-2}$ > 100 m from the bole); any density dependent effects are liable to be manifest only near parent trees. Cassowary movement patterns and resting behavior caused non-random dispersal of seeds. Seeds were preferentially moved to level sites uphill from their source trees along routes that did not cross steep terrain. Undispersed seeds generally landed downhill from source trees. This population of Aglaia would probably contract downhill into smaller, fragmented populations in the absence of cassowary-mediated dispersal.
30243200|Remote sensing classification has the potential to provide important information, such as tree species distribution maps, to ecologists, at a range of spatial and temporal scales. However, standard classification procedures often fail to provide the high accuracies required for many ecological applications. Previously, a modified remote sensing classification technique was used to provide very high classification accuracies for one or two classes (e.g. species) of interest. The aim of this paper was to demonstrate that the output from the method can be suitable for spatial ecological analyses, and to provide a generic simulation framework for assessing the adequacy of any given remote sensing classification for such analyses. Marked point pattern analysis (MPPA) was applied to tree species distribution data obtained for sycamore Acer pseudoplatanus and ash Fraxinus excelsior from a 400 ha ancient semi-natural woodland in southern England using the modified remote sensing classification method to test several hypotheses of ecological interest relating to the spatial distribution and interaction of these species. Monte Carlo simulation methods were then used to evaluate the data and data quality requirements of the MPPA to check that the classified tree species maps for sycamore and ash were adequate. Using the combined method the spatial distributions for sycamore and ash were found to be aggregated and inter-dependent at a range of spatial scales. Together, the remote sensing classification and simulation approaches provide the basis for exploiting more fully the potential of remote sensing to provide information of value to ecologists.
20696318|Body size of large herbivores is a crucial life history variable influencing individual fitness-related traits. While the importance of this parameter in determining temporal trends in population dynamics is well established, much less information is available on spatial variation in body size at a local infra-population scale. The relatively recent increase in landscape fragmentation over the last century has lead to substantial spatial heterogeneity in habitat quality across much of the modern agricultural landscape. In this paper, we analyse variation in body mass and size of roe deer inhabiting a heterogeneous agricultural landscape characterised by a variable degree of woodland fragmentation. We predicted that body mass should vary in relation to the degree of access to cultivated meadows and crops providing high quality diet supplements. In support of our prediction, roe deer body mass increased along a gradient of habitat fragmentation, with the heaviest deer occurring in the most open sectors and the lightest in the strict forest environment. These spatial differences were particularly pronounced for juveniles, reaching > 3 kg (ca 20% of total body mass) between the two extremes of this gradient, and likely have a marked impact on individual fates. We also found that levels of both nitrogen and phosphorous were higher in deer faecal samples in the more open sectors compared to the forest environment, suggesting that the spatial patterns in body mass could be linked to the availability of high quality feeding habitat provided by the cultivated agricultural plain. Finally, we found that adults in the forest sector were ca 1 kg lighter for a given body size than their counterparts in the more open sectors, suggesting that access to nutrient rich foods allowed deer to accumulate substantial fat reserves, which is unusual for roe deer, with likely knock-on effects for demographic traits and, hence, population dynamics.
20696297|Forecasting the impact of invasive species can provide valuable insights to land managers and scientists. In this study we examined the threat posed to hemlock Tsuga canadensis forests by an invasive insect, the hemlock woolly adelgid Adelges tsugae (HWA). Our main objective was to determine if paleo-ecological pollen records, showing the response of tree genera to a previous Tsuga decline, could predict contemporary responses to the HWA. To assess this, we matched fossil pollen sites from the Global Pollen Database to sites in the northeastern US that were invaded by the HWA approximately two decades ago. Our analyses showed that several of the same genera responded positively to Tsuga declines at both fossil pollen and contemporary sites. We then applied this methodology to an area currently threatened by the HWA, Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP), where invasions began just seven years ago. Our analysis suggests that the canopy genera mostly likely to respond positively to declining hemlock abundances in GSMNP are Acer, Betula, Fagus, and Quercus. Our findings provide land managers in GSMNP with the first predictions of likely shifts in canopy composition. We expect that this methodology will have application at other areas threatened by the HWA. Finally, we believe that studies on the impacts of contemporary invasions have underutilized relevant fossil data and that greater efforts should be extended to doing so in the future.
3682779|National parks face problems in managing wild ungulates and their forage resources, including small park sizes and incomplete protection of winter ranges, absence of major predators, and influences from exterior management activities. Our study focuses on the effects of elk Cervus elaphus browsing on aspen Populus tremuloides in the elk winter range of Rocky Mountain National Park. Elk can prevent successful regeneration of aspen by suckers, and increase the mortality of established trees. Here we quantify the effect of elk on aspen in the elk winter range of the park, particularly since the adoption of a policy of "natural regulation" in 1968. We collected a stratified-random sample of aspen cohorts in the elk winter range, and also inside two long-term exclosures. In each cohort we tallied live and dead trees by diameter, recorded the height and percentage of stem surface covered by bark-stripping, and estimated the date of regeneration of the cohort using increment cores. We also tallied live and dead aspen suckers (young trees <2.5 m tall) by height and the number of live and dead branches on each sucker. Aspen outside the exclosures are declining as evidenced by: 1) high mortality among established trees, including entire stands that are dead, 2) low density of live suckers, insufficient to regenerate the stand, 3) suckers that are excessively branched and seldom surviving to reach tree height, and 4) almost no cohort regeneration since adoption of natural regulation. Exclosures and early photos of the elk winter range suggest these are anomalous conditions. Over the last century, aspen cohorts regenerated only when there were fewer than ca 600 elk on the park's elk winter range, far fewer than the present estimated 1600 head. Fire suppression, natural succession, fluctuations in beaver populations, climatic fluctuations, and other factors are of no or lesser importance than elk in the regeneration and survival of aspen cohorts on the elk winter range. The decline of aspen is a concern when management is focused on the ecosystem scale rather than simply the scale of wildlife and their primary forage resources.
3683030|We review the ecological effects of habitat fragmentation, comparing the theoretical approaches that have been taken to understanding it with the existing evidence from empirical studies. Theory has emphasized the spatial aspects of fragmentation and the role of dispersal among patches, and has generated interesting predictions such as a nonlinear relationship between the amount of remaining habitat and the probability of species persistence. However, while the few available large-scale empirical studies of fragmentation all tend to show that it has major effects, these documented effects tend to be relatively simple ones such as the degradation of habitat quality within fragments. There is good reason to be cautious of any claim that corridors or the spatial configuration of remaining habitat can compensate for the overall loss of habitat.
30244546|The number of links in webs of species interactions, which lies at the heart of the biodiversity-stability debate, has given rise to controversy during the last 20 yr. Studies exploring these web properties have mainly focused on symmetric webs where each species can potentially feed on any other species; asymmetric webs such as host-parasite webs, where one set of species feed on another set of species, have been overlooked. However, food webs are incomplete without parasites and the study of parasite-host sub-web properties deserves attention. Here, using a large database involving 33 regional interaction webs between mammals and their flea parasites, we found a negative relationship between species richness and host-parasite connectance. We suggest that some phylogenetic constraints on flea diet may explain our observed patterns because we found that parasite diet breadth, measured as host taxonomic diversity, was invariant along our host richness gradient. We found that the slope of the logarithmic relationship between the number of realized links and species richness is lower than slope values reported for food webs. We suggest that connectance may not respond to increasing species richness as rapidly in host-parasite webs as in predator-prey food webs due to stronger coevolutionary requirements.
3683246|We studied the response of a guild of three Anas-species to patch disturbance caused by the beaver Castor canadensis in southern Finland during 1988-1996. Of the three species, the teal Anas crecca increased in beaver ponds during the first two years of beaver occupation compared to the situation before the beaver. The mallard Anas platyrhynchos and wigeon Anas penelope did not respond to beaver flooding during the first two years. Also dominance relations changed upon inundation. The mallard usually was more numerous than the teal before the beaver, but the reverse was the case during beaver occupation. The study shows that some animal guilds may benefit from disturbance although species dominance relations may change. And, that this change in dominance can be caused by an ecosystem engineer, the beaver.
30244549|The paradigm that tropical trees with farther seed dispersal experience lower offspring mortality is currently based on within-species studies documenting higher survival of offspring located farther from conspecific adults and/or closer to light gaps. We determined whether the paradigm also holds among species by comparing spatial patterns of offspring mortality among three sympatric Neotropical rainforest tree species with the same seed dispersers but with different dispersal abilities. First, we assessed spatially non-random mortality for each species by measuring spatial shifts of the population recruitment curve (PRC) with respect to conspecific adults and light gaps across three early life stages: dispersed seeds, young seedlings and old seedlings. Then, we determined whether PRC shifts were greater for the species with short dispersal distances than for the species with greater dispersal distances. We found that the PRC shifted away from conspecific adults consistently across life stages, but we found no consistent PRC shifts towards gaps, suggesting that mortality was related more to the proximity of conspecifics than to absence of light gaps. PRC shifts away from adults were greatest in the species with the lowest dispersal ability, supporting the paradigm. Differential PRC shifts caused the spatial distribution of offspring to become almost independent with respect to adult trees and gaps in all three species, despite large differences in seed dispersal distance among these species. Our results provide direct empirical support for the paradigm that among tropical trees, species with farther seed dispersal are less impacted by spatially non-random mortality than are similar species with shorter dispersal distances. Thus, greater dispersal effectiveness merits extra investments of trees in seed dispersal ability, even at the cost of fecundity.
3682909| Ten years of dynamic changes in the deciduous woodland at smansboda, an island in the outer archipelago of Stockholm, were recorded by monitoring of individual trees. The objective was to document the process of the replacement of Alnus glutinosa (alder) by Fraxinus excelsior (ash) during succession. Some of the understorey ashes that were recruited to the canopy benefited from gaps formed by dead alders. Others reached the canopy in the absence of a gap in the strict sense, growing in the interspace between two or more alder crowns. Almost 25% of the recorded alders died during the study period. External disturbances or senescence were not major causes of mortality. In late stages of the succession alder mortality was preceded by a decrease in crown size, and significantly associated with overtopping by ashes. The ashes exceeded the alders a few m in height and could expand horizontally above the alder crowns. 
3683717|We investigated forest plant community structure of recent forest patches in a highly fragmented agricultural landscape. A nestedness analysis has been performed at the community level and at the individual species level. We tested the hypothesis that plant species composition showed a nested structure and whether this was generated by isolation and differential colonization. Alternative hypotheses formulated in the past, such as nested habitats and patch area dependent species relaxation, are verified. Isolation measures were calculated between clearly defined source and target patches. At the community level target patches are defined as forest patches < 35 yr old while older patches are considered as source patches. At the individual species level we distinguished between actually occupied and potentially suitable target patches based on a habitat space model and only occupied source patches are taken into account. All results point out that the nested community pattern in recent forest patches is generated primarily by isolation and differential colonization. These findings are confirmed at the species level, since the degree of nestedness of the individual species is highly correlated with their isolation sensitivity. Logistic regression analyses prove that many forest plant species are sensitive to isolation. The probability of occurrence of the isolation sensitive species drops almost to zero, when the nearest source patch is situated further than 200 m. Probabilities of colonization increase significantly when source patches are situated adjacent to target patches.
3683465|Global climate change generated by human activities is likely to affect agroecosystems in several ways: reinforcing intensification in northern and western Europe, and extensification in the Mediterranean countries. If we are to predict the consequences of global warming for wildlife, distribution models have to include climate data. The METEOSAT temporal series from EWBMS offers an attractive alternative to using climatic surfaces derived from ground stations. The aim of this paper is to test whether this climatic satellite data can improve the distribution models obtained previously by Surez-Seoane et al. using habitat variables for three agro-steppe bird species: great bustard, little bustard and calandra lark in Spain. Rainfall, radiation balance, evapotranspiration and soil moisture images were incorporated together with the other variables used as predictors in the published stepwise GAM models. Changes in the predicted distributions from the habitat only and climate-habitats models were assessed by reference to the CORINE land cover categories. Inclusion of climatic variables from METEOSAT led to statistically superior models for all three species. There were large differences in the climatic variables selected and the original variables dropped among the species. Evapotranspiration variables were the most frequently selected. Maps of the differences between the habitat and climate-habitat models showed very different patterns for the three species. Inclusion of climate variables led to a wider range of land cover types being deemed suitable. Despite the statistical superiority of models, care is needed in deciding whether to use climatic variables because they may emphasize the fundamental rather than the realized niche. Used together, however, habitat and climate models can provide new insights into factors limiting species distributions and how they may respond to climate change.
3683297|Large herbivores generally depend on and interact with a food resource that is heterogeneous at different spatial scales. Plants allocate resources to rapid growth or to defence mechanisms depending on the availability of resources relative to loss of resources from herbivory. Herbivores select food and feeding habitats in order to maximize intake rate of nutrients and digestible energy, while avoiding chemical and structural deterrents. To optimize foraging, herbivores select habitats and food items in a hierarchical way, and different attracting and deterring factors may goven selection at different scales. We studied the impact of twig biting by a guild of indigenous browsers in three vegetation types in a semi-arid savanna in Botswana. The heaviest browsing pressure was in the vegetation type richest in preferred plant species, although that type was also richest in defended species. There were large differences in relative utilization between plant species, and ranking of species was roughly similar in the different vegetation types. Browsing pressure varied between species from almost 0-30%. Overall, spinescent trees were less browsed than non-spinescent ones, and evergreen species were less browsed than deciduous ones. In two of the three vegetation types there was a negative correlation between browsing pressure on a species and its frequency. There was a high incidence of rebrowsing, and once a tree had been browsed, the probability that it would be browsed again increased. The results largely agree with predictions based on the resource availability hypothesis, the scarcity accessibility hypothesis and recent theories on the significance of plant defences and on plant's response to browsing and the subsequent response by herbivores on the plant's responses.
3683544|Anatomical identification of soil charcoal fragments was used to reconstruct the pre-fire vegetation composition of a tree line site that burned ca 930 cal. AD in northern Qubec, Canada. Soil charcoal was also used as a proxy to estimate black spruce Picea mariana palaeo-cover. The site (a low-elevated hilltop) is presently devoid of spruce trees and dominated by dwarf birch Betula glandulosa, lichens, ericaceous shrubs (Ledum decumbens, Vaccinium vitis-idaea) and sedges. In contrast, black spruce dominated before the fire with an understory of Empetrum nigrum and Vaccinium vitis-idaea. Pre-fire black spruce cover was estimated at 32%, giving an indication of the potential for warming-induced natural reforestation of the forest-tundra.
3683265|The spatial distribution of adult males and females in a population of the copepod Eudiaptomus gracilis was studied throughout one year. The sexes were markedly segregated in spring and under ice in late winter. This skewed distribution was mainly due to a strong concentration of females in deep water in the lake centre. Males were more evenly distributed but dominated in relative terms strongly over females near the surface and the littoral zone. Among females, those carrying eggs were most concentrated in deep regions. Also during summer, females in the lake centre showed a marked abundance peak in deep water but the distribution of egg-carrying females did not differ from other females. During autumn and early winter, differences in the distribution of the sexes were minor. The distribution of the sexes is discussed in relation to predators, temperature, food, and mates. Female copepods are susceptible to fish predation when carrying eggs. Fish may contribute to the over-representation of females in deep regions by eating or scaring away this category of vulnerable prey from littoral areas and from the surface waters. The fish predation hypothesis does not accurately predict the seasonal occurrence of the skewed distribution, however. Feeding rate of fish is most likely low under ice. Reproductive advantages in the warmer deep water may have contributed to female choice of habitat in late winter. In spring and late winter proportionally fewer females near the surface and shore carried eggs, but they carried more spermatophores. This indicates that these females were more receptive to matings. Phytoplankton biomass was higher near the surface. Thus, males may have gained mating advantages and more food by avoiding deep water in the centre of the lake.
3683658|Climate is an important factor limiting demography and distribution patterns in many organisms. For species with a broad geographical distribution, the mechanism by which climate influences demography is likely to vary dramatically from one end of the range to the other. In this paper we first assess, in a Scottish population of hen harriers Circus cyaneus, how temperature and rainfall influence adult behaviour and chick mortality patterns at the nest. We then test for associations between harrier productivity and weather across Scotland, towards the northern edge of the range, and Spain, towards the southern edge of the range. We show that during the nestling period, female brooding time increased in cold weather. Male provisioning rate was negatively related to temperature and rainfall. Chick mortality increased in cold temperatures and was most likely to occur at nests where male prey delivery rates were low relative to temperature. Annual values of harrier fledged brood size across Scotland were positively related to summer temperature suggesting that the patterns seen in one population held at a national scale. In Spain, however, the opposite patterns were observed with fledged brood size being negatively related to temperature. This shows that whilst the impact of weather on productivity may be equally strong at two ends of a geographical range, the mechanisms vary dramatically. Large-scale predictive models need to take such patterns into account.
3683075|We studied 24 wetlands along a 296-km portion of the lower Missouri River floodplain, USA during 1996-1998. Our goal was to examine relationships between wetland characters and freshwater turtle diversity. We collected data on a total of 2201 individual captures of six freshwater turtle species. Ten species variables (richness, evenness, proportion of lentic species combined, proportion of lotic species combined, and proportions of six individual species) described the turtle assemblage structure and were associated with six broad wetland categories (remnant oxbow, remnant slough, connected scour, isolated scour, temporary farmed, and temporary not farmed) as well as with six abiotic (water depth, distance from the river, duration dry, duration flooded, size, and turbidity) and two biotic (primary and secondary productivity) wetland characters. Repeated-measures MANOVA and ANOVA revealed highest diversity in remnant sloughs and oxbows as well as in newly created scour wetlands and lowest diversity in temporary wetlands. Multiple regressions and correlations indicated that the single most important wetland characteristic for high turtle diversity was a low annual duration of drying. Oxbows supported the highest proportions of lentic turtles; while connected scours supported the highest proportions of lotic turtles. Lentic species proportions were highest in wetlands that were frequently flooded, relatively distant from the Missouri River, and insect rich, while lotic species proportions were highest in wetlands that were turbid, close to the river, and relatively insect poor. The cohabitation patterns of several turtle species suggest that direct or indirect interactions between species may affect assemblage structure. Based on our broad array of wetlands, we identified crucial wetland types and characteristics that were associated with maximum diversity for freshwater turtles. Empirical studies similar to ours across broad landscapes are needed for a variety of wetland floral and faunal groups before sound conservation and management recommendations can be formulated.
3683836|A reliable characterization of community diversity and composition, necessary to allow inter-site comparisons and to monitor changes, is especially difficult to reach in speciose invertebrate communities. Spatial components of the sampling design (sampling interval, extent and grain) as well as temporal variations of species density affect the measures of diversity (species richness S, Buzas and Gibson's evenness E and Shannon's heterogeneity H). Our aim was to document the small-scale spatial distribution of leaf litter ants in a subtropical dry forest of the Argentinian Chaco and analyze how the community characterization was best achieved with a minimal sampling effort. The work was based on the recent standardized protocol for collecting ants of the leaf litter ("A.L.L.": 20 samples at intervals of 10 m). To evaluate the consistency of the sampling method in time and space, the selected site was first subject to a preliminary transect, then submitted after a 9-month interval to an 8-fold oversampling campaign (160 samples at interval of 1.25 m). Leaf litter ants were extracted from elementary 1 m<sup>2</sup> quadrats with Winkler apparatus. An increase in the number of samples collected increased S and decreased E but did not affect much H. The sampling interval and extent did not affect S and H beyond a distance of 10 m between samples. An increase of the sampling grain had a similar effect on S than a corresponding increase of the number of samples collected, but caused a proportionaly greater increase of H. The density of species m<sup>-2</sup> varied twofold after a 9-month interval; the effect on S could only be partially corrected by rarefaction. The measure of species numerical dominance was little affected by the season. A single standardized A.L.L. transect with Winkler samples collected < 45% of the species present in the assemblage. All frequent species were included but their relative frequency was not always representative. A log series distribution of species occurrences was observed. Fisher's  and Shannon's H were the most appropriate diversity indexes. The former was useful to rarefy or abundify S and the latter was robust against sample size effects. Both parametric and Sobern and Llorente extrapolation methods outperformed nonparametric methods and yielded a fair estimate of total species richness along the transect, a minimum value of S for the habitat sampled.
3683302|Aquatic plants are thought to have fewer herbivore species than their terrestrial counterparts, and possibly to suffer less herbivory. I examined herbivory on water mint Mentha aquatica growing in and out of water and tested possible processes determining the observed pattern of leaf damage. Plants growing on land had much more herbivore damage than those growing in water. The most common herbivore of Mentha at the site (a chrysomelid beetle) showed no preference for leaves from terrestrial plants over those from aquatic plants. Caging aquatic plants to exclude moorhens suggested that these predators were not having a strong effect in removing insect herbivores (though this conclusion is tentative due to low insect numbers). Transplanting aquatic plants to a terrestrial location, while keeping their roots in water, resulted in marked increases in herbivore damage, relative to control aquatic plants. The results suggest that the water barrier may prevent effective exploitation of emergent aquatic plants by terrestrial herbivores. This may have consequences for observed patterns of herbivore richness on such plants, plant fitness, and, a more speculative suggestion, for the mode of reproduction in aquatic plants.
30244587|The distribution of animals is the result of habitat selection according to sex, reproductive status and resource availability. Little is known about how marine predators investigate their 3-dimensional space along both the horizontal and vertical axes and how temporal variation affects space use. In this study, we assessed the spatio-temporal movement of a sexually dimorphic marine mammal, the grey seal Halichoerus grypus by 1) determining seasonal home range size, 2) testing whether space use of seals was affected by water depth, and 3) investigating the vertical movement of seals according to the maximum depth of each dive. Between 1993 and 2005, we fitted 49 grey seals in the Gulf of St. Lawrence with satellite transmitters. We estimated seasonal 95% fixed-kernel home ranges for each individual. For each seal, we tested for selectivity and preference for 4 water depth classes at the home range scale and within the home range. We also evaluated the proportional number of dives made in each water depth classes according to the maximum depth of each dive. Home ranges were 10 times larger in winter than in summer. Seals generally selected habitats <50 m deep. They also mainly dove to depths of 40 m or less. At both scales of selection, preference for shallow areas decreased in winter. We also observed that adults used shallow habitats more than juveniles to establish their home range. A spatial segregation based on sex also occurred at the finer scale of selection where females were more concentrated in the shallowest parts of their home range than males. Segregation in space use according to age and sex classes occurred at both the horizontal and vertical scales. Our results emphasise the importance of studying habitat selection of marine predators in 3-dimensional space, in addition to the temporal scale.
3683831|Although competition and predation are considered to be among the most important biotic processes influencing the distribution and abundance of species in space and time, the relative and interactive roles of these processes in communities comprised of cyclically fluctuating populations of small mammals are not well known. We examined these processes in and among populations of field voles, sibling voles, bank voles and common shrews in western Finland, using spatially replicated trapping data collected four times a year during two vole cycles (1987-1990 and 1997-1999). Populations of the four species exhibited relatively strong interspecific temporal synchrony in their multiannual fluctuations. During peak phases, we observed slight deviations from close temporal synchrony: field vole densities peaked at least two months earlier than those of either sibling voles or bank voles, while densities of common shrews peaked even earlier. The growth rates of all four coexisting small mammal species were best explained by their own current densities. The growth rate of bank vole populations was negatively related to increasing densities of field voles in the increase phase of the vole cycle. Apart from this, no negative effects of interspecific density, direct or delayed, were observed among the vole species. The growth rates of common shrew populations were negatively related to increasing total rodent (including water voles and harvest mice) densities in the peak phase of the vole cycle. Sibling voles appeared not to be competitively superior to field voles on a population level, as neither of these Microtus voles increased disproportionately in abundance as total rodent density increased. We suggest that interspecific competition among the vole species may occur, but only briefly, during the autumn of peak years, when the total available amount of rodent habitat becomes markedly reduced following agricultural practices. Our results nonetheless indicate that interspecific competition is not a strong determinant of the structure of communities comprised of species exhibiting cyclic dynamics. We suggest that external factors, namely predation and shortage of food, limit densities of vole populations below levels where interspecific competition occurs. Common shrews, however, appear to suffer from asymmetric space competition with rodents at peak densities of voles; this may be viewed as a synchronizing effect.
3683035|The ground-layer vegetation of a forest-old field edge gradient was sampled to determine the effects of the edge on spatial patterns of plant species and community attributes. Species showed individualistic responses to the forest edge, with peak abundance at different spatial positions relative to the edge. Principal components analysis resulted in three axes which explained a total of 63.2% of the variation within the data set. The first two PCA axes were related to distance to the forest edge. The third separated plots into those that were dominated by Solidago canadensis, and those that were dominated by Solidago juncea. All population- and community-level attributes varied along the edge gradient. Species richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity, and total percent cover increased from the forest to the edge, with slight declines 60 m from the edge in the field. Among-plot heterogeneity was higher at the edge than in either the forest or the field. Exotic species had peak abundance within 20 m of the edge inside the forest and are restricted to the edge. Most population- and community-level attributes showed edge responses on both sides of the edge. This emphasizes the need to study edges as gradients that include both disturbed and undisturbed habitats.
30244635|Dead wood is an important habitat feature for lichens in forest ecosystems, but little is known about how many and which lichens are dependent on dead wood. We reviewed substrate use by epiphytic lichens in the combined floras of Fennoscandia and the Pacific Northwest of North America based on literature and herbarium data and analyzed substrate affinity relative to life form, reproductive mode and major phylogenetic group within the floras. A total of 550 (43%) of the 1271 epiphytic species in the combined floras use wood, and 132 species (10%) are obligately associated with dead wood in one or both regions. Obligate and facultative wood-dwelling guilds in the two floras were strongly similar in terms of internal guild structure in each region, but differ somewhat in species composition, while the bark-dwelling guild differs strongly in both. Most obligate dead wood users are sexually reproducing crustose lichens. The largest numbers of species are associated with forest structural features such as logs and snags that have been greatly reduced by forest practices. Conservation of lichens inhabiting wood requires greater attention to crustose lichen species and the development of conservation strategies that look beyond numbers and volumes of dead wood and consider biologically meaningful dead wood structure types.
20696289|The effect of artificial habitat in altered landscapes on species interactions and their suite of enemies is largely unknown. Water mites have been associated with reduced fitness of model damselflies. Mite parasitism was variable, but higher for Ischnura verticalis damselflies from natural, than from artificial, wetlands in the same region. There were no differences in timing of sampling, temperature during sampling, or host age or sex composition of samples between wetland types. Landscape structure might constrain mite presence or abundance at wetland sites or wetland type might be a better predictor of mites, based on factors such as prey abundance. Fewer mites on damselflies from numerous artificial wetlands means that the strength of parasite-mediated selection is likely less than would be inferred if only natural wetlands were surveyed. Such effects of human changes in habitats on host species probably occur often.
3683086|We surveyed the structure of ant communities in young taiga forests by pitfall trapping in southern Finland. The sampling sites were clearcut and planted with conifers 14-20 yr before the sampling. The results indicated that the structure of the ant communities was largely determined by the top competitors, the territorial species of the wood-ant group (Formica aquilonia and F. lugubris) in the older, and the aggressive slavemaking ant (F. sanguinea) in the younger clearcuts. Species interactions resulted in distinct spatial distributions of individual species depending on the competitive status of the species concerned. Competition and slavemaking were the most important factors on larger spatial scales. The spatial scale of competitive structuring was determined by the territory and colony sizes of the top competitors. On a finer scale, variability in moisture and tree-canopy shading seemed to have enhanced coexistence of some competing submissive species by alleviating the effects of nest-site competition and slavemaking. Competition between the wood ants and the slavemaking ant affected indirectly the distribution and abundance of the species subject to slavemaking, F. fusca and F. lemani. Similarly, the top competitors presumably affected the distributions of other interacting subordinate species indirectly through differential competitive effects on them. Overall, species interactions seemed to have induced considerable determinism in ant-community succession in young forests.
3683351|Understanding why species react differently to changing environments requires detailed understanding of the factors that regulate distributions within current ranges. These types of investigations require spatially and temporally explicit examination of the scales at which a species responds to environmental factors. To obtain this type of information, we analyzed the relationship between ice cover and abundance, distribution, and spacing of belted kingfishers Ceryle alcyon during the autumn/winters of 1993-1994 and 1994-1995. Our results indicate that the effects of ice cover on kingfisher populations are complex and scale dependent. At a small spatial scale (0.5 km) the abundance of kingfishers was negatively correlated with ice cover, as we expected. At a large spatial scale (15.5 km), however, there was no relationship between these variables. We argue this contradiction in our results is due to differences in the patchiness of ice cover at these scales. In a year with average winter temperatures (1993-1994) the spatial and temporal autocorrelation of ice cover and kingfisher distribution were similar. In a warm year (1994-1995), however, we found no such similarity. Neighbor distances were shorter during the cold year than during the warm year and shorter during censuses with extensive ice cover than censuses with sparse ice cover. We conclude that ice cover is a key factor regulating the distribution and abundance of belted kingfishers in our study area during cold to average years, but that during warm years other factors are likely to be more important. Based on these patterns we think that patterns of ice cover may be important in mediating the response of kingfishers to changes in climate.
30244612|Hot spots are typically locations of abundant phenomena. In ecology, hot spots are often detected with a spatially global threshold, where a value for a given observation is compared with all values in a data set. When spatial relationships are important, spatially local definitions - those that compare the value for a given observation with locations in the vicinity, or the neighbourhood of the observation - provide a more explicit consideration of space. Here we outline spatial methods for hot spot detection: kernel estimation and local measures of spatial autocorrelation. To demonstrate these approaches, hot spots are detected in landscape level data on the magnitude of mountain pine beetle infestations. Using kernel estimators, we explore how selection of the neighbourhood size () and hot spot threshold impact hot spot detection. We found that as  increases, hot spots are larger and fewer; as the hot spot threshold increases, hot spots become larger and more plentiful and hot spots will reflect coarser scale spatial processes. The impact of spatial neighbourhood definitions on the delineation of hot spots identified with local measures of spatial autocorrelation was also investigated. In general, the larger the spatial neighbourhood used for analysis, the larger the area, or greater the number of areas, identified as hot spots.
3683093|The impacts of forest fragmentation, agricultural land and habitat structure on depredation of artificial ground nests were studied in the cultivated area in central Finland and in the forest dominated area in Finnish Lapland. The overall predation rate did not differ between the regions. The overall predation rate was also independent of landscape characteristics forest patch size and the distance to patch edge. However, nest predation was clearly affected by the agricultural land since the robbing rate in forest edges was higher near farmlands than further away. This effect was caused by avian predators which proportional importance in predation was higher in the agricultural landscape than in the forest landscape. In both regions, depredation correlated positively with high numbers of pine and spruce. This can be mainly explained by the preference of predators over coniferous forest habitat as a living or hunting area.
30244534|Altitudinal upward shifts of species' ranges have occurred across a wide range of taxonomic groups and geographical locations during the twentieth century in response to current climate warming. However, actual data of plant species' altitudinal shifts are still scarce and not always clear. Here we provide a more detailed investigation of a previously reported European beech Fagus sylvatica forest altitudinal shift in the Montseny Mountains (Catalonia, NE Spain) now based on field photographic survey and on the population age structure and the recruitment patterns in the high Fagus limit (HFL), the central forest area (CFA) and the low Fagus limit (LFL). Monitoring of the lowest altitudinal range shows that beech forest is being progressively replaced by Mediterranean holm oak forest. Holm oaks are characterized by recruitment rates more than three times higher than those of beech in the LFL in the last decades. The percentage of young individuals in the LFL is only half that in the HFL and CFA. In the highest altitudinal range, present day and early 20th century photographs show that the HFL has gained density and has shifted altitudinally upwards, advancing with establishment of new, vigorous outpost trees (13 individuals per each 100 m of tree-line). They are mostly (89%) younger than 35 yr old and mostly (97%) located up to 70 m (with a few up to 105 m) ground surface distance above the current tree line (36-51 m altitude) at the highest altitudes (1600-1700 m). The beech forest upward shift is a likely consequence of warming, but land-use practice changes (cessation of burning by shepherds) have made it possible. These changes in vegetation distribution and population structure constitute a new indication of the complex global change effects on life in mountain ecosystems.
3683747|Our objective was to assess the relationship between the spatial patterning of perennial grasses (total, grazed, and non-grazed) and shrub patches in rangelands under different grazing pressures of the Patagonian Monte. We selected three grazed paddocks with the usual stocking rate for the area, where previous studies showed that a piosphere formation is common. At each paddock, we analysed the grain of heterogeneity at sites located at two distances from the single watering point (near, far), using high-resolution aerial photographs. At these sites, we also assessed in the field the density, size, cover, and spatial patterning of grazed and non-grazed perennial grasses and shrub patches. The grain of heterogeneity of shrub patches was coarser in sites near the watering point than in those distant from it, as a consequence of the increase in size of both, bare soil and shrub patches. Field sampling showed that a coarse grain of heterogeneity relative to fine-grained sites resulted from changes in species composition, increased bare soil areas and reduced perennial grass cover. In coarse-grained sites, lower perennial grass cover resulted from lower density and/or smaller size of grass bunches than in fine-grained sites. We did not find significant differences among sites in the proportion of perennial grazed grasses. Since the density and cover of perennial grasses was higher in fine- than in coarse-grained sites, we suggested that fine-grained sites are more important as feeding stations than coarse-grained sites. The consequences of this differential use could lead to degradation of fine-grained sites and to higher homogeneity in spatial plant structure and floristic composition within paddocks with respect to the condition observed at present, increasing the size of the highly degraded zone within the piosphere. At the patch level, we found that at about one third of the sampled transects, both total and non-grazed perennial grasses were spatially aggregated with shrub patches. However, in most transects grazed perennial grasses were indifferently distributed in relation with shrub patches, showing that grazers display high selectivity of foraging sites at macro level (i.e. high and low grazing pressure sites at the paddock level), but random occupancy of vegetation units (randomness in the distribution of grazed perennial grasses at the patch level). The intensity of the positive association between non-grazed grasses and shrub patches was higher in fine-grained than in coarse-grained sites and may be attributed to higher protection against herbivores associated to denser shrub patches in fine- relative to coarse-grained sites. We concluded that a feedback exists between the spatial distribution of species preferred by grazers and the spatial patterning of use of these species.
3683069|The relationship of local (LSR) versus regional species richness (RSR) provides an insight into patterns of species diversity. We examined communities of surface-dwelling Collembola in ten differently sized, temperate dry grasslands. To register genuine manifestations of saturation or proportional sampling, accurate determination of species pools is essential. Therefore, we applied the first-order jackknife as a species-richness estimator for LSR and introduce here a method for defining a range within which the real RSR probably lies. Our data exhibited similar levels of local Collembolan species richness across all regions, largely independent of regional richness. This curvilinear relationship between LSR and RSR indicates that a limit is present for the number of species that can locally coexist, suggesting local interactions and community saturation. We discuss several conditions that may cause pseudo-proportionality or pseudosaturation, i.e. artificial relationships between LSR and RSR. Furthermore, we test the LSR-RSR relationship for possible effects of autocorrelation.
30244613|The extent and frequency of passive overland dispersal of freshwater invertebrates as well as the relative importance of different dispersal vectors is not well documented. Although anecdotal evidence subscribing the feasibility of individual vectors in various aquatic systems is abundant, dispersal rates have rarely been quantified for different vectors in one study system. Earlier studies also usually investigated dispersal potential rather than actual dispersal rates. In this study we have estimated passive dispersal rates of invertebrate propagules within a cluster of temporary rock pools via water, wind and amphibians in a direct way. Overflows after heavy rains mediated dispersal of a large number of propagules through eroded channels between pools, which were collected in overflow traps. Taking into account model based predictions of overflow frequency, this corresponds with average dispersal rates of 4088 propagules/channel yr. Wind dispersal rates as measured by numbers of propagules collected on sticky traps mounted between pool basins were very high (average dispersal rate: 649 propagules m in one month) and were positively related to the proximity of source populations. Finally, invertebrate propagules were also isolated from the faeces of African clawed frogs Xenopus laevis caught from the pools (on average 368 propagules/frog). The combination of short distance wind and overflow dispersal rates likely explain the dominant species sorting and mass effect patterns observed in the metacommunity in a previous study. Amphibian mediated dispersal was much less important as the Xenopus laevis population was small and migrations very rare. Based on our own results and available literature we conclude that both vector and propagule properties determine local passive dispersal dynamics of freshwater invertebrates. Accurate knowledge on rates and vectors of dispersal in natural systems are a prerequisite to increase our understanding of the impact of dispersal on ecology (colonisation, community assembly, coexistence) and evolution (gene flow, local adaptation) in fragmented environments.
3683728|Environmental factors influencing the occurrence of single species and multi species groups of carabids in alluvial forest at the River Elbe were determined with habitat suitability models. Two representative species for different ecotypes present in the investigated community, Agonum livens and Pterostichus oblongopunctatus, were defined by means of a discriminant analysis. The two species differed greatly in their microhabitat distribution. Agonum livens was chosen as target species for a multi species group of wetland species that inhabited the fringes of temporary waters in the forest. In contrast, P. oblongopunctatus should represent species of deciduous forests. Using stepwise multiple logistic regression statistically significant habitat suitability models were estimated, reliably predicting the species' occurrence. A subsequent evaluation by cross-validations and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves indicated a high discriminatory power. A transfer of the model onto different data sets in time was applied to validate the model. Alternatively, a multi species habitat model, taking into account weighted occurrence data of the wetland species group, was estimated. In order to show that the chosen target species truly holds an umbrella effect upon the represented multi species group, we used ROC curves to indicate the transferability of the target species' habitat model for the multi species group and vice versa.
3682942|Earthworms are supposed to play an important role in the dynamics of the soil seed bank, however, experimental evidence and quantitative data are scarce. To evaluate the impact of the earthworm species Lumbricus terrestris L. on the vertical transport of seeds in the soil, laboratory experiments have been carried out. Moreover, the worm casts produced and their seed content have been quantified in two chalk grassland sites during one year. The experiment on seed transport has been carried out in cylinders with controlled numbers of worms and seeds at different depths in sterilized soil. Seeds used in this experiment proved to be eaten by the earthworms in preceding palatability tests. A significant translocation of the seeds in the cylinders with earthworms was recorded after an eight-week period. In spring earthworm activity was mainly found in the upper soil layers in the cylinders, whereas in summer the activity was spread over a larger vertical distance. The amount of worm casts collected on permanently marked plots in two different chalk grasslands was very high: a minimal quantity of c.
30243155|Territorial animals maintain a certain distance to neighbouring conspecifics, presumably leading to a regular spatial pattern through social spacing. Nevertheless, most animal populations are assumed to show aggregation at certain distance ranges, reflecting the scale dependency of spatial patterns. Leucorchestris arenicola (Araneae: Sparassidae) is a burrow-living spider species that shows territorial behaviour against conspecifics. A multi-scale approach in spatial analysis revealed that territory owners had fewer neighbours than expected under spatial randomness at distances up to 6 m. Behavioural field experiments showed that territory owners were able to perceive and react to burrow constructing neighbours up to at least 4 m distance from their own burrow. At larger distances individuals were often more aggregated than expected under spatial randomness. Analysing adult and immature relationships showed attraction between different development stages at small distances and avoidance at larger distances. The analysis reveals diverse spatial patterns in a territorial and cannibalistic species, showing that both behaviour and environment affect pattern development at different distances. The study outlines the importance of multi-scale approaches for spatial analysis and the need for accompanying experiments to facilitate the interpretation of results.
3683649|We investigate the potential use of structural characteristics of vegetation as predictors of the densities of pasture arthropods in three Azorean islands. Two types of upland pastures, recent sown pastures (3-4 yr old) and wet semi-natural old pastures (> 35 yr old), were studied in three Azorean islands (S. Maria, Terceira and Pico). Three arthropod assemblages, of particular importance in pasture habitats, were assessed: insect forb-feeders, insect grass-feeders and web-building spiders. These are numerically abundant and represent a range of feeding strategies. Point quadrats for plants and suction (Vortis) for arthropods were used as sampling methods. Several vegetation indices were investigated, but only three (cover abundance of perennial forbs, cover abundance of perennial grasses and the total vegetation alpha-diversity) were good predictors of invertebrate abundance. Vegetation structure, defined by a Height Index, was of minor predictive value. In sown and semi-natural pastureland, diverse and structurally complex pasture sites support more individual insect forbfeeders, grass-feeders and web-building spiders per unit area than less complex ones.
20696282|Fertile patches are created and maintained by a combination of physical and biologically-mediated processes including soil disturbance by animals. We examined the creation of fertile patches by 4 vertebrates, the greater bilby Macrotis lagotis, burrowing bettong Bettongia lesueur, European rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus, and Gould's sand goanna Varanus gouldii within dunes, ecotones, and swales in a dunefield in arid South Australia. These animals all create pits when foraging for subterranean food resources. We hypothesized that 1) the effect of pits on litter capture would vary among landscapes and animal species, 2) larger pits would trap more litter and seed, 3) pits would contain more viable seed than the surrounding matrix, and 4) the effect of pits on soil chemistry would vary among animal species, and be greater in landscapes with more finely textured soils. We found that litter was restricted almost exclusively to the pits, and was greater in pits with larger openings. Litter capture was greater in ecotones and dunes than in swales. A total of 1307 seedlings from 46 genera germinated from litter samples taken from the pits, but no seedlings emerged from samples taken from soil surrounding the pits. Foraging pits contained significantly higher levels of total C and N than surrounding soil, and total C and N concentrations were greatest in swales and lowest in dunes. Pits contained ca 55% more mineralisable N that surface soils, and pits constructed by bilbies and bettongs contained half the concentration of mineralisable N as those of rabbits and goannas. Concentrations of mineral N and mineralisable N were also greatest in the swales. Our results demonstrate the importance of animal-created pits as nutrient sinks and sites for seedling establishment, and suggest that changes in the composition of arid zone vertebrates may have resulted in profound changes to nutrient and soil dynamics in arid Australia.
3683048|The rapid and extensive conversion of Neotropical rain forests to a landscape consisting of pasture lands and other agricultural habitats has meant the local disappearance, fragmentation and isolation of vertebrate populations. To avoid further losses in biodiversity in Neotropical rain forests, it is imperative to determine how the different species that constitute the different vertebrate communities have responded to the anthropogenic alterations of their natural habitats. To provide data in this direction, we sampled non flying mammals in 35 forest fragments, in six disturbed forest sites, in 12 regenerating forests, in 20 arboreal agricultural habitats (cacao, coffee, mixed, citrus and allspice), in four live fence sites and in four pasture sites at Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, Mexico. Sampling indicated that area of forest fragments and isolating distance were important variables influencing species richness. Disturbed forest had fewer species and individuals present and supported a lower non flying mammal biomass than undisturbed and regenerating forests. Shaded plantations (caco, coffee and mixed) were richer in species and in individuals than unshaded ones (citrus, allspice). Species richness in forests and agricultural habitats were associated to horizontal plant diversity and vertical foliage diversity. Pasture habitats were the poorest man-made habitats in non flying mammal species. Live fences supported a higher biomass and species of non flying mammals than pastures and were similar to forest and shaded man-made habitats in species assemblages.
3683251|During the course of a year, we studied the water and metabolic status of Asphodelus aestivus, a native geophyte of East Mediterranean, dominant in areas degraded by overgrazing and fire. The species proved to be very efficient in storing water during the long summer drought. At soil water content values around zero, in the upper part of the soil profile (10-20 cm in depth), the roots remained hydrated and turgid; their relative water content was >60% and water potential >-1.6 MPa. Accumulation of proline during winter in leaves (ca
3683450|The arctic fox Alopex lagopus excavates its dens in gravely ridges and hillocks, and creates a local environment quite distinct from the surrounding tundra or heath landscape. In northern Sweden, the vegetation of 18 dens of the arctic fox was investigated, as well as reference areas off the dens but in geologically and topographically similar locations. The species composition showed considerable differences between den and reference areas, with grasses and forbs occurring more abundantly on the dens, and evergreen dwarf-shrubs occurring more in reference areas. The effect of the foxes' activities is thought to be either through mechanical soil disturbance, or through nutrient enrichment via scats, urine, and carcasses. This was expected to result in differences in plant traits with key functional roles in resource acquisition and regeneration, when comparing dens with reference areas. We hypothesised that the community mean of specific leaf area (SLA) would differ if nutrient enrichment was the more important effect, and that seed weight, inversely proportional to seed number per ramet and hence dispersal ability, would differ if soil disturbance was the more important effect. Specific leaf area showed a significant difference, indicating nutrient enrichment to be the most important effect of the arctic fox on the vegetation on its dens. Arctic foxes act as ecosystems engineers on a small scale, maintaining niches for relatively short-lived nutrient demanding species on their dens in spite of the dominance of long-lived ericaceous dwarf-shrubs in the landscape matrix. Thus, foxes contribute to the maintenance of species richness on the landscape level.
3683121|The cost of reproduction has been studied in two populations of the polycarpic herb Asphodelus albus under natural conditions. The percentage of plants with flowers was determined in four sites and varied markedly among them. The occurrence of reproduction was size-dependent, increasing flowering probability with plant size. The cost of reproduction was assessed in terms of modular growth in reproductive plants relative to modular growth in vegetative ones. I compared the modular growth of vegetative and reproductive plants considering two different densities in each of two populations. Neither incidence of flowering nor modular growth were affected by density. Flowering plants exhibited a withinramet demographic cost (in terms of modular growth) relative to non-flowering ramets in one population but not in the other. This cost was greater in larger plants. These results were concordant with the occurrence of flowering at both sites. Both populations exhibited size-dependent patterns of allocation to reproduction, but no significant relationships were found between allocation to reproduction and cost of reproduction. The data presented demonstrate differences in the cost of reproduction within a species. This cost might determine whether a plant begins the reproduction, but probably have no effect on the reproductive allocation since the weight of the reproductive structures was not related to modular growth.
3682790|To determine use of riparian habitats by birds in the northern coniferous forest of British Columbia, we censused birds and vegetation along 500 m transects placed parallel and perpendicular to three second-order streams. Censuses were conducted during spring, summer, autumn, and winter to investigate how use of riparian habitat changed seasonally. Stream-side riparian zones were characterized by a dense understorey of deciduous vegetation not found in the upslope forest. Nine bird species preferred the riparian understorey for breeding, six preferred it only during migration. Neotropical migrants (16 of 46 species) were more closely associated with stream-sides than year-round residents (11 species). Some breeding birds (five species) were significantly negatively associated with riparian habitats. The density of riparian birds declined with distance upstream but did not decline up to 250 m away from the stream. The more extensive riparian areas downstream supported a greater density of birds in all seasons compared to upstream areas, but more species only in spring and autumn. Species that nested in non-riparian areas in summer used riparian habitat in autumn, making riparian corridors in the northern coniferous forest important during migration. Maintaining both riparian and upslope habitats is necessary to preserve species diversity at the landscape level.
3683020|The diet of the viperine snake was compared with food availability in the Ebro Delta, a wetland largely occupied by rice fields, in 1990 and 1991. Snake selection of prey type and size was studied seasonally and by snake group: males, females and immature snakes. Overall, feeding activity (percentage of individuals with prey and number of prey per stomach) increased with food availability. Diet analysis showed that viperine snakes mainly foraged on the green frog Rana perezi (adults and tadpoles) and the carp Cyprinus carpio. Conversely, viperine snakes rejected the mosquito fish Gambusia holbroki which is the most abundant species in autumn, when Natrix maura has a low feeding activity. Statistical comparisons between viperine snake diet and prey availability showed that males selected small carp, immature snakes selected tadpoles and, in spring, females selected frogs. The selection of small carp by males may reflect a sexual divergence of trophic niche related to sexual size dimorphism, as females are larger than males. As tadpoles are presumably easier to catch than fish, tadpole selection by immature individuals may reflect variance in capture abilities. In spring, the selection of frogs by females overlapped with vitellogenesis, suggesting that females compensate for the cost of reproduction by selecting green frogs, which have a greater biomass and higher energy content than fish. Carps eaten in spring were smaller than in summer. Moreover, in summer viperine snakes selected smaller carp than the available mean size. This divergent tendency between carp size selection and carp size availability reveals how seasonal diet shifts in prey size selection may be a response to an increase in prey size.
3683785|A three-step protocol described elsewhere is used to obtain a map of butterfly species density in Portugal on a 50  50 km grid. First, all available faunistic information was compiled and analysed to explore the historic patterns of butterfly sampling in Portugal, and to determine which grid cells are sufficiently prospected to produce reliable estimates of species richness. Then, we relate the estimated species richness scores from these areas to a set of environmental and spatial variables by means of General Linear Models, obtaining a function to extrapolate of species density scores to the rest of Portugal. Finally, the model is validated, results explored and outliers identified and deleted. Any spatial autocorrelation remaining in the residuals is examined. Lastly, model parameters are recalculated in absence of deleted outliers, and the resulting function is used to predict species richness scores throughout mainland Portugal. A highly-predictive function based on some variables previously related to butterfly composition at macro-scale, such as number of sunny days per year, temperature or environmental heterogeneity, was obtained. However, in Portugal those variables are highly spatially structured along a steep latitudinal gradient, leading to difficulty in ascertaining if the latitudinal gradient detected by our analysis is due to macroecological or historic effects. Information on European and Iberian butterfly assemblages and causal processes are discussed in the light of the patterns observed. Then, previous information obtained on Portuguese scarabs is added to identify conservation areas, biogeographically important for both insect groups. Finally, the main drawbacks and advantages of this approach to mapping biodiversity for conservation are discussed briefly.
3683077|Habitat selection is a hierarchical process that may yield various patterns depending on the scales of investigation. We employed satellite radio-telemetry to examine patterns of habitat selection by female woodland caribou in central Saskatchewan at both coarse (seasonal range) and fine (daily area) scales. At each scale, we converted spatial data describing compositions of available and used habitat to standardised resource selection indices and examined them with multivariate analyses of variance. Seasonal ranges generally showed preferential inclusion of peatlands and black spruce dominated stands relative to recently disturbed stands and early seral stage forests. In all populations, caribou preferred peatlands and black spruce forests to all other habitat types at the daily area scale. In general, these patterns may reveal the effective avoidance of wolves, the primary factor limiting caribou throughout the boreal forest. In three populations where seasonal ranges showed the selective inclusion of either young jack pine stands or clearcuts along with peatlands and black spruce forests, we found a relative avoidance of the clearcuts and young jack pine stands at the daily area scale. As all caribou populations in the area are thought to be relics of a once more continuous distribution, the seasonal range selection by animals in disturbed areas may better describe historic rather than current habitat selection. We found inter-annual variation in selection at the coarser spatial scale in one population, and inter-seasonal variation in selection at the finer spatial scale in three populations, indicating that the relative grains of the spatial and temporal scales coincide. We were better able to explain the seasonal variations in finer scale selection by considering available forage, a factor less likely than predation to limit woodland caribou populations. The data agree with the theory that the spatial and temporal hierarchy of habitat selection reflects the hierarchy of factors potentially limiting individual fitness.
3682929|Many studies of red fox Vulpes vulpes diet have indicated a higher frequency of large prey in the diet of cubs at dens in relation to that of adults. From time to time this finding has been questioned as an artifact due to the different types of sampling. In this paper I suggest that the observations were correct and reflected optimal behaviour of a central place forager. I compared the diet of foxes by analyses of 112 cub scats collected at breeding dens and 168 adult scats collected during the same periods. The study was performed in a boreal environment, characterised by cyclically fluctuating vole populations. According to theory, the diets should converge when voles become plentiful. During a year of low, but increasing, vole densities, a significantly higher proportion of large prey was found in the sample from cubs than from adults. This was not the case during the peak and the decline year, when the presumably easily available voles appeared frequently in the scats of both cubs and adults. I argue that the availability of large prey during the first year of increasing vole densities might determine territory size and hence also average population density of foxes throughout the whole cycle in boreal foxes.
3683357| Concentrations of phosphorus and copper in the sediments of Lake Boeckella (Antarctic peninsula) were used to provide an estimate of the size of the Adlie penguin rookery Pygocelis adeliae. Based on dated subsamples from a sediment core, I conclude that penguins have been present in Hope Bay since 5550 BP, with the exception of a short period around 5300 BP. Their influence on the lake sediment reached a maximum at c. 40 BP and has drastically declined since then. The rookery started to grow between 850 and 1250 BP due to a climate deterioration. The increased amount of food (mainly krill), caused by extensive fur seal hunting in the nineteenth century was probably not enough to affect rookery growth. However, the drastic decline in whale stock in the 1930's and 1940's and the subsequent increase in krill abundance may have enhanced rookery growth. The increasing disturbance by man in Hope Bay seems only to have changed the shape of the rookery and the penguins paths to the sea, but not to have stopped the growth of the rookery. 
3683183|The reproductive behaviour of the longleaved sundew Drosera intermedia Hayne was studied in three hydrologically differing heathland habitats: a pool edge, an old path through the wet heath and a seepage area. Sexual reproductive allocation (SRA) (the slope of the regression of sexual biomass on vegetative biomass in a given season) differed strongly between years (related to temperature and precipitation) and habitats. Averaged over years, path plants had a higher SRA than plants in the seepage area and at the pool edge. Asexual reproductive allocation, expressed as the size-dependent probability of reproducing asexually, did not differ between habitats in most years. The observations agreed with general life history theory. SRA was high in the path habitat where adult survival chances were low and juvenile (= seed, first year seedling) survival was high. SRA was lower in the seepage area where adult survival chances were higher and juvenile survival lower. At the pool edge, a habitat with high adult mortality and low juvenile establishment, the predicted optimal reproductive behaviour, a high SRA, was not observed due to environmental constraints (inundation).
3683494|In relatively harsh environments such as arctic tundra, abiotic factors have traditionally been considered the primary determinants of community structure, overwhelming any effects of biotic interactions such as competition. Two common low arctic tundra types that differ in soil properties, moist acidic and moist non-acidic tussock tundra (MAT and MNT, respectively), occur in close proximity in northern Alaska. Several plant species occur in both communities with different relative abundance, while others are restricted to one. This study experimentally examined how neighboring vegetation affects germination, survival, and growth of species in these two communities that differ in soil pH, cation availability, and other characteristics. Germination of sown seeds was greater than background levels suggesting seed limitation may restrict recruitment of these clonal, perennial species. Germination of sown seeds was greater at both sites when both mosses and vascular plants had been removed compared to plots with intact vegetation. However, neighbors had almost no effect on survival and growth of adult transplants. Patterns of germination, survival and growth of several species differed depending on the community of origin and the community of destination of the seeds or transplanted adults. For example, transplants of the sedge Eriophorum vaginatum grew better if they were from MAT, and this species germinated better when sown at MNT. Although of relatively short duration (three growing seasons), this study suggests that biotic interactions may affect local species composition by restricting germination and establishment in these two communities, but have less of an effect on adult plants. Not surprisingly, site-specific abiotic conditions also exhibit control over species occurrence and relative abundance. Without disturbance to clear bare ground for recruitment of new individuals, these populations for the most part must rely on clonal growth to persist.
3683019|Positively autocorrelated red environmental noise is characterized by a strong dependence of expected sample variance on sample length. This dependence has to be taken into account when assessing extinction risk under red and white uncorrelated environmental noise. To facilitate a comparison between red and white noise, their expected variances can be scaled to be equal, but only at a chosen time scale. We show with a simple one-dimensional population dynamics model that the different but equally reasonable choices of the time scale yield qualitatively different results on the dependence of extinction risk on the colour of environmental noise: extinction risk might increase as well as decrease when the temporal correlation of noise increases.
3683509|The Siberian jay Perisoreus infaustus is a bird inhabiting old-growth coniferous taiga forests. It has recently declined in numbers in Finland mainly because of habitat fragmentation. Distant mtDNA lineages from Taimyrian Peninsula (subspecies P. i. monjerensis) and middle Yenisei valley (P. i. rogosovi) have diverged from Fennoscandian (P. i. infaustus) lineage ca 610000 yr ago. The estimated time to the most recent common ancestor for Fennoscandian population (78000 yr) coincides with the beginning of the Weichselian ice age. Within Fennoscandia, the observed distribution of pairwise genetic distances followed the expected distribution of an expanding population reflecting the postglacial history rather than the present day situation of the Siberian jay. Mitochondrial control region sequences showed that among 65 Fennoscandian individuals the most common haplotype (40%) was found in all but two populations. Genetic structuring
3683648|Seedlings of Ranunculus repens and R. acris were transplanted into an array of experimental grasslands with differing plant species richness and number of functional groups. Half of the plots were also subjected to simulated horse trampling, to examine how the interrelationship between diversity and disturbance affected the survivorship, growth and biomass of the Ranunculus transplants. Survivorship increased with increasing initial size of individuals or decreasing species richness of the plots. Vegetative growth, reproduction and aboveground biomass were strongly enhanced in response to a log-linear loss of species richness and secondarily by a decline in the number of functional groups. Disturbance had no effect on performance of transplants with one exception, ramet formation of R. acris, which was enhanced under the trampling regime. Despite differences in clonal architecture, both Ranunculus species behaved similarly. Our results demonstrate the importance of species richness in controlling invasibility of grassland communities.
3682811|This investigation is based on a species inventory in semi-natural pastures, remnants of an "old" traditional landscape, in Sweden. The aim was to examine relationships between species richness and pasture area, neighbour pasture area, distance to nearest pasture, pasture heterogeneity and fertilization. Species occurrences were also investigated individually for the same parameters. Pasture area, neighbour pasture area and distance to nearest pasture were not found to influence species richness. Habitat heterogeneity and indications that pastures had been influenced by fertilization were however associated with both species richness and species occurrences. Heterogeneity had only positive effects whereas the effects of fertilization were only negative. Species regional abundance pattern tended to be bimodal, as predicted by the coresatellite hypothesis. No correlation between abundance and plant height, or seed size was found, as would have been expected if competitive dominance effects determined species regional abundance. There was a close to significant tendency that pasture area was positively associated with occurrences of species with features favouring a high seed dispersal capacity. We suggest that the previous history of pasture distribution and management may be of vital importance for present day species abundance pattern, even though this remains obscure in the recent landscape.
3683539|In species with fragmented distribution, regional turnover dynamics is given by the processes of local population extinction and patch (re)colonization by migrants spreading from neighboring occupied patches. In plants with dormant stages (e.g. seeds) and limited dispersal capacity, regional dynamics based on dispersal processes can be overridden by pseudo-turnover determined by signals inducing or breaking dormancy (e.g. due to changes in habitat quality) resulting in a low importance of habitat configuration and size. In this study, I investigated the turnover dynamics of 5 annual plant species growing on ant mounds of Lasius flavus over three years. I analyzed whether the grassland-scale dynamics of these annuals is influenced by dispersal processes, or alternatively, by pseudo-turnover of soil seed populations. For that purpose I 1) searched for populations formed from soil seeds only, 2) compared the relative contribution of the soil seed bank and seed rain for population restoration after disappearance from the vegetation and 3) investigated whether colonization and extinction events are affected by patch isolation. I assumed if population turnover was rather a result of the soil seed bank dynamics then spatial effects would be hard to detect. In spite of the presence of populations formed from soil seed and the relatively more important soil seed bank for potential population reestablishment, turnover dynamics followed the predictions of metapopulation theory. Population appearance was more probable in larger and less isolated patches. Probability of disappearance increased with decrease of population size that was negatively influenced by the patch size and its isolation. These findings indicate dispersal processes to be important in the turnover dynamics and only limited contribution of soil seed populations. Their small effectiveness is probably related to the low chance of recurrent disturbance on the mound surface.
30244657|Arctic and alpine habitats occur along complex environmental gradients, and over an extensive geographical range. Despite some selective forces common to these habitats, evolutionary divergence among populations of arctic and alpine plants along this gradient is expected. Of particular significance, both in the context of life-history theory and for implications of climate change, are the few annual species that have adapted to the constraints of an unpredictable, short growing season. In this study, morphological, life-history and phenological characters were found to differ significantly among six widely distributed populations of the arctic-alpine annual Koenigia islandica. On the basis of morphology and life-history traits, populations from high latitudes, with the exception of Svalbard, performed better in simulated arctic conditions, whereas the low latitude alpine plants from Colorado showed enhanced performance under simulated alpine conditions. On the basis of phenology, the six populations can be clearly grouped into arctic, high latitude alpine and alpine populations: arctic plants were found to develop and flower earliest; alpine plants latest. Because these results were obtained using seeds harvested from plants first grown through a complete generation in growth chambers, they indicate strong genetic differentiation. We discuss possible adaptive explanations for observed differences among the six geographically divergent populations.
3683232|The successional dynamics of arthropod diversity in 18 abandoned agricultural fields (age 15-54 yr) at Cedar Creek, MN, USA were determined using sweep net sampling (44833 individuals of 618 species). Total arthropod species richness and equitability (J), but not abundance, increased significantly with field successional age. Herbivore and parasite species richness, but not detritivore and predator species richness, also increased significantly with field age. All of these arthropod variables were significantly positively correlated with plant species richness in the fields. When plant species richness was included as a covariate in regressions, there were no longer any significant effects of field age. These results supported the hypothesis that increases in arthropod diversity with field age are influenced by increases in plant diversity. The additional significant positive dependence of herbivore species richness on predator species richness suggests that predator-prey interactions may also influence the successional dynamics of arthropod diversity. Nine of the ten most common arthropod species decreased in abundance with field age, two of them significantly. The abundances of these two generalist forb-feeding species, Melanoplus femurrubrum (Orthoptera: Acrididae) and Scaphytopius acutus (Homoptera: Cicadellidae), each depended significantly on amount of forbs. The average body size of arthropod species (total and herbivores) decreased significantly with field age. An efficiency vs specialization hypothesis predicts such a decrease. Because plants in later secondary succession are generally less palatable, a diversity of smaller, potentially more specialized herbivores may have an advantage over larger and more efficient herbivores in later succession.
30243232|The presence and distribution of vertically-transmitted, asexual Neotyphodium/Epichlo endophytes in four species of widely distributed grasses, all members of the sub-family Pooideae, were determined at 57 spatiallydistinct sites across Sweden in naturally-occurring grass populations. While these endophytes are well-studied in agricultural systems, much less is known about their abundance and distribution in non-agricultural systems at larger scales across landscapes. We used two screening methods to detect endophytes: 1) visual inspection of fixed, stained grass shoots, and 2) immunoblot cards with monoclonal antibodies specific for Neotyphodiuml Epichlo endophytes. Infection frequency (i.e. the proportion of individuals) varied widely among species and among sites, a finding common to most studies performed in non-agricultural ecosystems. Festuca rubra had the highest overall infection frequency (23% visual screening, 27% immunoblot screening), while Deschampsia flexuosa (4%) and Poa trivialis (4%) had low frequencies of infection. None of the sampled Agrostis capillaris populations were infected. In F. rubra, the within-site infection frequency varied from 0 to 100%. A significant altitudinal gradient was found for F. rubra, with the infection frequency of the vertically-transmitted endophyte Epichlo festucae decreasing with increasing altitude above sea level. The high variation across and within grass species at different geographical locations that ours and others' studies reveal, agree with suggestions that agronomic model systems cannot be readily extrapolated to understand the ecological role of endophytes in native grasses in the wild. Further investigation into the underlying cause of the observed altitudinal gradient is required to understand broader-scale patterns in the distribution of endophyte-infected grasses.
3683034| We compare the results, benefits and disadvantages of two techniques for modelling wildlife species distribution: Logistic Regression and Overlap Analysis. While Logistic Regression uses mathematic equations to correlate variables with presence/absence of the species, Overlap Analysis simply combine variables with the presence points, eliminating the non-explanatory variables and recombining the others. Both techniques were performed in a Geographic Information System and we attempted to minimise the spatial autocorrelation of data. The species used was the Schreiber's green lizard Lacerta schreiberi and the study area was Portugal, using 10  10 km UTM squares. Both techniques identified the same group of variables as the most important for explaining the distribution of the species. Both techniques gave high average correct classification rates for the squares with presence of the species (79% for Logistic Regression and 92% for Overlap Analysis). Correct absence classification was higher with Logistic Regression (73%) than with Overlap Analysis (32%). Overlap Analysis tends to maximise the potential area of occurrence of the species, which induces a reduced correct classification of absences, since many absences will fall in the potential area. This is because a single presence in a given class of a variable makes all the area of that class to be considered as potential. The technique does not consider that the species may occasionally occupy an unfavourable region. Although, in Logistic Regression, modelling procedures are more complex and time-consuming, the results are more statistically robust. Moreover, Logistic Regression has the capability of associating probability of occurrence to the potential area. Overlap Analysis is very simple in building procedures and swift in obtaining reliable potential areas. It is a valid technique especially in exploratory analysis of species distributions or in the initial stages of research when data may be scarce. 
3683464|We examined the butterfly fauna at 62 sites in southeastern Sweden within a region exhibiting high variation in the landscape surrounding the studied grasslands. The landscape varied from an intensively-managed agricultural landscape with a large amount of open fields to a landscape with a high amount of deciduous forest/semi-natural grassland. We made 12179 observations of 57 species of butterflies. The amount of neighbouring deciduous forest/semi-natural grassland, with >25% tree and bush cover, was the most important environmental factor explaining the variation in the butterfly assemblages. Landscape analyses at three different spatial scales showed that the variation in butterfly assemblages could be explained only at the largest scale (radius 5000 m) and not at the smaller ones (radii 500 and 2000 m). Logistic regressions were used to predict presence/absence of butterfly species. Our study indicated that there may be critical thresholds for the amount of habitat at the landscape scale for several butterfly species as well as for species richness. For Melitaea athalia, there was a sharp increase in occupancy probability between 3 and 10% deciduous forests/semi-natural grasslands at the 5000-m scale. For 12 other species, the value for 50% probability of occurrence varied between 2 and 12% deciduous forest/semi-natural grassland. Species which had high occupancy probabilities in landscapes with a low amount of surrounding deciduous forests/semi-natural grasslands were significantly more mobile than others. Our study highlights the importance of applying a landscape perspective in conservation management, and that single-patch management might fail in maintaining a diverse butterfly assemblage.
3682888|It has been proposed that the interaction between life-history attributes of different organisms and disturbance characteristics play an important role in determining the successional pattern following a disturbance event. We compared the responses of vascular plants and bryophytes (mosses and hepatics) to variation in disturbance size and severity in an old-growth boreal forest during a four-year period. The experiment included two patch sizes (
3683461|Habitat associations of 40 bird species were analysed using data from a survey of 12892 garden sites throughout the United Kingdom between 1995 and 2002. Gradients in 20 garden habitat variables and 25 variables describing the surrounding local habitat were derived from Detrended Correspondence Analysis. The main garden axis explained 13.3% of variation in the data and described a gradient from sites containing and bounded by high levels of vegetation cover to open sites bounded by walls and fences. The main local axis explained 29.9% of variation in the data and described a gradient from rural to urban habitats. Higher probability of occurrence was detected in larger sites in 25 species and in smaller sites in four (urban-associated) species. Many species (22 out of 40) were significantly associated with the local gradient: seven species showed the highest probability of occurrence in sites within more urbanised habitats. Other species were most likely to occur in sites within rural or suburban habitats. Only five species showed a significant association with garden habitat gradient, four of these being most likely to occur in sites with highest vegetation cover. These associations were similar when controlling for garden size and for food provision in gardens. The results imply that the likelihood of many species occurring in gardens is dependent on the surrounding local habitat rather than the garden habitat. However, survey participants were likely to have "bird-friendly" gardens which may have reduced the variation in garden habitat across the sample. An assessment of the representativeness of survey sites is needed to further understand habitat associations of garden birds.
3683157|The availability of freshwater has been suggested to strongly influence the distribution of coastal otters Lutra lutra. The test this hypothesis, a study was undertaken on the relationships between otter distribution and freshwater availability in a coast where freshwater is a very scarce resource during the summer. In this area otters occur mostly in a few small coastal streams but feed largely in the sea. Twentynine streams were surveyed in the summer of 1990, and the presence/absence of otter signs was related to nine habitat variables. Freshwater availability was found to be the most important factor influencing the occurrence of otters in summer. It is suggested that otters favour large streams with good vegetation cover, for these are the most likely to maintain frestwater during the dry periods. The distribution of otter signs in streams was also analysed, and it was found that signs tend to concentrate particularly near the mouth of the streams. This habitat analysis has some conservation implications, indicating that the decrease of freshwater availability or quality of streams can make these unsuitable for otters, severely decreasing the areas suitable for the species in the southwest coast of Portugal.
3683600| The reasons that the northern tiger swallowtail butterfly Papilio canadensis does not move south of the Great Lakes hybrid zone, where it meets P. glaucus, may be largely due to natural temperature-induced stress on diapausing pupae. Temperatures of 36C for only four days killed all P. canadensis (from northern Michigan) and most of the Papilio troilus, a species that lives south of the hybrid zone (sympatrically with P. glaucus). In contrast, interspecific hybrids (P. glaucus mother  P. canadensis father) had significant adult eclosion or pupal survival at both 30 and 36C. All surviving hybrid pupae were only females (the heterogametic sex, which are known to express the prolonged diapause due to Haldane effects). The southern species, P. troilus, had almost all (81%) normal (non-deformed) adults eclose at 30C, whereas only 20% of the P. canadensis females and ca 30% of the P. canadensis males eclosed to produce non-deformed adults. Unlike the case with P. troilus and P. canadensis, no hybrid females eclosed at 30C (only males did). Unlike P. troilus and P. canadensis pupae, hybrid (female) pupae remain viable, some of which have already successfully emerged after the chamber experiments. A follow-up study using P. glaucus, P. canadensis (from Vermont), and their hybrids with more normal lower thermal regimes included (27, 30, 33, and 36C) again showed higher hybrid survival as uneclosed (living) pupae at 36C. In addition, P. glaucus and P. canadensis showed high mortality and wing deformity of eclosing adults at 36C, suggesting that geographic source of the P. canadensis may reflect differential tolerances of the extreme 36C temperature. 
3683398|Four of the eight hypotheses proposed in the literature for explaining the relationship between abundance and range size (the sampling artifact, phylogenetic non-independence, range position and resource breadth hypotheses) were tested by using atlas data for carabid beetles (Coleoptera, Carabidae) from Belgium, Denmark and the Netherlands. A positive relationship between abundance and partial range size was found in all three countries, and the variation in abundance was lower for widespread species. Analysis of the data did not support three of the proposed hypotheses, but did support the resource breadth hypothesis (species having broader environmental tolerances and being able to use a wider range or resources will have higher local densities and be more widely distributed than more specialised species). Examination of species' characteristics revealed that widespread species are generally large bodied, generalists (species with wide niche breadths occurring in a variety of habitat types) and are little influenced by human-altered landscapes, while species with restricted distributions are smaller bodied, specialists (species with small niche breadths occurring in only one or two habitat types), and favour natural habitat. Landscape alteration may be an important factor influencing carabid abundance and range size in these three countries with a long history of human-induced environmental changes.
3683656|The distribution of bryophytes in central Belgium was investigated using species grid-mapping superimposed on a series of maps which included information on soil conditions and land use. Our objectives were to assess the influence of environmental variation on the bryoflora at a regional scale, to examine how bryophytes respond to environmental variation, and to assess the extent to which species ecological and life-history traits determine the accuracy of the predictability of species occurrence in order to provide comprehensive lists of species based on environmental conditions. The first two axes of a correspondence analysis (CA) of the floristic data explained 14.6% of the total 
20696298|The potential distribution of critically rare or endangered species is necessary to assess species conservation status and guide recovery plans. Habitat models based on remotely sensed geospatial data are increasingly used to predict the suitability of sites for rare and endangered species, but in rapidly changing landscapes, habitat evaluations must reflect temporal as well as spatial variation of environmental suitability in order to properly inform management. We used field measurements of species occurrence, a 22-yr time series of satellite images, and the Maximum Entropy modeling approach (Maxent) to monitor spatio-temporal variation in habitat suitability of an endangered butterfly that uses riparian wetlands modified by beaver activity. We modeled the niche of the St. Francis' satyr Neonympha mitchellii francisci in an environment of remotely sensed metrics and projected the niche model over space and time to evaluate habitat dynamics and target sites for reintroduction efforts. Suitable habitat for the subspecies is currently distributed across the study area; however, most of the suitable area is unoccupied, and patches of the most suitable habitat have shifted over time in response to beaver activity and subsequent wetland succession, suggesting a negative interaction between dispersal limitation and landscape dynamics. Landcover changes complicate the recovery of critically threatened species such as N. m. francisci, but habitat monitoring over time can improve recovery plans, offer adaptive management strategies, and provide more exact criteria for species status assignment. Spatio-temporal extensions of the niche/habitat concept are made possible by long-term archives of remotely sensed data, and will likely prove most useful in rapidly changing landscapes.
3683408|The habitat mosaic was used to quantify connectivity between patches of different tick density of the notorious tick species Ixodes ricinus in an attempt to determine the cause of variations in tick abundance among apparently homogeneous sites in northern Spain. The analysis revealed that patches with high tick abundance are "stepping-stone" territories that, when removed from the landscape, cause large changes in connectivity. Sites with medium tick abundance do not cause such a critical transition in connectivity. Patches with low tick abundance, but optimal abiotic conditions for survival, are located within the minimum cost corridors network joining the patches, while those sites where the tick has been intermittently collected are located at variable distances from this network. Sites where the tick is consistently absent, but where the habitat is predicted to be suitable (old, heterogeneous forests of Quercus spp.) for the tick, are very separated from this main network of connections. These results suggest that tick distribution in a zone is highly affected not only by abiotic variables (vegetation and weather) but also by host movements. Dispersal of the tick is a function of how the hosts perceive the habitat, and the habitat's permeability to host movement. Permanent tick populations seem to be supported by the existence of these critical, high density patches, located at significant places within the habitat network.
3683758|It has been suggested that switching from the widely used Biological Species Concept to a Phylogenetic Species Concept, would result in the appearance of hitherto neglected patterns of endemism. The problem has mainly been analyzed with respect to endemic taxa and for rather limited geographical regions, but will here be analysed for the entire resident avifauna of sub-Saharan Africa. A database of African bird distributions was re-edited to create two new datasets representing 1572 biological species and 2098 phylogenetic species. Species richness patterns were virtually identical with the two taxonomies, and only subtle changes were found in the geographical variation in rangesize rarity sum. However, there were some differences in the most range-restricted species, with increased complexity of long-recognized centres of endemism. Overall, then, the large-scale biogeographic patterns are robust to changes in species concepts. This reflects the aggregated nature of endemism, with certain areas acting as "species pumps" and large intervening areas being characterised by a predominance of widespread species which distribute themselves in accordance with contemporary environmental conditions. The percentages of phylogenetic and threatened species captured in a BSC near-minimum set of 64 grid-cells and a PSC near-maximum set, with the same number of grid-cells, are very similar.
3683657|Nest site selection can have important fitness consequences in birds. I analysed the habitat characteristics of 392 nests of two sympatric raptor species (common buzzard Buteo buteo and goshawk Accipiter gentilis) in Germany and their relation to nest occupation rate and nest reproductive success. For common buzzard, multivariate models explained only small proportions of the variance in nest occupation rate and nest reproductive success (13-19%). Important variables related to nest occupation rate were human disturbances, intra- and interspecific neighbour density, the amount of forested area and nest tree crown cover. Variables related to nest site reproductive success also included human disturbance, intra- and interspecific neighbour density and nest tree crown cover as well as nest distance to the nearest forest edge. In contrast, models for the goshawk explained a much higher proportion of the variation in nest occupation rate and nest reproductive success (41-43%). Important variables related to nest occupation rate were the remoteness of the nest site and direct human disturbance. Variables related to nest site reproductive success were remoteness of the nest site and good hunting habitat. Goshawks seem to be more sensitive to human disturbance than buzzards. A multiple discriminant analysis showed that nest site characteristics substantially overlapped between the species and there is a good evidence that competition for optimal nest sites occurs. Thus, buzzards might be constrained by the dominant goshawk in their nest site selection.
3683358| Habitat associations of wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus, bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and field vole Microtus agrestis were analysed during a chronosequence study of succession in Sitka spruce Picea sitchensis plantations in Hamsterley Forest, northeast England. In mature plantations (ca 40 yr after planting), A. sylvaticus and C. glareolus were both abundant; in clear-felled areas the former was usually dominant; in young plantations (5-8 yr after planting) either of the three species was dominant at different sites. Pooling all sites, in young plantations rodent communities were most diverse, because of an inter-site component (-diversity), although within sites, young plantations and mature plantations had similar diversities. Clear-felled areas showed least rodent diversity. Detrended Correspondence Analysis was used to describe the taxonomic and structural changes in vegetation during succession. Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed that in young plantations C. glareolus was associated with dense ground cover, provided mostly by heather. Microtus agrestis was most commonly associated with Deschampsia flexuosa, whereas A. sylvaticus was not strongly associated with any plant species. Spatial heterogeneity in soils explained much of the inter-site variation in vegetation which in turn explained much of the -diversity of rodent communities in young plantations. 
3683830|Scaling is relevant for the analysis of plant-frugivore interaction, since the ecological and evolutionary outcomes of seed dispersal depend on the spatial and temporal scale at which frugivory patterns emerge. We analyse the relationship between fruit abundance and frugivore activity at local and landscape spatial scales in two different systems composed, respectively, by the bird-dispersed woody plants Juniperus communis and Bursera fagaroides, and their frugivore assemblages. We use a hierarchical approach of nested patchiness of fruit-resource, where patches are defined by individual plants within site, at the local scale, and by sites within region, at the landscape scale. The structure of patches is also described in terms of contrast (differences in fruit availability among patches) and aggregation (spatial distribution of patches). For J. communis, frugivore activity was positively related to fruit availability at the landscape scale, this pattern seldom emerging at the local scale; conversely, B. fagaroides showed a general trend of positive local pattern that disappeared at the landscape scale. These particular trends might be partially explained by differences in contrast and aggregation. The strong contrast among plants within site together with a high aggregation among sites would promote the B. fagaroides pattern to be only local, whereas in J. communis, low aggregation among sites within region would favour a sharp landscape-scale pattern. Both systems showed discordant patterns of fruit-resource tracking among consecutive spatial scales, but the sense of discordance differed among systems. These results, and the available multi-scale frugivory data, suggest that discordance among successive scales allows to link directly frugivory patterns to resource-tracking mechanisms acting at particular scales, resulting, thus, more informative than concordance observational data, in which landscape patterns might result from accumulated effect of local mechanisms. In this context, we propose new methodological approaches for a better understanding of the hierarchical behavioural mechanisms underpinning the multi-scale resource tracking by frugivores.
30243210|This study focuses on the long-term changes of collembolan communities occurring after the conversion of arable land to managed grassland. We analysed collembolan communities at grassland sites of different age that had been gradually converted over a period of 50 yr. Abundance and biomass responded rapidly and very positively to the conversion of arable land to grassland, while species richness was not affected. Collembolan assemblages changed only little during grassland maturation. The impact of land-use change on community structure was more obvious at the functional level because the colonization processes observed in our study mostly relied on hemiedaphic species. Vegetation and soil parameters were good predictors of collembolan community structure during development of managed grassland. The present study demonstrated that past landscape patterns and processes like land-use conversion and subsequent succession had a considerable impact on the present day pattern of species richness and community composition of Collembola within a landscape. Our results strongly differ from those obtained for other invertebrate groups, highlighting on the one hand the very diverse reactions of invertebrates to a common factor, and on the other hand the need to survey more than one taxa in order to draw conclusions on effects of land-use change on faunistic communities.
3683813|Australia's last mega-carnivore marsupial, the Tasmanian devil Sarcophilus harrisii, Dasyuridae is endemic to the island state of Tasmania. The recent appearance and rapid spread of a debilitating and usually lethal, cancer-like disease has raised concerns regarding the species' future. We used a demographic matrix modelling approach to evaluate the potential long-term implications of epidemics on this population. Both adult survival and temporally autocorrelated re-occurrence of disease were expressed as a function of female abundance. Large fluctuations in abundance resulted when disease outbreaks were conditioned to be density-dependent; however, this resulted in a low probability of quasi-extinction due to the dissipation of disease transmission at low densities. Epidemic stochasticity alone in an otherwise deterministic model resulted in major population cycles occurring every 77-146 yr, consistent with historical reports. Although epidemics in this species may not result in extinction directly, the contemporary presence of additional mortality sources during periods of low abundance may increase extinction risk.
3682956| Carabid beetles (Coleoptera, Carabidae) were collected by using pitfall traps in 68 sites on the land Islands, SW Finland. The sites were divided into four environmental types: 1) cultivated fields and grazed pastures, 2) recently abandoned fields, 3) abandoned, overgrown cultivations, and 4) forests. A total of 4901 carabids belonging to 77 species were caught. Twenty of the most abundant species were classified into four distributional types according to their occurrence among the various environmental types: 1) generalists (five species), 2) field species (five species), 3) species of open habitat (seven species), and 4) forest species (three species). Associations with environmental types were strictest among field species and forest species. However, most of the species were found in low numbers outside each preferred environmental type. The number of species and species diversity was highest in fields and pastures and lowest in forests, which agrees with previously detected patterns on the mainland Finland. Pairwise similarity of the carabid assemblages among the environmental types was highest between the two types of abandoned cultivations. The spatial distribution of two carabid species; Pterostichus melanarius and P. niger, were examined in detail to ascertain whether any interspecific interaction could help explain their different island-mainland distribution observed in previous studies. 
3682835|This paper describes roe deer Capreolus capreolus distribution in central Spain, where the species has spread from the mountains into peripheral agricultural areas. In this region, it is more abundant in forest fragments near the mountains than in those further away, in pine and oak woodlands than in sclerophyllous forests, and in forests with open water than in those lacking this resource. The paper also analyzes whether habitat quality and geographic location of forests with respect to roe deer source areas are the two basic causes of its distribution, as predicted by some models of the species distribution in fragmented landscapes. The results corroborate this hypothesis revealing that roe deer abundance is linked negatively to sclerophyllous forest cover and distance from mountains. We conclude that this type of farmland seems to be sub-optimal for roe deer in comparison with forested, moist mountains.
3683182|Eight populations of longleaved sundew Drosera intermedia Hayne ramets were studied in three hydrologically and phytosociologically differing heathland habitats over a 4 yr period: a pool edge, an old path through the wet heath, a seepage area. At the extreme sites, with high levels of water table fluctuations (pool edge and dry path), both survival and recruitment were low, resulting in small populations. The pool edge populations went extinct. At the less extreme sites (wet paths and seepage area), populations were stable, but ramet and genet turnover was higher at the path sites than in the seepage area. Demographic variation between populations was explained by differences in adult survival and sexual recruitment (asexual recruitment did not differ clearly), which, in turn, were related to specific biotic and abiotic factors. Likely adult mortality causes were summer drought (all habitats), winter frost (path habitat), cover with a crust of iron bacteria after heavy summer rainfall (seepage area) and shading by Sphagnum and algae (pool edge). Low seedling recruitment was caused by a low germination succes (pool, seepage area) and seedling survival (seepage area, dry path).
3683772|We assessed the dynamics of a population of spur-thighed tortoises, Testudo graeca, placed under long-term protection from human interference. We estimated demographic parameters and constructed vertical life tables based on age structures for two different study periods separated by a 12-yr interval. Average age at maturity was 6.9 yr for males and 8.5 yr for females. Clutch size varied with female size, but tended to be constant among years. Average annual female fecundity over 9 yr was 8.4 eggs and decreased significantly in years of high rainfall. Females seemed to reproduce yearly, but with a constantly low output, probably maximising both their long-term reproductive potential and the probability of producing offspring during favourable years for hatchling survival. Adult survival was high and constant between periods. Juvenile survivorship from egg to 6 yr and recruitment into the 5-8-yr-old cohorts were significantly higher in the second period. Life tables indicated a predominantly negative demographic trend for the first period, with an average population increase rate of 0.977, and an overall positive tendency for the second period, with an average increase rate of 1.091. These figures suggest that the population experienced a variation that was closer to the maximum estimates for the first period, mediated mainly by an increase in juvenile recruitment. The data indicate that, besides high adult survival rates, occasional high juvenile recruitment bouts may have an important regulatory effect on the population dynamics of Testudo graeca.
3683589| We have sampled populations of the parthenogenetic and polyploid earthworm Eiseniella tetraedra along the Ume, Vindel and Svar Rivers in northern Sweden. The Vindel River is one of the last free-flowing large rivers in NW Europe, while the Ume River, which flows parallel to it, is harnessed with twenty major dams. Clones were identified on the basis of overall enzyme phenotypes that were detected using starch gel electrophoresis. We found that clone pool diversity is higher along the Vindel River than along the Ume River and the clone pool similarity is, in a similar fashion, higher along the free-flowing river. Evidently the dams stop effectively clone dispersal along the Ume River. Clone diversity is highest at the river mouth. The small free-running Svar River had also high clone diversity at the lower course of the river. Clone turnover between years is high. We found no evidence for parallel adaptation of clones along the two rivers. 
3683027|It is a common assumption that species' ranges are limited by their physiological tolerances to climatic factors. Biotic factors, such as competition, are rarely considered. We investigated the distributions of Ulex minor and U. gallii at three spatial scales - from geographic ranges to individual heaths - to examine whether the species are negatively associated, as predicted by the hypothesis that the ranges of the species are limited by competition with each other. Distribution maps for the British Isles and France (100-400 km
3683377|Species-area relationships (SARs) of European butterfly species (Rhopalocera) appear to follow power functions with Mediterranean butterflies having a much higher slope value (z = 0.49) compared to the slope for the northern and eastern European countries (z = 0.10). A simulated process of species extinction by a stepwise density dependent random elimination of species affected species-area patterns differently. For Mediterranean countries SAR slopes decreased, for other European countries slopes increased during the extinction process. Comparisons of species numbers before and after extinction with those predicted by a classical SAR approach differed widely and revealed that SARs are not able to predict future species numbers at local scales. For Mediterranean countries the classical SAR approach underestimated the number of species remaining after simulated extinction, for all other European countries SARs highly overestimated species numbers. These contrasting patterns indicate that changes in SAR patterns do not unequivocally point to changes in species diversity or community structure as assumed by current theory. On the other hand, the results strongly indicate that simplified applications of SARs for forecasting might give misimpressions about species loss and future biodiversity if the initial community structure, especially relative densities and numbers of species with restricted range size, are not taken into account.
20696292|The ability to store energy is an important life history trait for organisms facing long periods without energy income, and in particular for capital breeders such as temperate zone amphibians, which rely on stored energy during reproduction. However, large scale comparative studies of energy stores in populations with different environmental constraints on energy allocation are scarce. We investigated energy storage patterns in spring (after hibernation and before reproduction) in eight common frog Rana temporaria populations exposed to different environmental conditions along a 1600 km latitudinal gradient across Scandinavia (range of annual activity period is 3-7 months). Analyses of lean body weight (eviscerated body mass), weight of fat bodies, liver weight, and liver fat content, showed that 1) post-hibernation/pre-breeding energy stores increased with increasing latitude in both sexes, 2) males generally had larger energy reserves than females and 3) the difference in energy stores between sexes decreased towards the north. Larger energy reserves towards the north can serve as a buffer against less predictable and/or less benign weather conditions during the short activity period, and may also represent a risk-averse tactic connected with a more pronounced iteroparous life history. In females, the continuous and overlapping vitellogenic activity in the north may also demand more reserves in early spring. The general sexual difference could be a consequence of the fact that, at the time of our sampling, females had already invested their energy into reproduction in the given year (i.e. their eggs were already ovulated), while the males' main reproductive activities (e.g. calling, mate searching, sexual competition) occurred later in the season.
3683849|We utilised genetic markers (ISSR's) to investigate population structuring in Crambe maritima, a coastal perennial found in isolated populations on either side of the English Channel. Despite the expectation that smaller populations would contain lower levels of genetic diversity, we found no correlation with total population size or the number of flowering plants and genetic diversity. Although populations were genetically differentiated from each other, isolation by distance was not apparent in the whole data set or within the UK samples. Despite being sampled from a wide geographic range, the majority of diversity (71%) was contained within populations, with no unique genotype, or even allele, identifying any population. When genetic distances were plotted using MDS techniques, samples from each population had a tendency to cluster, but the spread of points was wide indicating high levels of gene flow. High levels of gene flow, through the dispersal of seeds, were verified by assignment testing, which showed that 8.7% of individuals were assigned to a population other than the one they were collected from. The pattern of genetic variation can be explained by examining the direction of currents in the English Channel and Bay of Biscay. Gene flow, via seed dispersal, is possible between UK and French populations on either side of the English Channel. In contrast, French populations on the Bay of Biscay coast are effectively isolated by the direction of currents and consequently show a greater degree of genetic differentiation.
30244514|Range maps are often combined into "range overlap maps" to estimate spatial variation in species richness. Range maps are, in most cases, designed to represent a species' maximum geographical extent and not patterns of occupancy within the range. As a consequence, range maps overestimate occupancy by presenting false occupancy (errors of commission) within the interior of the range. To assess the implications of errors of commission when developing and applying range overlap maps, we used neutral landscapes to simulate range maps and patterns of occupancy within ranges. We explored several scenarios based on combinations of six parameters defining biogeographical and cartographic factors typically encountered by investigators. Our results suggest that, in general, uncertainty is lowest when map resolutions are moderately fine, the majority of species have geographically restricted ranges, species occur throughout their range, patterns of occupancy within the range are not correlated among species, and geographically local and widespread species tend to occupy different regions. Several of these outcomes are associated with broad geographical extents, the scale at which range overlap maps are typically applied. Thus, under most circumstances, reasonably accurate and precise representation of species richness patterns can be achieved. However, these representations can be improved by enhancing occupancy data for widespread species - a primary source of uncertainty - and selecting a map resolution that captures relevant biological and environmental heterogeneity. Hence, by determining where a study is situated within the scenarios examined in our simulations, uncertainty and its sources and implications can be ascertained. With this knowledge, research goals, methods, and data sources can be reassessed and refined and, in the end, conclusions and recommendations can be qualified. Alternatively, unique regional, taxonomic, or cartographic factors could be included in future simulations to provide direct assessments of uncertainty.
3683280| In the last two decades, several researchers have noted rodent population outbreaks in semiarid South America, in association with unusually high precipitation that seemingly concurs with El Nio events. To date, no studies have been conducted to determine the statistical relationships between ENSO (El Nio Southern Oscillation) events, increased precipitation, and rodent irruptions. Here we show that: 1) there is a statistical association between ENSO events and increased precipitation in the semiarid region of northern Chile; 2) the occurrence of rodent outbreaks in that region is statistically related with the precipitation levels of the same year; 3) the multi-annual patterns of the total annual precipitation levels and population abundance of those rodents during the summer are positively associated. The putative chain of effects seems to start with unusually high rainfall brought by ENSO to semiarid environments, which thus respond with increased primary productivity (herbage and seeds), which then fuels the rodent outbreaks. 
3682962|For a natural population of Allium ursinum age states are defined on the basis of morphological criteria. Differences in the dry matter economy of these age states illustrate the underlying life history. Most seeds rest several years in dormancy after maturity. It takes on average more than 6 yr until juvenile plants attain the dry matter threshold level for the production of an inflorescence. Flowering plants divert 41% of their dry matter gain during spring to reproductive parts (7% to the seeds). Since flowering plants show a marked negative annual dry matter balance, c. 81% of them are not able to flower again the next year. At the same expense of carbon reserves the formation of daughter bulbs results in a considerably higher number of new ramets than the production of seeds. Nevertheless, the investment in seed production is extraordinarily high in relation to other woodland perennials. This might be explained by the lack of an effective dispersal of the daughter bulbs. By vegetative propagation dense groups of adult ramets develop, which will finally undergo mutual shading.
3683335|The distribution of niches in resource space of darkling beetles of Negev desert, Israel were studied using discriminant analysis. Seventeen environmental variables (substrate structure and vegetation) were measured at 375 plots within 15 grids. The first three discriminant axes account for 77% of the variance and reflect a soil structure gradient from sand to clay (the first axis), a gradient of increasing productivity (the second axis), and a type of vegetation architecture (the third axis). Abundance and biomass of tenebrionids increased linearly along the first, the second and the third axes. Species richness and diversity had a slanting parabola shape along the substrate axis and increased along the productivity axis. There were two distinct spatial guilds of tenebrionid species. One guild was composed by species that preferred sandy-gravel soils, and another guild consisted of species that preferred clay soils. Niche overlapping of the "sandy-gravel" species was lower than that of the "clay" species. Niches of the "sandy-gravel" species were randomly distributed in the resource space. Those of the "clay" species formed a tight cluster with most niches placed in the center of the space, representing the centrifugal type of organization. The conformity of the guild structure with the different types of organization was supported by comparisons between empirical data and stochastic models. The border between these two guilds matches with proposed earlier biogeographical boundary (Ramon-Zohar line).
3682982|Gentiana pneumonanthe, the marsh gentian, is a declining species in both Britain and Europe as a result of loss of its heathland habitat or inappropriate management of that which remains. We analysed long-term demographic data sets (1977 - 1991) from four populations of the plant to test the hypotheses that an individual plant's survival and its chances of flowering in any year are related to its age and performance in previous years, taking into account the climatic conditions that existed in those years. The results show that: 1) 'new' plants (2 yr old) had a higher mortality rate (mean = 20.8%) than 'young' (3 yr old) plants (mean = 5.0%), which in turn had a higher mortality than older, 'mature' (four or more year old) plants (mean = 3.8%); 2) 'new' plants had a higher mortality rate after either a growing season with below average rainfall or an above average winter rainfall; 3) mortality of 'mature' plants was independent of age, indicating no evidence of senescence; 4) 'mature' plants had a higher mortality rate after above average rainfall during the previous winter; 5) plants that have flowered within the previous two years are most likely to flower in the current year indicating high individual variation in flowering performance; 6) more plants flower and flowering plants produced more flowers in the two years following a warmer than average growing season. The above factors are related to current site management and the implications are discussed. Suggestions are given for changes in management of the sites where this rare plant occurs.
3683588| We compared how breeding parameters differ according to prevailing weather conditions between a marginal, subarctic (69N) and temperate (61N) population of the pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca, a small migratory insectivorous passerine. We predicted that the effects of weather on breeding performance (clutch size, hatching success, nestling growth, fledging success) would be greater at northern latitudes, where the weather conditions are more extreme and unpredictable. We found that the breeding parameters, except clutch size, were not, however, inferior in the north. Northern birds, unlike the southern ones, responded to colder conditions by laying smaller clutches and maintaining a larger energy reserve (indicated by higher female body mass and higher levels of subcutaneous fat). If a cold spell occurred during the nestling period, southern flycatchers had 5-10% lower fledging success than the northern ones. Our results indicate that in the north, the breeding individuals coped with cold and variable weather better than the individuals in the southern population. This could be adaptive, because at high latitudes there is a higher probability of cold weather at the time of breeding. 
3683567|Reduction in amount of dead trees in Scandinavian forests due to intensive forest management has aroused interest in the requirements of saproxylic (wood-living) species. Much attention has been focused on Bolitophagus reticulatus, a tenebrionid beetle that lives on polypore fruiting bodies of Fomes fomentarius. Although earlier studies have suggested that the species has limited dispersal abilities, the beetle is abundant and widely distributed in Swedish forests. To resolve this paradox we conducted a series of field experiments. Firstly, the frequency of the species was found to be similar in six forest stands with a low density of fruiting bodies and six stands with a high density. Secondly, flying individuals were caught in window traps placed in all of eight randomly chosen, well-managed pine stands. Thirdly, we tested volatiles that flying beetles may use to find hosts by baiting window traps. We found strong attractions to ethanol and to a combination of ethanol and fruiting body. The dispersal period was almost entirely restricted to one week during the summer. Our results suggest that B. reticulatus is distributed wherever the host occurs. Long distance dispersal of B. reticulatus is difficult to observe, but appears to be effective when it does occur. Previously observed patchy distribution patterns of the species are probably due to short-distance movements being more frequent than long-distance movements. A general conclusion is that interpretations based on mark-recapture data and indirect measures of substrate and beetle occurrences that claims limited dispersal should be treated with caution.
30243146|I examined the effects of isolation on the structure of both adult and larval dragonfly (Odonata: Anisoptera) communities forming at physically identical artificial ponds over two years. Isolation, whether measured by distance to the nearest source habitat or by connectivity to multiple sources, was significantly negatively related to the species richness of dragonflies observed at and collected in these ponds. These results indicate that dispersal and recruitment limitation acted as filters on the richness of communities at these artificial ponds. The richness of larval recruits in artificial ponds was lower than the richness of adult dispersers observed at ponds, and distance from a source habitat explained a greater fraction of the variation in larval than adult richness (83 and 50%, respectively). These results and a male biased sex-ratio in adults observed at artificial ponds suggest that isolated habitats may be more recruitment limited than observations of dispersers would suggest. A Mantel test indicated there was a spatial component to the composition of communities forming in tanks, and that distance between tanks and community dissimilarity (1-Jaccard's) were significantly positively related (r = 0.52). This pattern suggests that their position with respect to alternative source environments influenced the composition of the communities that recruited into these ponds. These results provide further evidence of recruitment limitation in this system. Results from this study highlight the importance behaviorally limited dispersal may have in taxa morphologically capable of broad dispersal and suggest that the role of dispersal and recruitment limitation may be critical in shaping community structure across habitat gradients that include variation in habitat duration.
3682906|Natal dispersal, territoriality and reproductive success can have a major impact on the range, genetics and risk of extinction of a population. The proportions of animals that disperse have often been investigated, but not their fate. We have studied the lifetime reproductive success of arctic foxes that successfully emigrated, travelled and settled. Of these, some settled in the vicinity of their natal site as residents and some immigrated from other areas, i.e. short- and long-range dispersers respectively. We found no sex bias in migration patterns. In presaturation years, more immigrants than residents settled. Immigrant females had higher reproductive success than resident females. There was strong support for the ultimate hypothesis of Competition For Resources (CFR), but not for the hypotheses of Competition For Mates (CFM), Resident Fitness (RFH) and Inbreeding Avoidance (IA). Our data on arctic foxes could not be fully explained by any of four proximate hypotheses. We suggest that the reason is that dispersal and establishment should be considered as state dependent life history characteristics of individuals rather than population averages.
30243249|Certain species play particularly large roles in ecosystems, and are often referred to as keystones. However, little is known about the interactive effects of these species where they co-occur. Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) and banner-tailed kangaroo rats Dipodomys spectabilis are commonly considered keystone species of grassland ecosystems, creating a mosaic of unique habitats on the landscape through ecosystem engineering and herbivory. We examined the separate and interactive effects of these species on the structure of grassland arthropod communities. We conducted a cross-site study at two locations in the northern Chihuahuan Desert, and evaluated the impacts of these rodents on ground-dwelling arthropod and grasshopper communities in areas where prairie dogs and kangaroo rats co-occurred compared to areas where each rodent species occurred alone. Our results demonstrate that prairie dogs (C gunnisoni and C. ludovicianus) and banner-tailed kangaroo rats had keystone-level impacts on arthropod communities both separately and interactively. Their burrow systems provided important habitats for multiple trophic and taxonomic groups of arthropods, and increased overall arthropod abundance and species richness. Many arthropods also were attracted to the aboveground habitats around the mounds and across the landscapes where the rodents occurred. Detritivores, predators, ants, grasshoppers, and rare rodent burrow inhabitants were especially associated with prairie dog and kangaroo rat activity. The impacts of prairie dogs and kangaroo rats were unique, and the habitats they created supported different assemblages of arthropods. Where both rodent species co-occurred, there was greater heterogeneity and arthropod diversity on the landscape. Our results suggest that the interaction of multiple keystones, especially those with engineering roles, results in unique and more diverse communities in time and space.
3683235| There has been a recent resurgence of interest in documenting and explaining patterns of species' range sizes with the goal of determining if general patterns exist. Much recent debate has centered on whether Rapoport's rule, the tendency for range size to increase with increasing latitude, is a general rule or a local effect. I calculated the sizes of turtle species ranges from distribution maps and used published natural history data to examine how range size varies with latitude, and to determine if differences in range size exist among continents, and if correlations with body size, available land area, habitat and diet breadth exist. The distribution of turtle range sizes extended over six orders of magnitude and formed a lognormal distribution with many species having moderate or small ranges and few species having large ranges. Range size was positively correlated with available land area, habitat breadth, diet breadth, and body size. Multiple regression accounted for only 39% of the variance in range size indicating that other important factors remain unknown. At both global and continental scales, range size is largest near the equator and decreases with increasing latitude, the opposite of Rapoport's rule. However, range size did increase latitudinally above 25-30N in both the Neararctic and Palearctic suggesting that the pattern would be more accurately considered a local effect than a general rule. Larger range sizes at low latitudes may occur because more land area in the tropics provides much suitable habitat for ectotherms and there are few large scale physical barriers to dispersal. Rapoport patterns result from the occurrence of a small number of wide-ranging cold tolerant species that have reinvaded northern latitudes after Pleistocene glaciation. Patterns of the longitudinal and latitudinal extents of species ranges and their positions illustrate the importance of climate, mountain ranges, deserts, and coastlines, as barriers potentially affecting range size. 
3683162|Sexual dimorphism in size, shape, and mass relative to length, and sex ratios are quantified for populations of Hyphydrus ovatus, a dytiscid beetle. Males of H. ovatus are not only longer than females, but also significantly larger in elytron length, thorax width, head width, leg length, total width, total depth, and abdominal segment length. Two local populations differ slightly but significantly in total depth and abdominal segment length, but sexual dimorphism in size is similar for the two populations. Hyphydrus ovatus are also sexually dimorphic in shape, with males having relatively broader heads and thoraxes than females. The two populations differed slightly but significantly in relative abdominal segment length, but as with size, sexual dimorphism in shape is similar for the two populations. Males are relatively heavier than females, although the slope of the log mass vs log length relationship is the same for the two sexes. Sex ratios in field samples vary significantly over the summer, with percent females declining from c. 50% to c. 15%. Sex ratios are significantly below 50% females in two of five monthly samples and in the total pooled set of samples. Sexual dimorphism in size, shape, and relative mass, combined with male-biased sex ratios suggest that larger size of male H. ovatus is a product of sexual selection.
3683603| While exotic plant species often come to dominate disturbed communities, long-term patterns of invasion are poorly known. Here we present data from 40 yr of continuous vegetation sampling, documenting the temporal distribution of exotic plant species in old field succession. The relative cover of exotic species decreased with time since abandonment, with significant declines occurring  20 yr post-abandonment. The number of exotic species per plot also declined with time since abandonment while field-scale richness of exotics did not change. This suggests displacement occurring at small spatial scales. Life history types changed from short-lived herbaceous species to long-lived woody species for both native and exotic plant species. However, shrubs and lianas dominated woody cover of exotic plants while trees dominated native woody cover. The species richness of exotic and native species was positively correlated at most times. In abandoned hay fields, however, the proportion of exotic plant cover per plot was inversely related to total species richness. This relationship suggests that it is not the presence, but the abundance of exotic species that may cause a reduction in community diversity. While the development of closed-canopy forest appears to limit most introduced plant species, several shade-adapted exotic species are increasing within the fields. These invasions may cause a reversal of the patterns seen in the first 40 yr of succession and may result in further impacts on community structure. 
3683021| Life-history theory allows predictions of how changes in environmental selection pressures along a species' geographic distribution result in discrete shifts in life-history traits. We tested for spatial patterns of 24 populations of brown bears Ursus arctos across North America that grouped according to the following environmental and population parameters: evapotranspiration as a correlate of primary productivity of vegetation, coefficient of variation of monthly evapotranspiration values as a measure of seasonality, population density, and adult female weight. Cluster analysis grouped brown bear populations into two regions: Pacific-coastal populations characterized by high population density and large females that lived in areas of high primary productivity and low seasonality, and inland and barren-ground populations characterized by relatively low density and small bears that lived in areas of low productivity and high seasonality. For each region, we tested whether life-history traits (age at maturity and interbirth interval) related to primary productivity or seasonality. High altitude (interior; > 1000 m) and high latitude (barren-ground; > 65N) populations respond to extremes in seasonality with risk-spreading adaptations. For example, age at maturity and interbirth interval increased with greater seasonality. In contrast, Pacific-coastal populations living on the western edge of brown bear geographic range respond to intraspecific competition at high densities by maximizing offspring competitive ability. For example, age at maturity increased with greater primary productivity and high population density. In each region, the female parent decided on the life-history trade-offs required to reduce the risks of offspring mortality depending on the environmental pattern. 
30244604|Animal community dynamics in changing landscapes are primarily driven by changes in vegetation structure and ultimately by how species respond to these changes and at which spatial scale. We consider two major components of local community dynamics, species colonisation and extinction. We hypothesise that 1) the optimal spatial extent needed to accurately predict them will differ between these two processes; 2) it will also likely differ from species to species as a result of life history traits differences related to differences in habitat selection and 3) that a species' primary habitat will determine the spatial extent at which it perceives change in vegetation structure. We used data collected over 25 yr in a changing Mediterranean landscape to study bird species local colonisation and extinction patterns in two groups of species typical from two habitats: open farmland and woodland. Vegetation changes were measured at spatial extents ranging from 0.2 to 79 ha. Local species colonisation and extinction estimates were computed using a method accounting for heterogeneity in detection probability among species. We built linear models between local species colonisation/ extinction estimates and vegetation changes and examined variations in model quality with respect to the spatial extent at which vegetation changes had been measured. Models for open habitat species showed that colonisation processes operated at the landscape scale (79 ha), while extinction was more tightly linked to local habitat requirements (0.2 ha). Models for woodland species presented a low and constant model quality whatever the spatial extent considered. Our results suggest that the dynamics of the woodland species considered responded to a combination of vegetation changes at several scales and, in particular, to changes in the vertical structure of the vegetation. We highlight the need to explicitly consider spatial extent in studies of habitat selection and of habitat and population dynamics to improve our understanding of the biological consequences of land use changes and guide more effective conservation efforts.
3683116|Habitat use of mallard Anas platyrhynchos, teal A. crecca, wigeon A. penelope and goldeneye Bucephala clangula was studied in southern Finland during 1988-1991. Emphasis included evaluation of the importance of food and vegetation structure and revealing of the patterns of habitat use throughout the breeding season. Average lake scores of pairs, broods, and juveniles of all species were on the luxuriant end of a principal component analysis axis describing habitat structure. A more detailed examination, however, revealed clear differences in habitat distributions both between and within species. Generally, habitat distributions seemed to shift toward the luxuriant from pairs to broods. However, goldeneye juveniles used both the most luxuriant and the poorest habitats more than expected. When all phases of the breeding cycle are considered, habitat luxuriance seemed to be more important for dabbling ducks and nektonic invertebrates more important for the goldeneye. Emerging insects were most important to the teal.
30244586|Information to guide decision making is especially urgent in human dominated landscapes in the tropics, where urban and agricultural frontiers are still expanding in an unplanned manner. Nevertheless, most studies that have investigated the influence of landscape structure on species distribution have not considered the heterogeneity of altered habitats of the matrix, which is usually high in human dominated landscapes. Using the distribution of small mammals in forest remnants and in the four main altered habitats in an Atlantic forest landscape, we investigated 1) how explanatory power of models describing species distribution in forest remnants varies between landscape structure variables that do or do not incorporate matrix quality and 2) the importance of spatial scale for analyzing the influence of landscape structure. We used standardized sampling in remnants and altered habitats to generate two indices of habitat quality, corresponding to the abundance and to the occurrence of small mammals. For each remnant, we calculated habitat quantity and connectivity in different spatial scales, considering or not the quality of surrounding habitats. The incorporation of matrix quality increased model explanatory power across all spatial scales for half the species that occurred in the matrix, but only when taking into account the distance between habitat patches (connectivity). These connectivity models were also less affected by spatial scale than habitat quantity models. The few consistent responses to the variation in spatial scales indicate that despite their small size, small mammals perceive landscape features at large spatial scales. Matrix quality index corresponding to species occurrence presented a better or similar performance compared to that of species abundance. Results indicate the importance of the matrix for the dynamics of fragmented landscapes and suggest that relatively simple indices can improve our understanding of species distribution, and could be applied in modeling, monitoring and managing complex tropical landscapes.
3682976|Here we analyse one of the largest insect samples taken so far from a tropical savannah habitat. We used insecticidal mist blowing to spray the canopy of 31 trees of six Acacia species, and obtained 41 099 insects of 492 recognisable taxonomic units (RTUs). In most cases, there were significant differences between individual trees between and within tree species with regard to their insect community. After we performed a standardisation procedure because of unequal sample size, cluster analysis showed that most tree species formed more or less distinct clusters, indicating a moderate level of insect host specificity. Considered by tree localities, clear clusters were visible only if one tree species was sampled. This finding suggests that there is no significant overlap in the insect communities between tree species at a local scale. We carried out a multivariate analysis of insect diversity using four different diversity measurements. Results differed depending on the measurement used and no significant association of simple tree characteristics, such as height, with insect diversity was detectable. Instead, time of the day and ant biomass seem to be of greater importance. These results emphasise the importance of using different diversity measurements to evaluate habitats with regard to their conservation value.
3683670|Studies concerning the influence of forest management on invertebrate communities often focus on a limited set of chosen variables and rarely quantify the importance of management as opposed to other influences. We aimed at: 1) comparing the importance for species assemblages of habitat variables defined by management with those independent of it; 2) understanding the ecological significance of the variation remaining when both management and non-management variables are used. We caught carabid beetles according to a stratified pitfall sampling based on forest structure, tree composition and stand age. Forty-nine habitat variables were measured using three spatial scales. We decomposed the variation of species assemblages with successive constrained ordinations based on sets of variables, and studied the life traits of the species least and best explained by the model including all of the variables. Forest structure, composition and stand age showed important effects but explained a relatively small part of the overall variation in species assemblages. Management accounted for ca 30% of the variation, but non-management variables had a significant impact and the interaction between management and non-management sets resulted in significant influences. Most species for which the variation was highly explained by the model were generally large and with inefficient wings, while the least explained species were small. Our study suggests that: 1) even with highly controlled samples, the influence of management on species assemblages should not be studied by a limited set of categorical variables; 2) management variables may interact with factors outside of the manager's control; 3) a significant part of the variation cannot be explained by habitat variables and needs taking ecological processes into account; 4) rules to optimise constrained ordination techniques applied to species-habitat studies can be proposed.
30243260|BIOMOD is a computer platform for ensemble forecasting of species distributions, enabling the treatment of a range of methodological uncertainties in models and the examination of species-environment relationships. BIOMOD includes the ability to model species distributions with several techniques, test models with a wide range of approaches, project species distributions into different environmental conditions (e.g. climate or land use change scenarios) and dispersal functions. It allows assessing species temporal turnover, plot species response curves, and test the strength of species interactions with predictor variables. BIOMOD is implemented in R and is a freeware, open source, package.
30243157|We studied how two methods to promote biodiversity in managed forests, i.e. green tree retention and prescribed fire, affect the assemblages of carabid beetles. Our experiment consisted of 24 study sites, each 3-5 ha in size, which had been prepared according to factorial design. Each of the eight treatment combinations determined by the two factors explored - tree retention level (0, 10, 50 m ha and uncut controls) and prescribed use of fire (yes/no) - was replicated three times. We sampled carabids using pitfall traps one year after the treatments. Significantly more individuals were caught in most of the burned sites, but this difference was partially reflective of the trap-catches of Pterostichus adstrictus. The fire did not increase no. of P. adstrictus in the uncut sites as much as in the other sites. Species richness was significantly affected by both factors, being higher in the burned than in the unburned sites and in the harvested than in the unharvested sites. Many species were concentrated in the groups of retention trees in the burned sites, but only a few were in the unburned sites. The species turnover was greater in the burned than in the unburned sites, as indicated by the NMDS ordinations. Greater numbers of smaller sized species and proportion of brachypterous species were present in the burned sites. Fire-favored species, and also the majority of other species that prefer open habitats were more abundantly caught in the burned sites than in the unburned sites. Dead wood or logging waste around the traps did not correlate with the occurrence of species. We conclude that carabids are well adapted to disturbances, and that frequent use of prescribed fire is essential for the maintenance of natural assemblages of carabid beetles in the boreal forest. Small retention tree groups can not maintain assemblages of uncut forest, but they can be important by providing food, shelter and breeding sites for many species, particularly in the burned sites.
30243251|Estimating abundance is important in many ecological studies in order to understand the spatial and temporal dynamics of a population, which can assist in management and conservation. However, direct estimates of abundance can be difficult and expensive to obtain, particularly for wide-ranging, rare or elusive species. An alternative - estimating from detection-nondetection data - is a challenging but alluring concept to ecologists since the cost and effort of a study can be greatly reduced. This paper describes a method for estimating the abundance of randomly distributed or aggregated populations by using binary data where the probability of detection is less than one. The performances of the models were evaluated by computer simulations comprising 1620 cases. The results show that the accuracy of the abundance estimates increases as the sampling rate, efficiency of survey method, and the number of repeated surveys increase, whereas the accuracy declines as individuals become more aggregated. For a randomly distributed population, using a sampling rate of 0.05 in a survey method with a detection probability of 0.5, and repeating surveys three times provides sufficient accuracy of abundance. For an aggregated population, to achieve reasonably accurate abundance estimates the sampling rate should be doubled and each cell should be repeatedly surveyed on 4 to 6 occasions.
30244637|Bobcats are opportunistic felids occurring in a diverse range of habitats and with a widespread distribution from southern Canada to southern Mexico. To explore why the bobcat's distribution stops at the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, we modelled the ecological niches, projected as potential distributions, of the felid community (bobcat Lynx rufus, puma Puma concolor, jaguar Panthera onca, margay Leopardus wiedii, jaguarundi Herpailurus yagouaroundi, and ocelot Leopardus pardalis) in southern Mexico, using occurrence data, environmental maps, the computer algorithm GARP, and a GIS platform. The resulting geographical projection of the ecological niche of bobcats extends south of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, suggesting that ecological conditions exist for the establishment of populations. The overlap of the modelled distribution of the bobcat was large with that of the puma (97%), but low with that of the ocelot (44%), margay (46%), jaguar (49%), and jaguarundi (52%), the latter three having relatively similar size and feeding habits to bobcats. Moreover, an independent analysis computing a geographic co-occurrence index showed a similar trend of geographic avoidance (values <-4.60 showing a statistically significant anti-correlation) between bobcats with the margay, ocelot, jaguarundi, and jaguar, but not with the puma (values > 0.15), while all felids, except bobcats, showed a geographic co-occurrence in southern Mexico (values ranging from -1.91 to 4.71). The Isthmus of Tehuantepec, a lowland region with subtropical habitat, is unlikely to serve as a geographic and ecological barrier to bobcats. As mammal inventories have been conducted for over a century in this region with no records of bobcats, it is unlikely that bobcats are present but have just not been seen. Fossil records also provide no support for the presence of bobcats in that region in the past. Thus, competitive interactions with other felid species appear important in limiting the southern distribution of bobcats, preventing dispersal to a suitable but geographically reduced area south of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec.
3682854|Studies which attempt to explain rarity within lineages are becoming increasingly popular. An ability to explain causative factors for rarity based on shared characteristics is an intuitively attractive concept, since it may greatly reduce the number of studies needed to understand rarity in all species. Most studies have used the taxonomic unit of family as the level at which patterns in the distribution of rarity are examined, though no justification for the use of family has been provided. To date, no evidence has been produced to show that family-based patterns represent patterns at lower taxonomic levels. To test whether family-based levels of rarity reliably reflected generic levels, I compared the incidence of rarity within 114 genera from 47 families. 113 genera (> 99%) within 46 families showed no difference from family means in the proportion of rare species they contained, indicating that the incidence of rarity is consistent between the taxonomic levels of family and genus. This result suggests family level patterns reflect pattern at lower taxonomic levels and supports the use of family as an appropriate level to investigate patterns in the distribution of rarity within a flora.
3683390|Species density, pattern diversity and species pool are often studied in isolation and correlated individually to environmental gradients. However analysis of how these three measures interrelate can give insights into the interpretation of local and regional processes. In addition, an understanding of how these diversity measures change across the natural distribution of a community may help in decision making processes regarding reservation. Temperate eucalypt woodlands in eastern Australia are one of the most visible and ubiquitous communities in eastern Australia, but have undergone one of the most significant modification and fragmentation processes due to past and current pressure to clear for agriculture. Data from 176 vascular plant survey sites sampled across 14 woodland assemblages are used here to analyse geographic gradients in species density, pattern diversity and species pool size. It was discovered that species density was significantly correlated to pattern diversity and species pool size but that pattern diversity and species pool size were uncorrelated. There was a significant relationship whereby species density increased as pattern diversity decreased. These patterns may be explained by the maintenance of interconnectedness, dispersal and rescue effects at this scale of investigation but local interactions cannot be ruled out as important. Generally species density and species pool size increased from west to east in the study area and pattern diversity was strongly correlated to the coldest minimum winter temperatures. It is suggested that if local woodland richness is maintained by low pattern diversity and greater habitat connectedness then larger reserves are required in order to maintain the largest area of contiguous habitat. In such situations small isolated patches, which are increasingly fragmented by the pressure to clear for agriculture will accumulate larger extinction debts.
3683348| The clonal diversity of four populations of the vegetatively propagating grass Calamagrostis epigejos was studied with isozyme markers. From each population, 100 individuals were sampled within a 10  10 m grid. In two populations of unpolluted sites 5 and 10 clones were distinguished, respectively. Higher levels of clonal diversity were found in the populations at an abandoned sewage farm (59 clones) and around a copper smelter (92 clones). The level of clonal diversity observed suggests that sexual recruitment is important for the genetic structure in this species. On the unpolluted, presumably more suitable habitats, the clonal diversity was lower than on the habitats polluted with heavy metals. The results are discussed in relation to environmental stress and habitat heterogeneity, with the conclusion that in the unpolluted habitats intraspecific competition results in low clonal diversity. On the other hand, stressful conditions decrease the importance of competition and facilitate the coexistence of a great number of clones. 
30243121|The existence of periodic oscillations in populations of forest Lepidoptera is well known. While information exists on how the periods of oscillations vary among different species, there is little prior evidence of variation in periodicity within the range of a single Lepidopteran species. The exotic gypsy moth is an introduced foliagefeeding insect in North America. Its populations are characterized by high amplitude oscillations between innocuously low densities and outbreak levels during which large regions of forests are defoliated. These outbreaks are recognized to arise periodically with considerable synchrony across much of the gypsy moth's North American range. Our analysis indicates that gypsy moth outbreaks in North America are periodic but they exhibit two dominant periodicities: a primary period of 8-10 yr (as previously reported) and a secondary period of 4-5 yr (a new finding in this study). The outbreak periodicity varied geographically and this variation was associated with forest type. We found that in the most susceptible forest types, those on xeric sites where oak is often mixed with pines, outbreak periodicity had a more dominant 5-yr period while in forest types characteristic of more mesic sites where oak was mixed with maples and other species, cycles were clearly operating on a 10-yr period.
30243274|Nestling brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater typically hatch earlier and grow faster than young of the many host species of this generalist obligate brood parasite. However, a cowbird chick also benefits from the presence of some host nest mates as the parasite is provisioned disproportionately more with increasing brood size. Since asynchronous hatching affects both cowbird and host nestlings' growth and survival, mechanisms that optimize the timing of egg-laying by female parasites should be prevalent. Several habitat features might facilitate optimal timing of parasitic egg-laying and we examined whether aspects of host nesting habitat predicted cowbird hatching synchrony. We tested whether synchronous nests were less concealed, closer to perches, and located in areas of higher host density than asynchronous nests using a broad-scale information theoretic approach. There was no support for these predictions regarding song sparrow (Melospiza melodia; n = 55) or yellow warbler (Dendroica petechia; n = 67) nests parasitized by brown-headed cowbirds at Mono Lake, USA. For example, the best statistical models for predicting hatching synchrony in yellow warbler nests included nesting-patch width and nest-substrate shrub species. However, these relationships were relatively weak: both synchronous and asynchronous nests were in patches with statistically indistinguishable widths and the two dominant shrub species at our site contained similar proportions of synchronous and asynchronous nests. We conclude that the variability of host nesting habitats does not contribute to a biologically consistent effect on hatching synchrony by this generalist brood parasite.
3683392|Ecosystems are rapidly being altered and destabilized on a global scale, threatening native biota and compromising vital services provided to human society. We need to better understand the processes that can undermine ecosystem integrity (resistance-resilience) in order to devise strategies to ameliorate this trend. We used a herpetofaunal assemblage to first assess spatial patterns of biodiversity and then to discover the underlying landscape processes likely responsible for these patterns. Reptiles and amphibians are a phylogenetically diverse set of species with documented sensitivity to environmental perturbations. We examined ecogeographic patterns of these taxa in aquatic and riparian environments across the landscape mosaic of the Mattole River watershed of northern California, USA. We analyzed species distributions relative to three primary vegetation types (grassland, second-growth forest, late-seral forest) and two hydrologic regimes (perennial vs intermittent). We sought evidence for the processes behind these patterns by modeling animal distributions relative to multi-scale compositional, structural, and physical attributes of the vegetation or hydrologic type. Total herpetofaunal diversity was higher along perennial streams, with reptile diversity higher in mixed grassland. Amphibian and reptile richness, and reptile evenness, varied significantly among the three vegetations. Evidence indicated that distinct assemblages were associated with each end of a seral continuum. Four amphibians were more abundant in late-seral forest, while two amphibians and two reptiles were more abundant in second-growth forest, or mixed grassland, or both. Two amphibians were more abundant along intermittent streams. Models for predicting reptile richness, or abundances of the two amphibian assemblages, indicated water temperature was the best predictor variable. Based on these results and the physiological limits of several sensitive species, we determined the primary processes influencing faunal assemblage patterns on this landscape have been vegetation changes resulting from the harvesting of late-seral forests and the clearing of forest for pasture. Comparing past with present landscape mosaics indicated that these changes have transformed the dominant amphibian and reptile species assemblage from a mostly cold-water and cool forest-associated assemblage to one now dominated by warm-water and mixed grassland/woodland species.
3683288|This study evaluated the effect of inter-tree variation in the bud phenology of Picea glehnii on susceptibility to the shoot-boring sawfly, Pleroneura piceae, and found that individual susceptibility fluctuates from year to year. The mechanism for the fluctuation between 1994 and 1997 is discussed. Inter-tree difference in the time of bud swelling is probably genetically based, since most of the trees that began to swell early in 1995 also swelled early in 1997, and those that began to swell late also did so in both years. Damage severity of each tree was evaluated by damage ratio: proportion of the number of damaged current shoots on the previous year's leader shoot. The rank of the bud swelling phenology of a tree was positively correlated to the rank of the damage ratio. This means that genetically based differences in phenology could explain why some trees are subjected to higher levels of herbivory than others. There was year-to-year variation in the damage severity for each tree. Nevertheless, no significant differences were found in the rank of the damage ratio between years. However the standard deviation of the damage ratios of each tree was highest for trees of intermediate rank. The skew of the frequency distribution of damage ratio was negatively correlated to the cumulated daily mean temperature in spring, which means that the spruce is more susceptible to the sawfly in warm springs than in cool springs. The mean growth rate of the lightly damaged trees increased constantly, while that of the heavily damaged trees seemed to reach a limit and then became lower than that of the lightly damaged trees.
3683604|The marsh fritillary butterfly Euphydryas aurinia is an endangered species in most of northern Europe. We describe the metapopulation structure of E. aurinia in Finland, where the species has declined drastically in the past decades. We found two types of habitat patches suitable for the species: semi-permanent meadows and transient clearcuts in the forest. Patch area was the most significant variable predicting the occurrence of E. aurinia in a habitat patch. The species tended to be found in young rather than old clearcuts, apparently because the vegetation became too high in the latter. We used the incidence function model to simulate the metapopulation dynamics of E. aurinia in its dynamic landscape and discovered that the continued presence of the semi-permanent meadows is essential for the survival of the species in the study area in southeast Finland.
30244606|The spatial distribution of wildlife hosts and the associated environmental distribution of their excretory products are important factors associated with the risk of disease transmission between wildlife and livestock. At a landscape scale, heterogeneous distribution of a wildlife host will create regional hot spots for disease risk, while at the farm level, distributional patterns of wildlife excretory products as well as habitat use are of primary importance to the assessment of disease risk to livestock. In the UK, badgers have been implicated in the transmission of bovine tuberculosis to cattle. In this study, we focus on the spatial and social organization and habitat use of badgers as well as the distributions of their excretions at latrine and sett sites to assess intra- and inter-species (badger-cattle) disease risk. Across the study site, badger latrines and setts were found in prominent clusters, at distances of up to 250 and 200 m respectively. This was partly due to small-scale clustering of latrines around sett sites, so that disease risk may be higher within the vicinity of setts. The clustered distribution suggests that sites of high risk for TB transmission may be localised within farms. Exclusion of cattle from the few sett and latrine sites within their grazing pasture is therefore likely to provide an effective way of reducing the risk of disease transmission. We also found evidence of social sub-division within badger social groups based on differences in the use of main and outlier setts. This may contribute to localised clusters of infection within the badger population, resulting in heterogeneous patterns of environmental disease risk to the wider host community. A greater understanding of variation in host behaviour and its implications for patterns of disease will allow the development of more targeted and effective management strategies for wildlife disease in group-living hosts.
3683286|Effects of ambient UV-B radiation and pH on hatchability and early development of Rana temporaria embryos were studied in field experiments conducted at two sites in Sweden. In neither of the populations did we find clear evidence for reduced hatchability or increased frequency of developmental anomalies of embryos exposed to ambient UV-B levels. However, in both populations hatchling size was significantly larger in UV-B blocked as compared to control treatments, suggesting that ambient UV-B levels had a negative effect on early growth of embryos. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that the cellular UV-B damage repair mechanisms are costly and trades-off against early growth. Alternatively, UV-B induced photoproducts inhibiting DNA-transcription and thereby protein synthesis may directly reduce growth rate. Although low pH (5.0) had negative effects on hatchability and early embryonic growth, there was no evidence for synergistic effects of pH and UV-B on hatchability, frequency of developmental anomalies or early growth. The results suggest that increased levels of UV-B radiation may cause fitness loss in natural populations of the common frog.
3682967|Samples of soil from six forest stands of different age and composition were collected, and the seedlings emerging during germination experiments were recorded. Total seed bank densities varied between 2230 and
3683054|Landscape parameters extracted from classified SPOT satellite imagery are used as independent variables for predicting potential habitat areas of the barn owl Tyto alba in a landscape north-east of Brussels, Belgium. Field data on the nest sites, recorded during 9 yr, are used as the dependent variable. A canonical correlation analysis of the landscape characteristics of 'successful breeding and non-breeding sites' selects a set of most significant parameters contributing to the distinction between suitable and unsuitable breeding habitat: parameters measuring the spatial configuration and fragmentation of landscape elements, such as deciduous woods and grasslands, in combination with some visual characteristics of the open spaces in the landscape. The selected set of parameters formed the basis for the calculation of a habitat model, whereby potential breeding sites could be located throughout the complete study area, at specific levels of confidence. The results showed the relevance of this method for landscape ecological research and nature conservation planning.
30244689|Evaluating habitat suitability is often complex, as habitat effects may be scale-dependent, critical resources may be spatially segregated, and resource availability may also depend on intra- and inter-specific interactions. Using analyses that spanned multiple years and spatial scales, we investigated habitat requirements of a territorial generalist, the common raven Corvus corax, in a relatively pristine woodland, Biaowiea Forest (E Poland). We compiled data from multiple raven surveys conducted between 1985 and 2001. Ravens were regularly distributed over the entire study area but declined in density over 50% within the 16 yr interval. In the same period game and forest management significantly reduced ungulate densities and likely diminished the habitat quality with regard to food supply, especially carrion. To better understand habitat requirements of ravens we studied breeding performance in relation to three different habitat types across multiple scales: open areas, coniferous-dominated forest, and deciduous-dominated forest. We found a prominent dissimilarity between raven nesting and foraging habitats highlighting the importance of resource complementation for ravens. On a fine scale, large old pines were exclusively selected as nesting trees and nesting areas were generally coniferous-dominated. However, at increasingly broader scales, coniferous habitats were negatively associated with raven reproductive success as those habitats likely provide a lower food supply. Only where the coniferous nesting areas at smaller scales were complemented with high percentages of deciduous forests and open areas at broader scales did the breeding performance increase. In addition to habitat composition, intra-specific interactions were important determinants of reproductive performance and very successful neighbors decreased reproductive performance of a focal pair. Most of previous studies have investigated resource complementation in terms of habitat edges or proximity of complementing resource patches. Our study demonstrates that the concept of landscape complementation also applies to gradients in landscape composition and emphasizes the importance of scales and intraspecific interactions in habitat analyses.
30244573|This study assessed the diversity patterns of a large family of beetles, Cerambycidae, in Europe and tested the following hypotheses: 1) richness gradients of this hyperdiverse taxon are driven by water and energy variables; 2) endemism is explained by the same factors, but variation between areas also reflects post-glacial re-colonization processes; and 3) faunal composition is determined by the same climatic variables and, therefore, beta diversity (species turnover) is related to richness gradients. Species richness, endemism and beta diversity were modelled using inventories of 37 European territories, built from a database containing the distributions of 609 species. Area, spatial position, and nine topographical and climatic variables were used as predictors in regression and constrained analysis of principal coordinates modelling. Species richness was mostly explained by a temperature gradient, which produced a south-to-north decreasing richness gradient. Endemism followed the same pattern, but was also determined by longitudinal variation, peaking in the southwestern and southeastern corners of the continent. Faunal turnover was explained by an important purely spatial pattern and a spatially structured environmental gradient. Thus, contrary to other groups, cerambycid richness was mostly explained by environmental energy, but not by water availability. Endemism was concentrated in the Iberian and Greek peninsulas, but not in Italy. Thus, the latter area may have been the major source of post-glacial re-colonization for European longhorn beetles or, otherwise, a poor refuge during glaciations. Turnover patterns were independent of the richness gradient, because northern faunas are nested in southern ones. Turnover, in contrast to richness, was driven by both the independent effects of climate and geographic constraints that might reflect dispersal limitation or stochastic colonization events, suggesting that richness gradients are more environmentally deterministic phenomena than turnover patterns.
3683000|We addressed how species number and pair density in guilds of co-existing species is related to habitat structure, and to the abundance and diversity of food resources, using the assemblage of seven species of dabbling ducks (genus Anas) breeding in 60 lakes distributed over six regions in temperate north Europe. Partial correlation and multiple regression revealed that species richness was best predicted by habitat structural diversity as indexed by a principal component analysis based on 18 vegetation and lake characteristics, and by the abundance of aquatic and emergent prey. We found no effect of lake size or prey size diversity on species richness. Pair density was correlated with the percentage of shoreline with horsetails (Equisetum), by habitat structural diversity and by the abundance of emergent invertebrate prey. Neither prey size diversity nor abundance of aquatic prey correlated with pair density. Species richness and pair density in North European duck guilds vary both with habitat structure and prey availability.
3683524|Variations in laying date and clutch size of pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca across populations throughout western Europe are examined in relation to climatic fluctuations, measured by the winter North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index. Across breeding sites, the winter-NAO index affected laying date such that females lay earlier after warmer and moister winters (positive values of winter NAO-index). Female pied flycatchers breed progressively earlier because presumably the whole breeding season is being shifted, as a direct result of the positive values of winter NAO-index. Moreover, clutch size of pied flycatchers across populations was negatively related to winter NAO-index during the last 50 yr. These analyses controlled for potentially confounding variables such as latitude, longitude, elevation and habitat of each study site. The present study conclude that pied flycatchers across western Europe are breeding earlier and laying smaller clutch sizes and that the most likely cause is a long-term increase in spring temperature. On the other hand, this study shows that climate change may not act uniformly between breeding populations in Western Europe. From those results, this study concludes that northern pied flycatcher populations are more sensitive to climate change than southern populations breeding in montane habitats.
30243248|Long-distance dispersal is a crucial factor in the life-cycle of plants, especially in our modern, highly fragmented landscapes. Because natural herds of large animals have disappeared and grazing practices have been abandoned, important potential vectors for seed dispersal over large distances may have been lost. In the context of the re-establishment of grazing management for nature conservation purposes, it is therefore important to gain insight in the ability of grazing animals to act as seed dispersal vectors. Whereas local dispersal mainly occurs through standard vectors typically described based on morphological adaptations of the diaspore, large herbivores act as non-standard seed dispersers. Therefore, traditional dispersal classes are loosing scientific relevance and continuous predictors of dispersal potential have been proposed. Here, we explored whether dispersal related plant traits, including the "seed retention potential", could explain the distribution patterns of 180 plant species over 64 fragmented semi-natural calcareous grasslands in Belgium. The distribution of habitat specialist plant species was strongly determined by the degree of isolation of the grasslands. Interestingly, species distribution patterns were clearly linked with a species' potential to migrate through large grazers, as quantified by its retention potential: species producing seeds with high retention capacity were less affected by habitat isolation. Categorical dispersal classes based on seed morphology did not explain a species' response to fragment isolation. Although seed retention potential outperformed simple seed dimensional traits, plant height, which is an indicator of epizoochorous attachment potential, was even more important. Therefore we suggest further extension of the epizoochorous retention potential model by incorporating basic ecological mechanisms that effectively contribute to successful dispersal events.
3683263|A number of mechanisms have been proposed to explain the widely observed positive interspecific relationship between local abundance and extent of geographic distribution in animals. Here, we use data on British birds to assess two of these hypotheses: that the relationship results from the relative position of a study area with respect to the geographic ranges of the species which occur there, and that the relationship results from a simple difference between taxonomic groups, rather than any general tendency for more abundant species to have larger range sizes. We find support for neither hypothesis. Phylogenetically controlled comparative analyses reveal that the positive abundance-range size relationship is consistently found within taxa, even when abundance and range size are calculated at a variety of spatial and temporal scales. Analyses both across species and within taxa show that bird species for which Britain is near to the centre of their distribution in Europe tend to have larger British range sizes and higher abundances than do species where Britain is close to the edge of their range in Europe. However, these relationships do not cause that between abundance and range size, because this latter relationship persists within different range position categories. Whether a species is near the centre or edge of its geographic range in Britain may affect its position on the abundance-range size relationship, but does not produce the relationship. Range position in Britain does, however, seem to be related to the magnitude of temporal changes in the range sizes of British birds. There is some evidence to suggest that species for which Britain is nearer to their European range centre have shown smaller changes in distribution over the period 1970-1990 than have species for which Britain is close to their European range edge.
3683345|The distribution and abundance of barnacle geese, Branta leucopsis, staging in northern Iceland was determined in May 1987 and 1994. A similar proportion of the total population (70%) was located in the two years. The distribution differed between the two years, with a higher proportion of the geese found in more westerly sites in 1994. Over 80% of records of birds feeding were on improved agricultural pasture though this made up only 47% of the available feeding habitat. Some geese fed on riverine and coastal grasslands but this was in a much smaller proportion than the availability of these habitats. The number of geese using a site was positively correlated with the area of improved pasture. Birds fed intensively through the day, suggesting that the area is important for the accumulation of nutrient stores. No differences in habitat use or feeding behaviour were found between 1987 and 1994.
3683578|We studied influence of the Argentine ant's Linepithema humile occurrence on seed dispersal of Rhamnus alaternus (Rhamnaceae). Rhamnus alaternus is a fleshy fruit plant dispersed primarily by birds; the seeds have an elaiosome attractive to ants. The observations were made in two study plots of Mediterranean cork-oak forests (one invaded and the other not invaded by L. humile) over two years. For R. alaternus, presence of L. humile was associated with of the following: reduction of seed transport to ant nests (80.2% of seed offered were removed in non-invaded vs 7.1% in invaded area), a shorter seed dispersal distance (mean = 90.2 cm in non-invaded vs 1.1 cm in invaded area), increase in seed retention time on the soil surface (median time in non-invaded was 50 vs 209.2 min in invaded area) and increased vulnerability to predation. In addition there was lower probability of seedling emergence, due to little elaiosome removal from the seeds (82.0% of emergence for seeds without elaiosome and 57.3% for seeds with elaiosome). These results, similar to findings obtained in South African fynbos, confirm that the Argentine ant invasion can strongly affect ecosystem processes in the Mediterranean biome.
30244583|Extinctions occur either randomly or in a more deterministic and predictable manner, with certain characteristics making some species more vulnerable to (local) extinction than others. Although the quantification of extinction randomness would better our understanding of the extinction causes and increase the predictability of future species losses, few quantification methods are currently available. To this purpose, we propose two indices based on a comparison of an a priori (expected) extinction series with an observed one. Whereas the first index requires data on the order of extinctions, the second index is only concerned with which species went extinct and which did not. Using a model for generating extinction data, we tested both indices successfully for accordance with the robustness prerequisites. Index outputs were furthermore unaffected by species richness, apart from decreased variation with rising species numbers. Because of its independence of non-extinct species and its focus on extinction sequences, the first randomness index seems especially useful for use in paleontological and paleo-ecological research. The second index is likely a good tool to study shorter term extinctions, for which the extinction order is often not known and for which the comparison with species that did persist is of greater interest. We use a real dataset to illustrate this. Finally, we discuss how it is possible to expand the use of this index toward identifying previously unknown extinction-promoting species characteristics, and toward a credible assessment of the extinction risk posed by global change.
3683262|Home range characteristics and spatial organization of the root vole Microtus oeconomus were assessed by radio-tracking. The aim of this paper is to test the assumption that each microtine species employs a certain modal spatial system around which there is considerable flexibility. In the studied population the basic modes of spatial organization were female territoriality and male use of overlapping home ranges. Female territories were significantly smaller and less diversified in size than male ranges. The size of male home ranges was positively correlated with body mass. Each female territory was overlapped by several male ranges; larger male ranges usually overlapped more female territories. The above spatial organization suggests that the prevailing mating system in the root vole is promiscuity, and larger males have an access to more receptive females than have small-sized males. Departures from these basic modes were found among young mature females from summer cohort, forming clusters even at low density; and occasionally among females in locally crowded habitat patches, where they held overlapping home ranges. A single male usually monopolized such a cluster, excluding other males from the area used by the females.
20696291|The goal of landscape genetics is to detect and explain landscape effects on genetic diversity and structure. Despite the increasing popularity of landscape genetic approaches, the statistical methods for linking genetic and landscape data remain largely untested. This lack of method evaluation makes it difficult to compare studies utilizing different statistics, and compromises the future development and application of the field. To investigate the suitability and comparability of various statistical approaches used in landscape genetics, we simulated data sets corresponding to five landscape-genetic scenarios. We then analyzed these data with eleven methods, and compared the methods based on their statistical power, type-1 error rates, and their overall ability to lead researchers to accurate conclusions about landscape-genetic relationships. Results suggest that some of the most commonly applied techniques (e.g. Mantel and partial Mantel tests) have high type-1 error rates, and that multivariate, non-linear methods are better suited for landscape genetic data analysis. Furthermore, different methods generally show only moderate levels of agreement. Thus, analyzing a data set with only one method could yield method-dependent results, potentially leading to erroneous conclusions. Based on these findings, we give recommendations for choosing optimal combinations of statistical methods, and identify future research needs for landscape genetic data analyses.
3683327| The spatial pattern and occurrence of a threatened bryophyte, Neckera pennata, were studied in relation to the abundance and pattern of suitable substrate trees at two spatial scales: 1) in a 4  4 km fraction of fragmented, mostly managed southern boreal forest landscape, and 2) in an old-growth forest stand within this landscape, with abundant occurrence of suitable habitats. To explore in detail the spatial clustering of N. pennata at the forest stand scale, we applied a second order point process analysis based on the Ripley's K-function for binary point patterns. Neckera pennata proved to be a rare species in the studied landscape: it was found only on 31 Populus tremula trees. At the landscape scale, the distribution of the species was highly aggregated: the species occurred only within a 60 ha old-growth forest patch in the whole area. At the forest stand scale, N. pennata proved to be a widespread, randomly distributed species without any tendency towards aggregation. It was found on 19 Populus trees, which was only 1.5% of the total 1253 potential substrate trees within the inventory area. The species showed a statistically significant preference towards large trees. The future of the species in the study area is unclear due to 1) the very low population density and 2) the lack of regeneration of Populus within the protected old-growth forest area hosting the remaining population. 
30244558|It is commonly assumed that variation in abiotic site conditions influences the number of niches, which in turn affects the potential species richness in an area. Based on theoretical considerations, abiotic variation is often used as an estimator of species richness at broad scales, while at finer landscape scales the diversity of habitat types is used. However, habitat estimators assume the landscape to be composed of discrete, homogeneous patches with sharp boundaries, and such a concept is hard to apply in gradient-dominated landscapes. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the influence of topographic variability (TV) on species richness at the landscape level (gamma () diversity) and on its components (alpha () and beta () diversity) at microsite and habitat group levels. Using floristic data from 12 "landscapes" of 1 km we investigated the influence on diversity components of two simple and one complex measures of TV. While the standard deviation (SD) of altitude explained a high proportion of the variation in y diversity (linear regression model, R =0.63), the complex measure, SD of solar radiation explained it even better (R =0.82). There were strong effects of TV on  and  diversity components at the microsite level, but only marginal increases of the diversity components at the habitat level. Further analyses revealed that the missing increase of the habitat level components was caused by differences between habitat groups and that only grassland diversity components increased significantly with TV. We conclude that TV at a landscape scale has strong effects on niche or microsite diversity and is an appropriate estimator of relative species richness in landscapes that are topographically heterogeneous and gradient dominated.
3682916|Age, longevity, and growth in mink frogs Rana septentrionalis from two latitudes in Quebec, Canada, were assessed by skeletochronological and back-calculation methods in order to document proximate causes for intraspecific variations in adult body size. In both study sites, females grew faster and were on average 11% larger than males. Mean age and maximal longevity were significantly higher in females than in males only in the southern populations. There was thus an interpopulation difference in the relative contribution of age and growth to sexual size dimorphisms. Sex-ratio also favored females (males suffering higher mortality) only in the southern populations. Specimens from the northern population had higher mean ages (but not higher longevities) and were 17% larger than specimens from the southern populations. Annual growth rate appeared similar at the two study sites despite a shorter growing season at the northern locality. Maturity was reached by both sexes after 1 yr of post-metamorphic life (PML) in the southern populations but after 2 yr of PML in the northern population. There are indications that tadpoles metamorphose at larger body size at the northern locality after a prolonged larval period. It is concluded that growth rate, delayed maturity, greater mean ages, and eventually size at transformation, all contribute to the larger size of adult mink frogs at northern localities.
3683270|Several recent studies have compared small mammal community structure across multiple deserts on different continents. These studies have tacitly assumed that variation in community structure was greater between continents than within, and so have not evaluated variation across desert regions within continents. I evaluated several metrics of community structure and a model of community assembly for four desert regions in North America - the Great Basin, Mojave, Sonoran, and Chihuahuan Deserts - in order to explicitly compare these metrics across these deserts. Additionally, I compared these results with similar analyses conducted on two desert regions in central Asia - the Gobi Desert and the Turan Desert Region - to evaluate the relative magnitude of intra- vs inter-continental variation. Although the patterns observed are complex, they demonstrated marked heterogeneity in desert small mammal communities within North America. However, this heterogeneity is much less than that observed in inter-continental comparisons, in which Asian and North American deserts differ markedly. These results agree with other recent studies providing limited or no support for the existence of substantial convergence in community characteristics or ecological function across geographically distant regions. Rather, the results support the hypothesis that the common evolutionary history of faunas in globally disjunct landmasses has had a stronger influence on the evolution of communities and faunas than do regional variations in climate, physiography, etc. Whereas a common ecological setting may have large impacts on some facets of organismal structure (e.g., bipedalism in desert small mammals), common evolutionary history appears to have a more profound influence on local dynamics.
3683196|The habitat use of small mustelids in a tundra area in Norwegian Lapland was studied chiefly by means of snow-tracking 1986-89. Stoats showed strong preference to a habitat complex immediately beneath the thrust line of the Scandes, with exceptional abundance of luxuriant habitats, whereas weasel activity was more evenly spread over the lowland tundra. Mustelid activity on the high tundra above the thrust line was consistently low. Within each subarea, stoat activity was concentrated to the most luxuriant habitats. Similar preferences were shown by weasels on the lowland but not in the vicinity of the thurst cliff. Daily movements of both species varied from local (c. 200 m) to extensive (up to 4 km); no consistent interspecific differences in travel distances could be observed. The results largely conform to the hypothesis of patchy exploitation ecosystems (T. Oksanen 1990a), according to which predator activity tends to 'spill over' from luxuriant habitats, capable of supporting predator populations, to adjacent barren ones, due to despotic behavior within and between species and due to opportunistic predation by transient predators. However, predator activity in barren habitats during the crash winter could not be explained by these mechanisms alone. A third mechanism - breakdown of habitat preferences of predators during crash phases of a cyclic prey population - was thus introduced.
3682889|The availability of high quality data on the distribution and abundance of British birds at the national scale means that this fauna is the basis for a growing body of macroecological study. Nevertheless, questions remain about how representative of wider patterns the distributions and abundances of birds in Britain may be. Here, we use data on the British, European and global breeding distributions of British birds to show that species that are widespread in Britain also tend to be widespread across larger regions. These results hold for both residents and migrants separately, and when controlling for the phylogenetic relatedness of species. Species with wide latitudinal spans in Europe also tend to have large British ranges, with the largest British ranges exhibited by species inhabiting mid-latitudes in Europe. These results demonstrate that the distributions of birds within Britain are not simply idiosyncratic, but do reflect aspects of their broader distributions.
3683443|Carabid beetle assemblages were studied to assess how diversity and community structure varied along a gradient of land-use. This gradient was composed of six 1 km<sup>2</sup> quadrats with an increasing proportion of agricultural land reflecting the anthropogenic fragmentation and intensification of landscapes. Carabid species richness and abundance was predicted to peak in the most heterogeneous landscape, in accord with the intermediate disturbance hypothesis (IDH), and then decline as agricultural intensification increased. It was also predicted that the different landscapes would support beetle communities distinct from each other. The IDH was unsupported-in both years of this study carabid species richness and abundance was greatest in the most intensively managed, agricultural sites. Detrended correspondence analysis revealed a clear separation in beetle community structure between forested and open habitats and between different forest types. Canonical correspondence analysis revealed a significant correlation between beetle community structure and the environment, showing distinct beetle assemblages to be significantly associated with specific edaphic and botanical features of the land-use gradient. This study adds to increasing evidence that landscape-scale patterns in land-use significantly affect beetle community structure producing distinct assemblages.
3683434|Predation causes most nest failure in birds. Predator communities are likely to vary across a gradient of increasing urbanization, so nest predation also is likely to vary across this gradient. Although predation is thought to decline with increasing urbanization, relatively little is known about variation in predation pressure within strata along an urban gradient and how factors known to affect nest success, such as nest location, interact with urban variables, such as human housing density. Native habitats are frequently fragmented and isolated by suburban residential development, thus we quantified predation rates on artificial nests located in natural oak scrub patches within a suburban matrix in south-central Florida. We examined patterns of predation based on nest location relative to habitat edges, artificial nest weathering treatment, nest shrub height, and human housing density. Over two 18-d trials, we placed a total of 240 nests, each containing a single quail egg and a clay sham, along three roadside transects. Nest predation was not influenced by proximity to edge, nest weathering, or trial date, but was highest at high housing density and lowest at low housing density. The proportion of quail eggs removed from nests increased with human housing density. Birds were the most frequent predators of artificial nests, but the relative frequency of predation by birds or mammals did not differ relative to any of our treatments. Higher rates of nest predation with increasing human housing density within suburban habitats may reflect changes in habitat structure and composition that increase the vulnerability of nests to predation or changes in the composition of the predator community. Our results modify the conclusions of previous studies by suggesting that at scales smaller than the entire urban gradient, nest predation may increase with human housing density, one common measure of urbanization.
3683119|Based on radio telemetry, habitat distribution of 32 individual capercaillie Tetrao urogallus was compared with habitat availability at various levels of scale. At forest stand level, capercaillie preferred large patches of late succession stages, and selected for moderate canopy closure and high abundance of feeding trees. Hens and cocks selected home ranges with high proportions of old forest, and range size was related to old forest fragmentation. Winter survival was high independently of habitat selection. In cocks, habitat use was affected by social spacing; home range size and use of old forest were age-dependent, and habitat composition of winter ranges indirectly related to survival and mating success in spring. Topography influenced habitat selection, as the birds preferred gentle slopes. At the landscape scale, the distribution of bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus was the key to capercaillie habitat use, indicating that habitat requirements in autumn and spring influenced selection of winter ranges. The study confirms that capercaillie in central Europe select habitats according to structural features typical of the boreal forests of the species' main distribution range. However, spatio-temporal variation in resource abundance at the landscape scale sets significant limits to suitability of alpine capercaillie habitats.
3683784|Despite the robust observation in macroecology that there are many small-bodied species, recent comparative studies have found little evidence for elevated net rates of diversification among small-bodied species within taxa. Here we examine the relationship between body size and species richness using the New Zealand land bird fauna, a well resolved palaeoecological Holocene assemblage. We test whether there is any evidence that net cladogenesis depended on body size in an assemblage prior to the impact of human-induced extinction. We also test whether net cladogenesis depends on the level at which taxa are endemic to New Zealand, to see whether there is evidence for bursts of cladogenesis following taxon establishment, and examine how the body sizes of New Zealand land birds relate to those in Australia, the most likely source pool for colonising taxa. Most New Zealand land bird species are small-bodied. We find no evidence, however, that this is due to higher net cladogenesis in small-bodied taxa. The body mass distributions of endemic and recent colonist species do not differ statistically, but recent colonists tend to be smaller-bodied than their closest endemic relative. This tendency is more marked for small-bodied than large-bodied taxa. More endemic taxa do not tend to be more species rich in New Zealand, although there is a positive relationship between level of endemism and species richness for forest taxa. The body mass distribution of New Zealand birds is very similar to that for Australia. Body mass does not dictate the likelihood that a family has colonised New Zealand from Australia, but the number of species in the family does: it is the species rich Australian families that have successfully colonised. We discuss the implications of these results for the evolution of body size distributions, and for the "island rule" of body size evolution on islands.
3683835|We tested the hypothesis that large herbivores manipulate their own food supply by modifying soil nutrient availability. This was investigated experimentally by determining the impact of faeces on grasses, mosses and soil biological properties in tundra ecosystems. For this, we increased the density of reindeer Rangifer tarandus platyrhynchus faeces and studied the response of a tundra system on Spitsbergen to this single faecal addition treatment for four subsequent years. From the third year onwards faecal addition had unambiguously enhanced the standing crop of grasses, as evidenced by an increase in both shoot density and mass per shoot. Although reindeer grazing across experimental plots was positively related to the abundance of grasses in anyone year, the increase in grass abundance in fouled plots failed to result in greater grazing pressure in those plots. Faecal addition enhanced soil microbial biomass C and N, particularly under wet conditions where faecal decay rates were greatest, whilst grasses appeared to benefit from faeces under dry conditions. Whilst growth of grasses and soil microbial biomass were stimulated by faecal addition, the depth of the extensive moss layer that is typical of tundra ecosystems was significantly reduced in fouled plots four years after faecal addition. The greatest reduction in moss depth occurred where fouling increased soil microbial biomass most, suggesting that enhanced decomposition of moss by a more abundant microbial community may have caused the reduced moss layer depth in fouled plots. Our field experiment demonstrates that by the production of faeces alone, vertebrate herbivores greatly impact on both above- and belowground components of tundra ecosystems and in doing so manipulate their own food supply. Our findings verify the assertion that grazing is of fundamental importance to tundra ecosystem productivity, and support the hypothesis that herbivory is instrumental in promoting grasses whilst suppressing mosses. The widely observed inverse relationship between grass and moss abundance in the field may therefore reflect the long history of plant-herbivore interactions in tundra ecosystems.
30244572|Spiders are an abundant and diverse group of generalist predators in arable fields. Knowledge on what landscape and site factors affect this group can be valuable for efforts to reduce biodiversity loss in agricultural landscapes and can have implications for natural pest control. We investigated the impact of landscape and site factors on epigeic spiders in 29 winter oilseed rape fields (Brassica napus, OSR) embedded in differently structured landscapes in an agricultural region east of Vienna (Austria). Landscape factors included proportions of non-crop areas, woody areas and fallows, lengths of road-side strips and hedges, and landscape diversity at different spatial scales (r = 250-2000 m). Site factors included OSR stand density, soil index, soil cultivation intensity, nitrogen fertilisation level, OSR vegetation cover in late autumn, and insecticide applications. Data were analysed using regression, ordination, and variation partitioning. Different characteristics of spider assemblages responded to different landscape factors at different spatial scales. Observed species richness showed the strongest positive reponse to proportions of woody areas at rather small scale (radius 500 m), but the relation remained significant up to the 1250 m radius. Standardised species richness was positively related to non-crop area at the smallest scale (radius 250 m). Activity density was positively related to length of road-side strips with maximum effects at large scale (radius 1750 m) and non-crop area (radius 750 m). Site characteristics (stand density, insecticide applications, and late autumn ground cover) and landscape factors (woody areas and fallows at radius 500 m) were similarly important for explaining species composition. We interpret the scale-dependency of relations as the result of differences in dispersal power of the studied spider species. These results demonstrate the important, scale dependent influence of natural and semi-natural habitats on spider assemblages in arable fields.
3683499|The allozyme haplotype was determined for 157 ramets of the unisexual, perennial, clonal moss Hylocomium splendens within five 10  10 cm plots, which had been the subject of demographic studies over a 5-yr period. In addition, 25 shoots were analyzed from outside the plots and from four neighbouring patches. Only four haplotypes were encountered within the plots; one female type occurred in all plots and one male type in four plots, whereas two male haplotypes occurred in only one plot. Genets grew intermingled in all but one plot. The sex ratio within the five plots was female-biased at the ramet level (male:female = 1:2.6), but male-biased at the genet level (3:1). Sporophytes were produced abundantly during the study period, but no signs of recruitment from spores were observed in the plots. Nine additional genets were encountered in neighbouring patches but from only one patch each. Four (44%) of these could potentially have been derived from spores generated within the plots. Our results suggest that each patch of H. splendens is colonized by a small number of genets, whereas different patches have different sets of genets, i.e. clonal diversity is determined by vegetative reproduction at within-patch scales and structured by sexual processes at among-patch scales.
30244685|There is a general consensus that functional traits are reliable indicators of adaptation of organisms to particular environmental characteristics. In this study we relate the combined distributions of species traits of plants and animals to disturbance regimes in chestnut forests of southern Switzerland affected by regular winter fires. We used co-inertia analysis for combining the trait response of 471 invertebrate species (117 001 individuals) and 81 plant species at 23 sites with different fire and cutting histories. Trait response was assessed by calculating the variation in weighted mean traits averaged over the communities and by using mean traits in multivariate analyses. The analysis showed a strong association between plant and animal traits under fire constraints (Monte-Carlo test, p = 0.0045). Plants and animal distributions show parallel trends in responses to fire which selects traits relating to persistence (ability to survive), resilience (ability to recover) and mobility. Warmth-demanding insects, herbivores, flying carnivores and pollinators were associated with recent fires, as were annual, ruderal and light-demanding plant species with long flowering duration. Small arthropods feeding on dead wood and those with narrow habitat requirements were associated with low fire frequency and unburnt sites, as were competitive plants with large seeds favoring moist sites. The spatial association between plant and animal traits reflected adaptations that promote survival in the disturbance regime, while the disturbance acts as an environmental filter on the distribution and assemblage of the trait values within communities. This combined analysis of plant and invertebrate traits distributions illustrates how community and ecosystem responses can be monitored and the results generalized across localities and disturbance types. Analyses of traits that cross trophic levels provide powerful and promising tools for validating management procedures and controlling ecosystem functions.
30243197|Food availability is likely to influence body condition and, in turn, fitness. The intensity of this response may vary between populations of the same species on a small spatial and temporal scale. We used 5 yr of data from 6 Eurasian red squirrel Sciurus vulgaris populations from the southern Alps to explore differences in body size and body mass among neighbouring populations, in relation to habitat type and variation in food supply. We also investigated sexual dimorphism in these traits and whether phenotypic variation affects local survival and female reproductive success. Mean hind foot length, a measure of body size, did not differ between sexes but differed between areas. Seasonal variation in body mass was small with no evidence for fattening in autumn. Females were slightly heavier than males, but this difference was largely explained by mass gain of females during reproduction. The size of conifer seed crops, the major food supply, varied strongly over years and between habitats, but this variation corresponded only weakly with autumn body mass. Differences in size and mass between populations were partially explained by habitat-related differences in body size and variability of seed-crops, suggesting differential selection for smaller squirrels in spruce-larch forests against selection for larger and heavier animals in mixed broadleaves and conifer forests and in Scots pine forests with more stable seed production. The probability of reproduction by females increased with body mass, but varied strongly between habitats and years, with more females reproducing in years with rich seed-crops. In both sexes, body mass positively affected probability of settlement and length of residency. Our results suggest that in temporally variable environments that differ in overall amount of food resources, individual variation in body mass is related to habitat type, and that having a relatively high body mass, within each population, positively affects male and female settlement success and local survival, and female reproductive success.
3683629|The occurrence and habitat associations of the majority of invertebrate groups in boreal forests are poorly known, even though these groups represent perhaps over 99% of the animal species diversity in the forests. We studied the beetle (Coleoptera) fauna of four forest site types in northern Finland: in spruce mires, herb rich, mesic and sub-xeric forests. We sampled beetles in 32 study sites with five window and five pitfall traps in each. We describe the species abundance and diversity patterns within and among forest types and relate these patterns to structural components of the forests. The volume of decaying wood varied from 14 to
3683764|In this study of thick-billed murres in high-arctic Greenland we used electronic data loggers and satellite transmitters (PTTs) to identify the foraging areas of chick-rearing adults, and to map the routes and staging areas of adults accompanying post-fledging chicks during their swimming migration within the North Water (NOW) polynya. During the pre-fledging period the majority of 19 foraging trips performed by 8 birds went to a shelf area north of the colony where 83% of all dives took place. Individual birds headed in different directions during successive trips, and went up to 47 km from the colony. Upon fledging the four PTT-tagged adult/chick pairs initiated swimming migration by heading south-west from the colony. All pairs moved fast until they arrived at a shallow bank area ca 180 km from the colony, where at least two of the pairs remained for more than a week. Speed during the active migration averaged
3683308|The reproductive ecology of four sympatric Drosophila virilis group species (Diptera: Drosophilidae) was studied in the field to trace the factors maintaining species isolation. There was a high probability of meeting a heterospecific individual belonging to the same species group on the basis of adult spatial occurrence. Direct field observations revealed that the males court also females of the foreign species, but interspecific courtships do not lead to mating. The main mating period among these species lasted only several weeks, and the timing of mating periods differed markedly in the three most common species. Reproductive character displacement between species may explain the observed differences in the timing of the mating periods, but they could have arisen in the context of other selective pressures than the prevention of interspecific courtships and matings.
3683550|Semi-arid scrubland in the Middle East consists of a soil crust matrix overlain with patches of perennial shrubs. To understand factors influencing biodiversity in this vulnerable landscape we need to understand how this mosaic of habitats influences associated fauna. Spiders are particularly abundant in this habitat so we asked if spider diversity differed between habitat patches and if different patch types contained either a subset of the regional species pool or specific species guilds. We also asked whether changes in the fractal nature of the microphytic and macrophytic patch mosaic altered spider diversity in this habitat. We found that the semi-arid scrubland at Sayeret Shaked Park (Israel) contains different spider communities that require patches of a certain quality to develop fully. Different patch types contain communities of different species, but the community structure of the patches is similar. We suggest that large-scale environmental factors typical of the site as a whole influence coarse-grained community structure, while small-scale differences between patch types result in the specialisation of species to different patch types.
3683039|Only a small proportion of land can realistically be protected as nature reserves and thus conservation efforts also must focus on the ecological value of agroecosystems and developed areas surrounding nature reserves. In this study, avian communities were surveyed in 11 habitat types in central Panama, across a gradient from extensive forest to intensive agricultural land uses, to examine patterns of species richness and abundance and community composition. Wooded habitats, including extensive and fragmented forests, shade coffee plantations, and residential areas supported the most species and individuals. Nearctic-Neotropical migratory species were most numerous in lowland forest fragments, shade coffee, and residential areas. Introduced Pinus caribbea and sugar cane plantations supported the fewest species compared to all other habitats. Cattle pastures left fallow for less than two years supported more than twice as many total species as actively grazed pastures, such that species richness in fallow pastures was similar to that found in wooded habitats. Community similarities were relatively low among all habitat types (none exceeding the observed 65% similarity between extensive and fragmented lowland forests), but communities in shade coffee and residential areas were 43% and 54% similar to lowland forest fragments, respectively. Fallow pastures and residential areas shared 60% of their species. Bird communities in shade coffee and residential areas were characterized by higher proportions of frugivorous and nectarivorous species than in native forests. These same guilds also were better represented in fallow than in grazed pastures. Raptors and piscivorous species were most prevalent in cattle pastures and rice fields. These results, though based upon only species richness and abundance, demonstrate that many human-altered habitats have potential ecological value for birds, and conservation efforts in tropical areas should focus greater attention on enhancement of agricultural and developed lands as wildlife habitat. To understand the true conservation value of these modified lands will require examination not only of numbers but also of the types of species supported by these habitats, their reproductive output and survival rates.
30244601|Parasite communities can be structured at different spatial scales depending on the level of organization of the hosts; hence, examining this structure should be a multiscale process. We investigated ectoparasite community structure in three closely related seabird hosts, the Mediterranean Cory's shearwater Calonectris diomedea diomedea, the Atlantic Cory's shearwater C. d. borealis and the Cape Verde shearwater C. edwardsii. This community was composed of three lice (Halipeurus abnormis, Austromenopon echinatum and Saemundssonia peusi) and one flea species (Xenopsylla gratiosa), and was considered at the infra-, component and regional community levels. We examined temporal and spatial structuring of the infracommunities, the influence of host aggregation and body condition on the component community, and the effect of genetic and geographic connectivity among host populations on the regional community. Ectoparasite infracommunities showed substantial species overlaps in temporal patterns of abundance, but species were spatially segregated within the host body. Within component communities, all ectoparasite species showed an aggregated distribution in abundance. However, aggregation patterns and their relationships with the spatial distribution of hosts within the breeding colony differed among ectoparasite species, mainly reflecting ecological differences between fleas and lice. At the regional scale, similarity in ectoparasite communities correlated with geographic distances among host colonies, but not with genetic distances. This result suggests differences in climate and habitat characteristics among host localities as a major determinant of regional communities, rather than host connectivity. Taken together, our results highlight the importance of the geographic distribution of host breeding colonies and the spatial segregation within the host body as key factors in determining ectoparasite community structure in Calonectris shearwaters.
3683472|Since prehistoric times, natural and man made fires have been important factors of natural disturbance in many forest ecosystems, like those on the southern slopes of the Alps. Their effect on scarce, endangered or stenotopic species and on the diversity of invertebrate species assemblages which depend on a mosaic of successional habitat stages, is controversially discussed. In southern Switzerland, in a region affected by regular winter fires, we investigated the effect of the fire frequency on a large spectrum of taxonomic groups. We focussed on total biodiversity, taxonomic groups specific to certain habitat types, and on scarce and endangered species. Overall species richness was significantly higher in plots with repeated fires than in the unburnt control sites. Plots with only one fire in the last 30 yr harboured intermediate species numbers. Fire frequency had a significantly positive effect on species richness of forest edge specialists. Species of open landscape, open forests and interior forests were not influenced by fire frequency. A positive effect of fire on species richness was observed for ground beetles (Carabidae), hoverflies (Syrphidae), bees and wasps (Hymenoptera aculeata, without Formicidae), and spiders (Araneae). True bugs (Heteroptera), lacewings (Neuroptera) and the saproxylic beetle families Cerambycidae, Buprestidae and Lucanidae showed positive trends, but no statistically significant effects of fire on species numbers or/and abundances. Negative effects of fire on species numbers or/and abundances were found only for isopods and weevils (Curculionidae). A compromise for forest management is suggested, which considers the risk of damage by fire to people and goods, while avoiding the risk of damage to biodiversity by imitating the effects of sporadic fires and providing a mosaic forest with open gaps of different successional stages.
3683595|Insects are particularly sensitive to environmental conditions and can serve as responsive indicators of changing climatic patterns and habitat conditions. However, changes in patterns of abundance over environmental gradients in forest ecosystems are poorly known. To examine landscape patterns of invertebrate assemblages, arboreal arthropods were collected during two seasons (spring and summer) by bagging branches from the lower, middle and upper canopy levels from six stands in nine second-growth (100-150 yr old) forests and old-growth (500 yr old) forests in Washington and Oregon. Detrended correspondence analysis and multi-response permutation procedure showed that the composition of the canopy assemblages varied significantly with latitude, precipitation and tree age. Indicator analysis was used to assess each taxon's importance in response to the environmental variables. Individual taxa showed associations with latitudinal and precipitation gradients, and between old-growth and mature Douglas-fir. These effects may be used to anticipate the impacts of climate change or land use scenarios on the spatial patterns of forest invertebrate assemblages.
30244554|Many species of birds show evidence of secondary contact zones and subspeciation in their Scandinavian distribution range, presumably resulting from different post-glacial recolonization routes. We investigated whether this is the case also in the Scandinavian bluethroat Luscinia svecica, a species that has been suggested to consist of two separate populations: one SW-migrating and long-winged (L. s. gaetkei) breeding in southern Norway, and one shorter-winged ESE-migrating (L. s. svecica) in northern Scandinavia. We sampled males at eleven breeding sites from southern Norway to northernmost Sweden. There were no morphological differences or latitudinal trends within the sample, neither were there any genetic differences or latitudinal trends as measured by variation in AFLP and microsatellite markers. Stable isotope ratios of throat feathers moulted on the wintering grounds showed no, or possibly marginal differences between birds from southern Norway and northern Sweden. We also re-measured old museum skins that in previous studies were classified as L. s. gaetkei, and found marginally longer wings in birds from the southern part of the Scandinavian breeding range. The difference, however, was much smaller than proposed in earlier studies. We conclude that there is no evidence of a genetic population structure among Scandinavian bluethroats that would suggest the presence of a zone of secondary contact. Finally we discuss whether the presumed subspecies gaetkei ever existed.
3683374|The influence of environmental stochasticity and dispersal in producing patterns in population synchrony was examined for 53 woods censused annually from 1990 to 1999 for nine resident bird species (wren Troglodytes troglodytes, dunnock Prunella modularis, robin Erithacus rubecula, blackbird Turdus merula, song thrush Turdus philomelos, long-tailed tit Aegithalos caudatus, blue tit Parus caeruleus, great tit Parus major, and chaffinch Fringilla coelebs) and four migrant bird species (garden warbler Sylvia borin, blackcap Sylvia atricapilla, chiffchaff Phylloscopus collybita and willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus). Twelve species showed global synchrony of population counts due to regional population trends and widespread annual population fluctuations. There was a clear link between population fluctuations and winter weather for wren, and three other species showed their largest population declines after the coldest winters. Eight species showed a decline in synchrony with distance between woods, and there was evidence for dispersal causing this pattern in three species. Landscape structure affected patterns of synchrony in several species, with lower synchrony in landscapes with less woodland. For three species, this difference in synchrony across a landscape gradient of decreasing woodland cover accounted for the decline in synchrony over distance. Three species showed greater synchrony between woods with similar amounts of hedgerow in the surrounding landscape, suggesting that the surroundings of a wood influence the population dynamics of some species breeding in the wood. Habitat fragmentation can alter the processes contributing to population synchrony. Loss of woodland reduces the relative abundance of woodland bird species. The remaining patches of habitat are smaller, more isolated and are set in a more hostile landscape, all of which may disrupt dispersal between patches and alter the population dynamics within woods.
3682847|Effects of isolation, habitat size and several microhabitat variables on presence/absence of the monophagous Bolitophagus reticulatus (L.) (Coleoptera, Tenebrionidae) were investigated in 58 forest fragments in an agricultural landscape (
30243164|We examined a suite of macro-habitat and landscape variables around active and inactive Allegheny woodrat Neotoma magister colony sites in the Appalachian Mountains of the mid-Atlantic Highlands of Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia using an information-theoretic modeling approach. Logistic regression analyses suggested that Allegheny woodrat presence was related positively to distance to the nearest occupied colony site and was influenced by location within physiographic subprovince. Colony sites were more likely to be active to the west (Allegheny Plateau) than the east (Blue Ridge/Piedmont), and colony sites were less likely to be active north of the Potomac River where land use and human disturbance patterns in the region were more intensive. Support also was generated for a presence-absence model that included forest cover within a 1-km radius of colony sites, although its importance was equivocal in this heavily forested region. Allegheny woodrats rely on emergent rock habitats for denning, and mast-bearing forest communities for foraging, and appear to display a metapopulation structure that is sensitive to a combination of natural and anthropogenically-induced isolation pressures that are recognizable but difficult to manage or mitigate.
3683356| We conducted a field experiment at a 4-ha sports ground in Oxford between May and August 1992 to analyse the role of learning and social organization in the short-term responses of hedgehogs Erinaceus europaeus to manipulations of food availability. On six nights we uniformly distributed 36 'prey' (cat food chunks) twice a night in an 70  70 m area (the 'patch'). Prey were placed at sites marked with small flags. In a subsequent experiment lasting five nights, non-marked and randomly distributed prey were provided. We regularly mapped the position of individuals, before, during and after both food supplementation treatments. Hedgehogs showed a stable pattern of spatial utilisation of the habitat during the non-hibernation months prior to experimental perturbation. Addition of food to parts of the habitat significantly and rapidly changed these patterns. a) Hedgehog density increased in food supplemented parts of the habitat. b) Hedgehogs learned to associate visual cues with the presence of food. c) Hedgehogs learned the spatial location of patches. d) Hedgehogs probably engaged in 'area restricted' searching. Hedgehogs had overlapping home ranges but showed a uniform distribution within patches and avoided conspecifics at distance < 30 m. The number of different individuals visiting the area decreased throughout the experiment. Food addition did not significantly change the mean density of hedgehogs, perhaps because social interactions placed an upper limit on density in the areas with supplementary food. 
3683576|In recent years, studies of bird-habitat relationships undertaken in the context of habitat fragmentation have led to the widespread use of species categorisation according to their response to edge alongside mature forest patches (edge species, interior species, interior-edge generalist species). In other research contexts, especially in less fragmented landscapes dominated by a forested land base in various age classes, bird-habitat relationships are often described in relation to their use of various successional stages (early-successional species, mature forest species, generalist species). A simple comparison of these two commonly-used classifications schemes in a close geographical range for 60 species in eastern North America as well as for 36 species in north-western Europe clearly reveals that in these two particular biomes the two classifications are not independent. We believe that this association is not only a semantic issue and has important ecological consequences. For example, almost all edge species are associated with early-successional habitats when a wide range of forest age-classes are found in a given area. Accordingly, we suggest that most species considered to prefer edge habitats in agricultural landscapes are in fact only early-successional species that could not find shrubland conditions apart from the exposed edges of mature forest fragments. To be considered a true edge species, a given species should require the simultaneous availability of more than one habitat type and consequently should be classified as a habitat generalist in its use of successional stages. However, 28 out of 30 recognised edge species were considered habitat specialists in terms of successional status. Based on these results, we conclude that "real edge species" are probably quite rare and that we should make a difference between true edge species and species which in some landscapes, happen to find their habitat requirements on edges.
3683645|Few studies are available that analyse variation in dispersal rates between populations. Here we present data on the degree of local recruitment (LR) of great and blue tits (Parus major, P. caeruleus) in a large number of nest-box plots in northern Belgium that vary in size, degree of isolation and population density. These plots have been studied for varying lengths of time over the past 40 yr. As expected, LR was higher among male than female birds, and this difference was most pronounced in blue tits. Regardless of species and sex, more local recruits were found in larger plots but also in plots with a higher population density. Thus, LR increased with population size (number of pairs) but levelled off in the largest populations at ca 50% for male birds. LR was higher in forest fragments compared to plots inside continuous forest, suggesting that fragmentation reduces exchange among local populations. However, LR was not related to the degree of isolation of individual fragments. We also found a weak but significant increase in LR with productivity (number of nestlings) of plots, but no relationship with other demographic variables.
3682990|The distribution, reproductive modality and karyology of populations of freshwater planarians were studied together with physico-chemical variables in 149 springs in the central Pyrenees. Diversity was limited to four species (Dugesia(Dugesia)subtentaculata, Polycelis felina, Crenobia alpina and Phagocata vitta), already known from streams and lakes. Planarians were found rarely (only a third of springs contain them), in low-moderate abundance, and any single spring did not harbour more than one species. The distribution of potential predators and preys among the springs sampled was fairly uniform. So, we assume that whereas predation is unlikely to influence triclad distribution, the oligotrophic character of these habitats may explain, through food shortage and ensuing interspecific competition, the presence of a single species in each spring. Besides interspecific competition, the distribution of each species can also be influenced by particular abiotic parameters. Temperature and current velocity appeared to be the dominant factors, the first separating C. alpina from the rest of species, and the second favouring the presence of P. felina in a large set of springs. These factors also seem to determine planarian distribution in streams and rivers. Other environmental factors such as calcium bicarbonated water (for D. subtentaculata) and preference for karst systems (for Phagocata vitta) are of importance. Some peculiarities of distribution, like the scarcity of C. alpina in reophile habitats and the thermal tolerance of Phagocata vitta, may be due both to competition from P. felina and to historical factors in the former and to morphological (presence of pigment) and ecological (epigean habits) features in the latter, respectively. Karyological analyses demonstrated triploidy in all populations of D. subtentaculata, a polyploid origin for C. alpina and the finding in Phagocata vitta of a new polyploid series leading to the highest chromosome number in turbellarians (14n = 238). Furthermore, the basic chromosome number of C. alpina (n = 21) and Phagocata vitta (n = 17) differs from those found in northern European populations (n = 7 in both, respectively). This suggests that under the specific names C. alpina and Phagocata vitta more than one species actually occurs, this being a problem for further studies. Whereas polyploidy has often been related to living in cold, harsh habitats, asexual reproduction has been linked to environments where biotic stress is low. The preeminence of asexual reproduction (by fissiparity) and polyploid forms in freshwater planarians inhabiting the unproductive, biotically unsaturated springs of the central Pyrenees adds new evidence to strengthen such links.
30244684|Modeling the spatial distribution of animals can be complicated by spatial and temporal effects (i.e. spatial autocorrelation and trends in abundance over time) and other factors such as imperfect detection probabilities and observation-related nuisance variables. Recent advances in modeling have demonstrated various approaches that handle most of these factors but which require a degree of sampling effort (e.g. replication) not available to many field studies. We present a two-step approach that addresses these challenges to spatially model species abundance. Habitat, spatial and temporal variables were handled with a Bayesian approach which facilitated modeling hierarchically structured data. Predicted abundance was subsequently adjusted to account for imperfect detection and the area effectively sampled for each species. We provide examples of our modeling approach for two endemic Hawaiian nectarivorous honeycreepers: iiwi Vestiaria coccinea and apapane Himatione sanguinea.
3682997|Mechanisms of the replacement of one species by another during a primary succession were studied in the deciduous woodland of the outer archipelago of Stockholm, Sweden, where there are only two principal tree species. Alnus glutinosa (alder) was most abundant close to the sea shore, while the abundance of Fraxinus excelsior (ash) increased with increasing elevation above sea level, which due to the isostatic land upheaval corresponds to increasing age of the site. Regeneration of the two species, followed in permanent plots, was different. Alder did not regenerate from seeds in the woodland. No seedling survived 3 yr, even under conditions of thin canopy and removed field-layer, and most died within the first year. In contrast, survival of ash was 35% after 10 yr. Annual height increments of the ash juveniles were < 8 mm under a closed canopy, but growth of the juveniles increased rapidly when a gap was opened out by a tree-fall. Thus, ash, in contrast to alder, possesses characters advantageous for regeneration in gaps, which may explain the successive replacement of alder by ash in this woodland.
30243134|In this paper, we present an individual-based cellular lattice model, which is based on a real landscape (Denmark). The model predicts the distribution of free-ranging mink from data collated on the geographic locations of fur farms, the number of breeding mink kept per farm, and a range of parameters regarding escape, reproduction, mortality, and dispersal. When evolution was incorporated in the model, the results showed that the degree of adaptation within the free-ranging mink population is likely to vary spatially, with lower adaptation in areas where farm mink density is highest (due to the greater number of escaping mink). We used the model to explore the potential consequences of closing mink farms, or limiting escapes from them, on the evolutionary ecology of the free-ranging population and found that depending upon the paramaterisation of the evolutionary processes, several different outcomes are possible. Closing mink farms may result in a crash of the free-ranging population, or alternatively it may result in the establishment of a better-adapted, truly feral population that may ultimately outnumber the population that was present before farm closures. The main purpose of this paper is to raise awareness of the potential importance of evolutionary processes for the naturalisation of mink in Denmark, and to highlight the need for further work. Future field studies should be targeted to reduce the uncertainty in key parameters, allowing the development of an improved version of this model that can be used to generate management recommendations. More generally, we believe that further work linking evolutionary and population biology is required particularly in an applied context. There are likely to be many further scenarios where evolutionary processes may hold the key to understanding both population and community dynamics.
3683819|In this study, we developed a simulation model based on the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of geographical ranges, to understand the role of species' environmental tolerances and the strength of the environmental gradient in determining spatial patterns in species richness. Using an one-dimensional space, we present the model and dissect its parameters. Also, we test the ability of the model to simulate richness in complex two-dimensional domains and to fit real patterns in species richness, using South American Tyrannidae as an example. We found that a mid-spatial peak in species richness arises spontaneously under conditions of high environmental tolerances and/or a weak environmental gradient, since this condition causes wide species' geographic ranges, which are constrained by domain's boundary and tend to overlap in the middle. Our model was also a good predictor of real patterns in species richness, especially under conditions of high environmental strength and small species' tolerance. We conclude that this kind of spatial simulation models based on species' physiological tolerance may be an important tool to understand the evolutionary dynamics of species' geographic ranges and in spatial patterns of species richness.
3683568|A crucial step in understanding the origin and maintenance of biological diversity is the assessment of its distribution over space and time and across environmental gradients. At the regional scale, two important attributes of species can be assessed that provide insight into speciation processes: species geographical and environmental ranges. The endemic tree flora of the Western Ghats is an interesting case for analyzing broad-scale biodiversity patterns because of the steep environmental gradients that characterize this tropical region of India. We analysed species geographical and environmental ranges by Canonical Correlation Analysis of point data from herbarium collections. We performed partial analyses to discriminate spatial and environmental correlates of species distribution, and evaluate the contribution of higher taxonomic ranks to these ranges. We identified different levels of organization in the distribution of endemism: 1) general features, such as the concentration of endemic species in the southern part of the Western Ghats, and the decrease in endemic species richness along the altitudinal and the dry season length gradients, and 2) patterns specific to genera or families, such as species niche separation along the environmental gradients. Our analyses enabled us to formulate hypotheses about the diversification of the endemic tree flora of the Western Ghats. They also confirm the value of Canonical Correlation Analysis as the suitable method for collection data analysis.
30244705|Despite its relevance for the persistence of populations, the ecological mechanisms underlying habitat use decisions of juvenile birds are poorly understood. We examined postfledging habitat selection of radio-tracked juvenile middle spotted woodpeckers Dendrocopos medius at multiple hierarchically-nested spatial scales in NW Spain. At the landscape and home range scales, old oak forest was the most used and selected habitat, young oak forests and pine plantations were avoided, and riverside forests were used as available. At a lower scale, birds selected larger diameter trees for foraging. Home ranges had higher densities of large deciduous trees (mainly oaks Quercus spp., but also poplars Populus spp. and willows Salix spp. >22 cm and >33 cm DBH) selected for foraging by juveniles than non-used areas. These results suggest that foraging conditions may drive, at least partly, habitat use decisions by juvenile birds. We also discuss the potential influence of intraspecific competition, the search for a future breeding territory in the early postfledging period and predation avoidance on habitat use decisions by juvenile birds. Contrary to previous studies on migrant forest birds, postfledging juvenile woodpeckers selected the same habitat as for the breeding adults (i.e. old oak forest), indicating that migrant and resident specialist avian species may require different conservation actions. Conservation strategies of woodpecker populations should consider the protection of old oak forests with high densities of large trees to provide suitable habitat to breeding adults and postfledging juveniles. The habitat improvement for this indicator and umbrella species would also favour other organisms that depend on characteristics of old-growth oak forests.
3683748|Quantitative studies are necessary to determine whether invasive plant species displace natives and reduce local biodiversity, or if they increase local biodiversity. Here we describe the effects of invasion by Norway maple Acer platanoides on riparian plant communities and tree regeneration at two different scales (individual tree vs stand scales) in western Montana, USA, using both descriptive and experimental approaches. The three stands differed in community composition with the stand most dominated by A. platanoides invasion being more compositionally homogenous, and less species rich (-67%), species even (-40%), and diverse (-75%) than the two other stands. This sharp decrease in community richness and diversity of the highly invaded stand, relative to the other stands, corresponded with a 28-fold increase in A. platanoides seedlings and saplings. The dramatic difference between stand 1 vs 2 and 3 suggests that A. platanoides invasion is associated with a dramatic change in community composition and local loss of species diversity; however, other unaccounted for differences between stands may be the cause. These whole-stand correlations were corroborated by community patterns under individual A. platanoides trees in a stand with intermediate levels of patchy invasion. At the scale of individual A. platanoides canopies within a matrix of native trees, diversity and richness of species beneath solitary A. platanoides trees declined as the size of the trees increased. These decreases in native community properties corresponded with an increase in the density of A. platanoides seedlings. The effect of A. platanoides at the stand scale was more dramatic than at the individual canopy scale; however, at this smaller scale we only collected data from the stand with intermediate levels of invasion and not from the stand with high levels of invasion. Transplant experiments with tree seedlings demonstrated that A. platanoides seedlings performed better when grown beneath conspecific canopies than under natives, but Populus and Pinus seedlings performed better when grown beneath Populus canopies, the dominant native. Our results indicate that A. platanoides trees suppress most native species, including the regeneration of the natural canopy dominants, but facilitate conspecifics in their understories.
3683820|Many ecological responses to environmental variables or anthropogenic agents are difficult and expensive to measure. Therefore it is attractive to describe such responses in terms of indicators that are easier to measure. In ecosystem management, indicators can be used to monitor spatial and temporal changes in an environmental feature. The aim of this paper is to show that it is important to take Liebig's law of the minimum into consideration to understand when it is appropriate or inappropriate to use ecological indicators based on abundance. When developing indicators that relate the abundance of an organism to an environmental factor, it is likely that this relationship will be polygonal rather than a simple linear relationship. The upper boundary of the distribution describes how abundance is limited by this factor, while the variation below the upper boundary is explained by situations when factors other than the factor of interest limit abundance. The variation below the upper boundary of the distribution means that the use of indicators to examine spatial patterns in the response of abundance to an environmental factor can be problematic. Thus, while abundance-based indicators can identify sites that are in a good condition, they are less useful to detect those affected by environmental degradation. In contrast, abundance-based ecological indicators may enable temporal monitoring of the impact of environmental factors, as it is expected that limiting factors are less variable in time than in space. In conclusion, when multiple factors are limiting, a significant correlation between an indicator and a variable is not enough to validate the status of a factor as an indicator.
3682761|Saxifraga osloensis is an allopolyploid plant, endemic to Scandinavia. A field study of its population biology was performed during two years, 1989-90 and 1990-91. The timing of different life stages in spring was correlated with weather conditions, mainly temperature. Density effects were found on survival of rosettes in autumn and on capsule production in spring. It seemed as if the density effects occurred only when the initial density was very high or when there was shortage of water. Most plants emerged in autumn, but between 10% and 15% emerged in spring. Spring germinators were exposed to higher mortality risks in spring than autumn germinators. Fitness, estimated as life-time capsule production, was lower for spring cohorts both years. Most plants in the spring cohorts produced no seeds. Thus, spring germination should not be selected for in this population.
3682759|Parasites and regional processes may be important to structure local species assemblages. In particular, it has been hypothesized that widely distributed and abundant species should harbour more parasite species which could give them a competitive advantage in local species assemblages. Empirical evidence bearing on these points are scarce and mainly restricted to vertebrate hosts or plants. The aim of this study was to provide data in insect hosts and to test whether the patterns in field populations conform with those correlates expected from the parasite-host distribution hypothesis. We investigated species assemblages of bumblebees at 12 different sites in a mesoscale region with their parasites over two consecutive years. Parasites included dipteran and hymenopteran parasitoids, nematodes, mites, and protozoa. The mean number of parasite species per host species ranged from 1 to 8. To account for sampling effort, all data were corrected for sample size effects. The number of parasite species per average host individual (parasite load) ranged from 0.09 to 0.75. In cross-species comparisons, the number of parasite species per host species was positively correlated with regional distribution, i.e. the number of sites a host species occupied in the region, and with the average local host abundance. The same relationships were found for parasite load. In addition, parasite load correlated positively with average colony size of the host species, but not with body size of the individuals. Bumblebee species were bimodally distributed. When separated into widely-distributed and locally-occurring species, common hosts harboured more parasite species than rare ones. Moreover, workers of common species individually had higher parasite loads. From these results, we conclude that some of the necessary preconditions for parasites being able to affect the distribution and occurrence of their hosts are met in bumblebees. The findings support a general pattern that parasite loads correlate positively with local abundance and geographical distribution of their hosts, also on mesoscales usually considered in ecological studies.
30243236|Estimating the population growth rate and environmental stochasticity of long-lived species is difficult because annual variation in population size is influenced by temporal autocorrelations caused by fluctuations in the agestructure. Here we use the dynamics of the reproductive value to estimate the long-term growth rate s and the environmental variance <tex-math>$\sigma_{e}^{2}$</tex-math> of a moose population that recently colonized the island of Vega in northern Norway. We show that the population growth rate was high ( = 0.26). The major stochastic influences on the population dynamics were due to demographic stochasticity, whereas the environmental variance was not significantly different from 0. This supports the suggestion that population growth rates of polytocous ungulates are high, and that demographic stochasticity must be assessed when estimating the growth of small ungulate populations.
30244704|Phylogenetic conservatism or heritability of the geographic range sizes of species has been predicted to occur because of the phylogenetic conservatism of niche traits. However, evidence for range size conservatism is mixed, and even when statistically significant is often rather weak and of questionable biological importance. Here, we test the prediction that such conservatism will be more strongly expressed when the amount of spatial overlap between sister species increases. We used the global distributions of 1136 avian species (> 10% of extant members of this Class), and tested the conservatism of geographic range sizes using the coefficients of correlation between values for pairs of sister species. We used a null model to test whether the range sizes of sister species were more similar to one another than expected by chance. We found that sister species showed a significant positive relationship between their geographic range sizes whatever the degree of spatial overlap. However, as predicted, the level of conservatism increases with the level of range overlap between sister species. More precisely, the strong increase in the coefficient of correlation between sister species' range sizes when we add species with some range overlap to the pool of pairs without any such overlap indicates an important threshold effect. These results suggest that niche conservatism is more likely to lead to marked heritability of the range sizes of species when similar niche traits are expressed under more similar environmental conditions. These results have significant implications because they suggest 1) that previous analyses of conservatism of range sizes have been confounded by the level of spatial overlap, and 2) that closely related species experiencing similar conditions may tend to expand or restrict their geographic ranges in parallel when faced with climate change.
3683216|The microdistribution of five butterfly species through their flying season was analyzed in a mosaic-like habitat, brought about by secondary succession. In order to explain the patterns observed, activity patterns and the use and distribution of nectar sources were determined. Emphasis was laid on the changing allocation of visits to flower species and changing abundances of flowers during the season. The use of nectar sources was basically limited to three flower species, Centaurea scabiosa, C. bracteata and Serratula tinctoria. As a consequence, niche breadth values were generally low and niche overlaps generally high. Some butterflies changed their patterns of flower visits during the season and therefore reduced niche overlap with the other butterfly species. The microdistribution of Melanargia galathea, Lysandra coridon, Ochlodes venatus and Lictoria achilleae was strongly influenced by the distribution of their preferred nectar sources as well as by areas generally rich in flowers. Changing flower preferences of Melanargia galathea and Lysandra coridon males during the course of the season were also expressed by changes in the correlations between the distribution of these butterflies and their nectar plants. The distribution of nectar sources was not found to be of importance for Coenonympha arcania, a species which rarely visited flowers.
3682903| In the forests of northern Fennoscandia during the 1980's, the dynamics of microtine rodents changed from multiannual high amplitude fluctuations (cycles) to, depending on species, fluctuations with a strong seasonal component or fluctuations with smaller amplitude and lower frequency. Microtine and predator data from the Pallasjrvi area, Finnish Lapland, suggest that this transition took place at different rates in different parts of the taiga landscape. Generally, densities in forest habitats have been primarily seasonal since 1985-86. In mesic spruce taiga and in drier forest habitats microtines had a prolonged peak in 1981-83 and a crash in 1984-85. At the timberline, however, microtine populations dropped from peak to low densities already in 1982-83 but the final crash did not occur until spring 1985. The synchronous decrease in microtines densities in all habitat types in 1984-85 coincided with increase in weasel activity. Activity of other carnivores was consistently high in mesic lowland habitats. The data support following three conjectures. 1) Periodic abundance of least weasels is crucial for sustained vole cycles. 2) Predominance of stoats and other generalist predators lead to less regular fluctuations with a strong seasonal component where density declines occur in autumn and early winter. 3) In barren tundra areas, the vegetation cannot sustain high densities of microtines and, consequently, predation is not a necessary condition for population crashes. 
3683042|Winter diet, body condition, growth, reproduction, and age structure of pine martens Martes martes were studied during cycles in microtine density in south-central Sweden. I analysed 398 scats collected in winters 1988-89 to 1996-97, and 483 carcasses from martens trapped in winters 1989-90 to 1992-93. Microtines were the single most frequent prey category in the winter diet, and the consumption of microtines was correlated with microtine density. In the absence of microtines, pine martens increased the relative consumption of some alternative prey, most notably hares. Among adults, total food consumption, body condition, and reproductive success did not follow microtine density. Among juveniles, there were indications of lower total food consumption, smaller fat deposits, and higher trapping vulnerability, and among juvenile females also of lower body growth, when microtines were scarce. The data were, however, not consistent in this respect. I suggest that pine martens in the southern boreal region do not suffer from food shortage at microtine lows, and accordingly, that the demography of pine martens is independent of microtine cycles.
30243245|Understanding the factors that regulate geographical variation in species richness has been one of the fundamental questions in ecology for decades, but our knowledge of the cause of geographical variation in species richness remains poor. This is particularly true for herpetofaunas (including amphibians and reptiles). Here, using correlation and regression analyses, we examine the relationship of herpetofaunal species richness in 245 localities across China with 30 environmental factors, which include nearly all major environmental factors that are considered to explain broad-scale species richness gradients in such theories as ambient energy, water-energy dynamics, productivity, habitat heterogeneity, and climatic stability. We found that the species richness of amphibians and reptiles is moderately to strongly correlated with most of the environmental variables examined, and that the best fit models, which include explanatory variables of temperature, precipitation, net primary productivity, minimum elevation, and range in elevation, explain ca 70% the variance in species richness for both amphibians and reptiles after accounting for sample area. Although water and temperature are important explanatory variables to both amphibians and reptiles, water variables explain more variance in amphibian species richness than in reptile species richness whereas temperature variables explain more variance in reptile species richness than in amphibian species richness, which is consistent with different physiological requirements of the two groups of organisms.
3683244|The objective of this study was to examine how population recruitment depends on seed size, and if relative abundance depends on colonization, in three plant species inhabiting dry semi-natural grasslands. All three species, Antennaria dioica, Hieracium pilosella and Hypochoeris maculata belong to the same family, Asteraceae, and possess similarly structured wind-dispersed fruits, achenes with pappus. They occupy the same range of habitats, but are not equally abundant. The seed size hierarchy is Hypochoeris > Hieracium > Antennaria. Results from experiments suggest that recruitment is promoted by small disturbances, but limited also by seed availability. Seed size differences explain interactions during recruitment; Hypochoeris "wins" over the other two species, and Hieracium wins over Antennaria. Seed arrival order did not alter this hierarchy. A model of relative abundance of the species was developed, based on observed differences in recruitment and seed output from local populations. The model was able to predict observed relative abundance patterns at a large spatial scale, especially at marginal sites along road verges (Hieracium > Hypochoeris > Antennaria), but not at smaller scales, where Antennaria was more frequent than Hypochoeris. The results support a metapopulation approach to abundance patterns in landscapes, and, more specifically, they support the hypothesis that species abundance reflects colonizing ability. An additional implication is that single source populations may be of great importance for species persistence in landscapes, a conclusion which has bearing on development of conservation and management plans for endangered habitats.
3683403|A sufficiently large body of knowledge on British ground beetle (Carabidae) communities now exists to allow investigation of whether habitats may be classified or described on the basis of their ground beetle communities, in the same way that the National Vegetation Classification (NVC) describes British plant communities. A data set of ground beetle abundances from pitfall traps at 481 sites in a range of natural, semi-natural and agricultural habitats throughout Scotland was available for analysis. Multivariate analysis (detrended correspondence analysis and fuzzy cluster analysis) was carried out on proportional catch data of 156 species of ground beetle from 444 of these sites and the results related to the NVC of the sites. Initial analysis classified the sites into five broad categories: 1) peatlands, 2) calcifugous, 3) mesotrophic, 4) dry river sediments and 5) damp river sediments. Further analysis identified 15 ground beetle assemblages, each corresponding to a relatively well defined vegetation type within one of these broad categories. The major environmental factors appearing to determine the distribution of ground beetle assemblages were substratum type, disturbance and soil moisture, all of which are also important determinants of the distribution of plant communities. The presence and absence of relatively stenotopic species were important discriminants of certain habitats such as wetlands and river sediments but the relative abundances within assemblages of more eurytopic species provided good indications of a relationship between ground beetle assemblages and NVC categories.
30244556|Our understanding of latitudinal life history patterns may benefit by jointly considering age and mass at maturity and growth rate. Additional insight may be gained by exploring potential constraints through pushing growth rates to their maximum and scoring physiological cost-related variables. Therefore, we reared animals of a univoltine Spanish and Belgian population and of a semivoltine Swedish population of the damselfly Enallagma cyathigerum (spanning a latitude gradient of ca 2350 km) in a common environment from the eggs until adult emergence and exposed them to a transient starvation period to induce compensatory growth. Besides age and mass at maturity and growth rate we also scored investment in energy storage (i.e. triglycerides) and immune function (i.e. total activity of phenoloxidase). At emergence, body mass was greater in Spain and Sweden and lower in Belgium, suggesting a genetic component for the U-shaped latitudinal pattern that was found also in a previous study based on field-collected adults. The mass difference between univoltine populations can be explained by the shorter development time in the Belgian population, and this despite a higher growth rate, a pattern consistent with undercompensating countergradient variation. In line with the assumed shorter growth seasons, Belgian and Swedish animals showed higher routine growth rates and compensatory growth after transient starvation. Despite a strong link with metabolic rates (as measured by oxygen consumption) populations with higher routine growth rates had no lower fat content and had higher immune function (i.e. immune function decreased from Sweden to Spain), which was unexpected. Rapid compensatory growth did, however, result in a lowered immune function. This may contribute to the absence of perfect compensating countergradient variation in the Belgian population and the lowest routine growth rates in the Spanish population. Our results underscore the importance of integrating key life historical with physiological traits for understanding latitudinal population differentiation.
30244681|We investigated whether signals of known dispersal processes and habitat patch turnover could be detected in a snapshot of the distribution of the tansy leaf beetle Chrysolina graminis among patches of its host plant tansy Tanacetum vulgare. Beetle occupancy in 1305 patches was analysed using autologistic generalised additive models (GAMs). These model spatial autocorrelation with an autocovariate calculated as the distance-weighted rate of occupancy among neighbouring patches. The autocovariate that best explained beetle occupancy was one which represented the active search for patches during beetle dispersal, included a distance weight that closely matched a previously fitted dispersal kernel and had neighbourhood sizes encompassing N95% of known dispersal distances. Autocovariates distinguishing between neighbours on the same and opposite riverbanks outperformed those that did not, revealing the river as a barrier to dispersal. Differentiating between up and downstream autocorrelation did not improve model fit, as is consistent with the beetle's lack of directional bias in dispersal. Habitat connectivity (the extent to which it was surrounded by other patches) did not appear to affect beetle occupancy in the field, while positive effects were found for distributions simulated from the GAM. We argue that this reflects a non-equilibrium distribution driven by slow responses to high rates of habitat patch turnover due to limited dispersal ability. Our findings suggest that presence/absence snapshots can reveal patterns of dispersal and be used to test whether species' ranges are at equilibrium. Such information is important for effective conservation so the possibility of inferring these patterns from distribution data is an appealing one.
30243140|Shannon's and Simpson's indices have been the most widely accepted measures of ecological diversity for the past fifty years, even though neither statistic accounts for species abundances across geographic locales ("patches"). An abundant species that is endemic to a single patch can be as much of a conservation concern as a rare cosmopolitan species. I extend Shannon's and Simpson's indices to simultaneously account for species richness and relative abundances - i.e. extend them to multispecies metacommunities - by making the inputs to each index a matrix, rather than a vector. The Shannon's index analogue of diversity is mutual entropy of species and patches divided by marginal entropy of the individual geographic patches. The Simpson's index analogue of diversity is a modification of mutual entropy, with the logarithm moved to the outside of the summation, divided by Simpson's index of the patches. Both indices are normalized for number of patches, with the result being inversely proportional to biodiversity. These methods can be extended to account for time-series of such matrices and average age-classes of each species within each patch, as well as provide a measure of spatial coherence of communities.
3682772|Species composition and diversity were compared among twenty Mediterranean annual grasslands in northern and central California and central and southern Spain, encompassing climatic gradients and local site variation in topography and soils. Geographic proximity was more important than environmental factors such as climate, topography and parent material in predicting the species composition of these grasslands, with Californian and Spanish grasslands sharing only 9% of the species and geographically separated regions within each country sharing only 20-32% of the species. This importance of geographic separation in predicting species composition suggests a strong role of dispersal limitation in determining current community composition. Mean species diversity was lower in Californian than in Spanish grasslands and was negatively correlated with cover of annual grasses that tended to be greater in California than in Spain. However, there were few differences in species diversity among sites within either country and patterns of species diversity were unrelated to soil fertility or productivity. We suggest that current grazing regimes contribute to the greater abundance of grasses and lower species diversity of Californian than of Spanish grasslands. The apparent importance of dispersal limitation and grazing in explaining differences in species composition and diversity between Californian and Spanish grasslands and within each country suggest that the structure of these grasslands has been and will continue to be sensitive to human influence.
3683349|We sampled the wood beetle fauna in 1) living hollow, 2) standing dead and 3) downed dead beech Fagus sylvatica logs in fragmented old-growth forests in southern Sweden. In nearly primaeval stands, species richness was similar in the three types of microhabitat, but in previously (50-100 yr ago) managed stands species richness was lower in living hollow trees. The number of red-listed beetle species per sample was higher in living hollow beeches in nearly primaeval stands than in formerly managed stands, but there was no difference in downed dead beeches. This agrees with our expectation, based on the relative stability of the microhabitats, that species living in hollow trees would have a lower dispersal propensity than those that depend on dead, downed logs. Among 55 red-listed species found, 69% had a higher frequency in nearly primaeval stands than in previously managed stands. For 22 endangered plus vulnerable species the figure was 77%. Most red-listed species had occurrence frequencies of 5%, or less.
30244530|We studied the long-term changes in the flora in the archipelago of SW Finland by comparing historic plant species lists from 331 islands surveyed in the 1930s to 1940s, to lists compiled in 1996-2004. We used plants as indicators to indirectly detect changes in the environment based on changes in species frequencies. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was used to examine if there was a change in species composition during this 60-70 yr period. More species increased in frequency (180, 31.1%) than decreased (77, 13.6%). The number of species occurrences increased by 10.6%. Species of shores, mires, wetlands, and woods increased, while species of shore meadows, pastures, and heaths decreased. For the non-shore species the interpretation of the DCA and the comparisons of plant indicator values between the old and the new data indicate lower cultural impact, decreased light conditions, a higher level of moisture and nitrogen, and a higher proportion of perennials on the new data islands. The shore plants indicate that productivity has increased over the study period, probably reflecting the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea.
3683359|We studied consumption of wild fruits by redwings Turdus iliacus coburni at two sites on the southwest coast of Iceland, just prior to the autumn migration. During this period the principal study site offers c. 800 000 fruits ha
30243193|Seed dispersal can severely limit the quantity of plant recruits and their spatial distribution. However, our understanding of the role of dispersal in regeneration dynamics is limited by the lack of knowledge of seed deposition patterns in space and time. In this paper, we analyse the spatiotemporal variability of seed dispersal patterns in the Mediterranean maple, Acer opalus subsp. granatense, by monitoring seed rain along two years at a broad spatial scale (2 mountain ranges, 2 populations per range, 4 microhabitats per population). We quantified seed limitation and its components (source and dispersal limitation), and explored dispersal limitation in space by analysing dispersal distances, seed aggregation, and microhabitat seed distribution. Acer opalus subsp. granatense was strongly seed-limited throughout the gradients explored, being always dispersal limitation much higher than source limitation. The distribution of seeds with distance from adult individuals was leptokurtic and right-skewed in all populations, being both kurtosis and skewness higher the year of the highest seed production. Dispersal distances were shorter than expected by random in the four populations, which suggests distance-limited dispersal. Dispersal patterns were highly aggregated and showed a preferential direction around adults. At the microhabitat scale, most seeds accumulated under adult maples. However, there were no more seeds under trees and shrubs other than maple than in open interspaces, implying that established vegetation does not disrupt patterns of seed deposition by physically trapping seeds. When compared with patterns of seedling establishment, limited dispersal ability and inter-annual spatial concordance in seed rain patterns suggest that several potentially safe sites for recruitment have a very low probability of receiving seeds in most maple populations. These findings are especially relevant for rare species such as Acer opalus subsp. granatense, and illustrate how dispersal studies are not only crucial for our understanding of plant population dynamics but also to provide conservation directions.
3682930|The Rabinowitz's model of rarity was applied to a vascular plant census list from 60 deciduous woods in western Norway. By applying information from distribution maps and plant sociological literature from western Norway it was possible to obtain data on geographical distribution, habitat specificity, and maximum local population size at the regional-scale of western Norway. This enabled a comparison between rarity at the local scale and rarity at the regional scale. At the local scale rarity was primarily due to narrow geographic distribution. At the regional scale, however, the most frequent form of rarity was due to restricted habitat specificity. The species/area relationship and the SLOSS effect for the rare species at the regional scale are compared with patterns involving the total species list. It is shown that a single large wood supports fewer regional-scale rare species than do combinations of two small woods of equal area. The species/area relationship for species with small population sizes at the regional scale has a different slope from the species/area relationship for all species. Area is a better predictor of regional-scale rarity than is the number of common species.
3683273|Variation in small-scale plant species richness was examined between twenty discrete sites of calcareous alvar grasslands in the western Estonian coastal area. This community type is very species rich at the small-scale. The pattern of diversity has often been explained by variation in ecological conditions which makes it possible to avoid competitive exclusion. Here we test an alternative species pool hypothesis. The species pool was defined as the set of species present in a community, but excluding all those species whose presence may be connected with exceptional environmental conditions for this community. Monte Carlo modelling was used to determine the strengths of the relationships between the non-independent variables: richness vs species pool and average shoot density vs richness. Site age was characterized by its elevation above sea level, since there is a continuous land uplift in the study area. Species richness was positively correlated to the size of the species pool, community age and vegetation density. We conclude that historical processes on both the regional and local levels, which determine the arrival of any particular species to a target community, and not environmental heterogeneity, are responsible for the variations in species richness between communities of this type.
30243158|While the successional dynamics and large-scale structure of Douglas-fir forest in the Pacific Northwest region is well studied, the fine-scale spatial characteristics at the stand level are still poorly understood. Here we investigated the fine-scale spatial structure of forest on Vancouver Island, in order to understand how the three dominant species, Douglas-fir, western hemlock, and western redcedar, coexist and partition space along a chronosequence comprised of immature, mature, and old-growth stands. We quantified the changes in spatial distribution and association of the species along the chronosequence using the scale-dependent point pattern analyses pair-correlation function g(r) and Ripley's L-function. Evidence on intra- and inter-specific competition was also inferred from correlations between nearest-neighbor distances and tree size. Our results show that 1) the aggregation of Douglas-fir in old-growth was primarily caused by variation in local site characteristics, 2) only surviving hemlock were more regular than their pre-mortality patterns, a result consistent with strong intra-specific competition, 3) inter-specific competition declined rapidly with stand age due to spatial resource partitioning, and 4) tree death was spatially randomly distributed among larger overstory trees. The study highlights the importance of spatial heterogeneity for the long-term coexistence of shade-intolerant pioneer Douglas-fir and shade-tolerant western hemlock and western redcedar.
3683105|Breeding population of the whooper swan Cygnus cygnus has increased dramatically in Finland during the last 50 yr, from ca 15 to 1500 pairs. We studied if the recent recolonization by the whooper swan into waterfowl communities in Finland has had negative effects on Anas species belonging to the same foraging guild. Using data of foraging behaviour and ecomorphology of the whooper swan and Anas species, we studied the position of the former in the dabbling guild. We used long-term duck census data from different parts of Finland to study changes in breeding numbers of Anas species in lakes that have been recently colonized by the whooper swan and in control lakes that have not been colonized. Overall, foraging and ecomorphological similarity between the whooper swan and the other species decreased in the following order: pintail A. acuta (most similar), mallard A. platyrhynchos, shoveler A. clypeata, garganey A. querquedula, wigeon A. penelope, teal A. crecca (least similar). We did not find evidence of adverse impact by the whooper swan colonization on population densities of the other species. Neither did we find any indication that species relatively more similar with the whooper swan in terms of foraging ecology would show relatively more negative response to the whooper swan colonization. Our results suggest that whooper swans have occupied vacant niche space when colonizing boreal waterfowl communities.
3683369|The effects of local habitat and large-scale landscape factors on species diversity and species interactions were studied using the insect community in stems of the creeping thistle Cirsium arvense. Thistle abundance was higher in fallows than in crop fields and field margins, with fallows providing 67% of thistle abundance within 15 study areas on a landscape scale. Species richness of the herbivores was positively related with thistle abundance, parasitoid species richness was influenced by habitat type and was positively correlated with herbivore species richness. The abundance of herbivores and parasitoids was affected by local factors such as habitat type and host abundance, but also by landscape factors such as the percentage of non-crop area and the isolation of habitats. The infestation rate caused by the agromyzid Melanagromyza aeneoventris was positively related to percent non-crop area, whereas the parasitism rate of this fly increased with increasing habitat diversity on the landscape scale. For these two interactions and for total herbivore abundance, a scale-dependency of the landscape effects was found. The results emphasize that biological diversity and ecological functions within a plant-insect community are not only affected by local habitat factors but also by large-scale landscape characteristics. Hence, to improve future agri-environmental schemes for biodiversity conservation and biological control large-scale landscape effects and their scale-dependency should be considered.
3683556|The object of our study was to determine the effect of distribution and habitat specialization of odonate species on local extinction in streams in central Finland. We studied the local extinction of the 20 most abundant dragonfly (Odonata) species in 34 small creeks and brooks in central Finland. The historical presence of each studied species in our research area was confirmed using existing records gathered between 1930 and 1975. A minimum of five records was available for each species. During the summers of 1995 and 1996, we investigated the current persistence of 219 separate populations with historical presence. In total, 98 historical populations were vanished. As predicted, we found that species with a narrow distribution were less persistent than species with a broad distribution. Therefore, the extinction risk of a species was inversely related to the width of its regional distribution. Using reference works, species were categorized into two main breeding habitat types: lotic species or lentic species. The species main habitat type was a significant predictor of local extinction risk after statistical removal of the effect of regional distribution on extinction risk. The lotic species had lower local extinction risk than other species. Altogether, the highest extinction risk was found in habitat-specialist species associated with peatlands, probably due to loss of natural breeding habitat. On the other hand, extinction risk was lower in widely distributed habitat generalist species than true lotic species. The local extinction within species was more common in small dynamic upstream than in larger stable downstream habitats. The results of this study are consistent with meta-population theory.
3683022|The frequency distribution of national population sizes of breeding birds was examined for each of 48 European countries, including autonomous regions, using data from the European Bird Database. The frequency distribution of logarithmically transformed abundance was left skewed in 40 countries; there was significant left skew in 10, and positive skew, in 2 countries. The inclusion of data classed as of low quality did not alter the conclusion that abundance patterns were predominantly left skewed. Abundance patterns of resident and migrant breeding birds differed; residents were left skewed, migrants were lognormal. Skewness was correlated negatively the number of species within a country. At low sample size, both left and right skews were evident, but left skews predominated at larger samples sizes. This pattern was driven partly by a difference between breeding populations on islands and on continental countries. Resampling procedures with fixed sample size showed that resident and migrant birds differed consistently in their patterns of skew, independent of sample size. If the birds of Europe were treated as a single assemblage, their abundance pattern was left skewed but this was driven by a very small number of vagrant breeders.
3682882|We studied the effects of forest patch size and forest edge structure on nest predation in a boreal coniferous forest landscape. The following predictions were tested. Nest predation should be higher in small than in large stands, in edges than in interior areas of forest stands, and in barren forest/clear-cut edges created by forestry than in natural forest/open marsh edges. Four types of artificial above ground nests (total of 261) were used; open cup nests with reindeer Rangifer t. tarandus hair, open cup nests with domestic hen Gallus domesticus feathers, and unlined open cup and nest-box nests. Nests were baited with one Japanese quail Coturnix coturnix japonica egg. Nest-boxes were depredated significantly less than open cup nests of all types. No edge- or stand size-related nest predation was found. The predation rate, regardless of the nest type, did not differ relative to the edge type and vegetation characteristics. However, better horizontal visibility of open cup nests due to more open vegetation structure increased predation risk in man-made edges compared to inherent edges. The results suggest that edge-related nest predation is absent or weak in forest dominated landscapes. This may be due to predator types present in the landscape and/or predators habitat use in forest dominated areas. Therefore, it might be that findings documented in other areas, such as in agricultural dominated landscapes, cannot be directly applied to managed forest landscapes.
3682960|The effects of light intensity and nutrient availability on the biomass allocation of Calamagrostis canadensis were studied under both greenhouse and field conditions. In the greenhouse, seedlings from forest and wetland populations were grown in sand-peat mixtures, under three light intensities and three fertilizer levels. Total above and below ground growth increased with light intensity and nutrient availability; nutrient availability, however, only altered plant growth when light intensity was above moderate levels. Numbers of rhizomes were greatest under low and moderate nutrient regimes but high light was also needed for maximum numbers of rhizomes. In the field, tillers and rhizomes were examined under open, 40% and 85% canopy cover. Tiller and rhizome weight and diameter of rhizomes decreased with canopy closure. However, proportional allocation of biomass to rhizomes was greatest and percentage total non-structural carbohydrates of rhizomes was lowest under a 40% canopy.
30244706|In the multi-use landscape of southern Norway, the distribution of lynx is likely to be determined both by the abundance of their favoured prey - the roe deer - and the risk associated with the presence of humans because most lynx mortalities are caused by humans (recreational harvest, poaching, vehicle collisions). We described the distribution of the reproductive portion of the lynx population based on snow-track observations of females with dependent kittens collected over 10 yr (1997-2006) in southern Norway. We used the ecological-niche factor analysis to examine how lynx distribution was influenced by roe deer, human activity, habitat type, environmental productivity and elevation. Our first prediction that lynx should be found in areas of relatively high roe deer abundance was supported. However, our second prediction that lynx should avoid human activity was rejected, and lynx instead occupied areas more disturbed in average than those available (with the exception of the most densely occupied areas). Lynx, however, avoided the most disturbed areas and our third prediction of a trade-off between abundance of prey and avoidance of human activity was supported. On the one hand, roe deer in the most disturbed areas benefit to a large extent from current human land use practices, potentially allowing them to escape predation from lynx. On the other hand, the situation is not so favourable for the predators who are restricted in competition refuges with medium to low prey densities. The consequence is that lynx conservation will have to be achieved in a human modifed environment where the potential for a range of conflicts and high human-caused mortality will remain a constant threat.
3683227| To test the effects of habitat fragmentation and edge on the rate of nest predation in an urban ecosystem, 20 artificial nests each containing 2 plasticine eggs were distributed in each of 24 bushland sites in Sydney, Australia. The eastern yellow robin Eopsaltria australis was adopted as a target species, and variables of nests, eggs and nesting behaviour were manipulated in experiments. Sites ranged in size from 3.8 ha to 14717 ha and were divided into three size classes: 1) 0-10 ha, 2) 11-100 ha and 3)  101 ha. Nests were positioned either around the edge of the fragment (within 50 m from the fragment boundary) or within the centre of the fragment (> 50 m from the fragment boundary). The predation rate was calculated as the percentage of nests that had one or both eggs damaged or removed after 15 d of exposure. Nest predation rates were high (average 70.6%) but were not affected by patch size or distance from fragment edges. Predators were identified by marks of the beak or teeth left in the plasticine eggs. Nest predators identified were birds, black rats, brown antechinus and ringtail possum, with the majority of predation being by birds (61.7%). Our findings differ from those of most previous studies of nest predation, and perhaps reflect the ubiquity of generalist predators and the degree of habitat modification throughout remnants of bushland in the urban environment. 
20696311|Efforts to disentangle the mechanisms underlying large-scale spatial patterns need to rely on multi-scale approaches. We illustrate this key issue by analyzing the spatial consistency across scales of the effects of abiotic constraints on the regeneration of English yew Taxus baccata in Europe. We hypothesized that the recruitment rates in a given population would be strongly affected by water availability, which should result in a predictable pattern of regeneration success at regional and continental scales. Accordingly, we predicted: 1) at the regional scale water availability should be higher in sites occupied by yew populations than in random locations; 2) at the regional scale regeneration success should decrease when water availability is lower; and 3) at the continental scale, regeneration success should also decrease where water availability is lower, resulting in decreasing regeneration southwards. To test these predictions we first monitored seedling emergence and survival in two central Spanish populations over two years, and confirmed that yew recruitment is limited by water availability. Additionally, our analysis supported predictions 1 and 2: water availability strongly affected yew presence and regeneration success. At the continental scale (prediction 3), our results confirmed lower regeneration in southern European populations. Assessing the effect of climatic constraints across scales in key population parameters can help to improve large-scale assessments of impacts of climate change on biodiversity.
3683697| We examined variation in growth and habitat use of individually PIT-tagged brown trout Salmo trutta in three stream enclosures, each divided into a fine substrate, deep pool habitat and a coarse substrate, shallow habitat. Habitat use and movements of individual fish were monitored continually by placing PIT detectors between habitats. All fish were measured and weighed biweekly over a three month period. There was no significant relationship between habitat use and initial body size, nor was there a consistent relationship between habitat use and densities of benthic macroinvertebrates or abundance of drifting invertebrates in the two habitats. Most habitat changes occurred at night, with activity peaks just prior to sunrise and after sunset. Trout used pools more at night than during the day. Within any given day, diurnal and nocturnal habitat use of individual fish varied little, with variation greater at night than during the day. Partial habitat segregation by sex was observed; only males used pools extensively during daytime, whereas males and females used riffles. Growth rate was positively related to use of pools during daytime but not at night. Growth rate was also affected by enclosure, with growth rates being highest in the most downstrean enclosure, which had the deepest pool (mean of 42 cm) and lowest in the most upstream enclosure, which had the shallowest pool (mean of 28 cm). A complete exchange of trout between the most upstream and downstream enclosure indicated that the enclosure effect was due to physical differences and not to individual fish differences between enclosures. The effect appears to have been caused by differences in depth as daytime use of pools was correlated with the area of the pool  35 cm deep, and production of trout biomass per enclosure was directly related to mean pool depth. Our results suggest that there is a relationship between habitat use and growth of individuals that is independent of body size, but that this relationship is influenced by sex of the fish and by the physical characteristics of the environment. Further, the data indicate that short-term behavioral decisions on habitat use by brown trout have a potential effect on longer-term individual fitness through growth rates. 
3683339|Few studies have explicitly examined avian community structure in the North American northern boreal forest. Herein we report upon the results of bird surveys in mature stands of boreal forest in the Great Clay Belt, Ontario, Canada. We related trends in avian community structure and individual bird species' abundance to two environmental gradients described in a landbase classification scheme called the Forest Ecosystem Classification - a moisture and a nutrient-richness gradient. Variation in environmental characteristics is limited in the Ontario Clay Belt and this was reflected in short environmental gradient lengths. However, major trends in avian community structure were strongly associated with the nutrient-richness gradient axis summarized by this scheme. Analyses of avian community composition indicated a continuum from moist, coniferous habitats to drier aspen-dominated mixed woodlands with several bird species occurring in varying abundances across the width of both gradients. 48 of the 58 species examined showed statistically significant associations with at least one of the two multivariate gradient axes. A smaller proportion of short-distance migrant species were associated with these gradients than were species in either the neotropical migrant or resident categories. We used a multivariate variable ("habitat breadth") to compare degree of habitat specialization across different migratory groups. A large proportion of neotropical migrants showed a high degree of habitat specialization in mature Clay Belt forests, and neotropical species with small habitat breadths were more commonly associated with habitats dominated by broad-leaved deciduous tree species than either short-distance or permanent resident species. We discuss our findings in relation to the post-glacial history of the Clay Belt region.
30243219|We tested the hypothesis that populations in small habitat fragments remaining in agricultural landscapes are maintained by repeated immigration, using three grassland butterflies (Aphantopus hyperantus, Coenonympha pamphilus and Maniolajurtina). Transect counts in 12 matched sets of semi-natural pastures, and linear habitat elements proximate and isolated from the pastures showed that population densities of M jurtina and C pamphilus were significantly higher in pastures and in linear habitats adjacent to these than in isolated linear elements. A mark-recapture study in a 2 x 2 km landscape indicated that individuals of all three species are able to reach even the isolated linear elements situated at least 1 km from the grasslands. For two of the species, A. hyperantus and C pamphilus, analysis of the mark-recapture data revealed higher daily local survival rates in the semi-natural pastures and more individuals dispersing from pastures to linear habitat elements. The proportion of old compared to young individuals of C pamphilus and M jurtina were significantly higher in linear elements than in semi-natural pastures, which suggests that butterflies emerging in pastures subsequently dispersed to the linear elements. In combination, these results suggest that semi-natural pastures act as population sources, from which adult butterflies disperse to surrounding linear elements. Hence, preservation of the remaining fragments of semi-natural grassland is necessary to keep the present butterfly abundance in the surrounding agricultural landscape.
3683799|We investigated the influence of anthropogenic disturbance on the structure of arboreal Formicidae communities in SE Asian lowland forests. Included were a primary forest and three disturbed forests which had been cut for crop planting and abandoned 5, 15, and 40 yr after agricultural use for natural regeneration. Ant communities of at least 10 individuals of one tree species were sampled from each forest type by fogging. Diversity and community structure differed clearly among forest types. During the course of forest regeneration ant communities became more and more similar to those of the primary forest. A surrogate analysis shows that ant communities of the primary forest cannot be distinguished from randomly composed communities. This is in contrast to the theoretical expectations according to which ant communities should be structured by interspecific competition that lead to a large degree of predictability. However, a deterministic pattern of ant communities is found in the disturbed forest. This indicates that human disturbance not only changes the faunistic composition of ant communities but could also change the dynamics of the whole system. The transition from stochastic to deterministic communities might be of general importance for understanding the mechanisms structuring communities in disturbed habitats.
30244529|Optimal foraging theory concerns animal behavior in landscapes where food is concentrated in patches. The efficiency of foraging is an effect of both the animal behavior and the geometry of the landscape; furthermore, the landscape is itself affected by the foraging of animals. We investigated the effect of landscape heterogeneity on the efficiency of an optimal forager. The particular aspect of heterogeneity we considered was "clumpiness"-the degree to which food resource patches are clustered together. The starting point for our study was the framework of the Mean Value Theorem (MVT) by Charnov. Since MVT is not spatially explicit, and thus not apt to investigate effects of clumpiness, we built an agent-based (or individual-based) model for animal movement in discrete landscapes extending the MVT. We also constructed a model for generating landscapes where the clumpiness of patches can be easily controlled, or "tuned", by an input parameter. We evaluated the agent based model by comparing the results with what the MTV would give, i.e. if the spatial effects were removed. The MVT matched the simulations best on landscapes with random patch configuration and high food recovery rates. As for our main question about the effects of clumpiness, we found that, when landscapes were highly productive (rapid food replenishment), foraging efficiency was greatest in clumped landscapes. In less productive landscapes, however, foraging efficiency was lowest in landscapes with a clumped patch distribution.
3683525|Reindeer grazing has a considerable influence on mineralization processes in northern Fennoscandian boreal forests, but the mechanisms underlying the observed differences between grazed and ungrazed areas are not well understood. We studied the below-ground impacts of reindeer grazing by comparing the carbon and nitrogen mineralization rates inside and outside long-term fenced reindeer exclosure areas in five oligotrophic, lichen-dominated and five mesotrophic, dwarf-shrub dominated forests. The soil C mineralization rates and microbial metabolic activity
3683319| Selective foraging by cervids can affect vegetation, and that in turn can have far-reaching effects on various components of the boreal forest ecosystem. Since terrestrial gastropods are sensitive to habitat alterations, they can be expected to respond to changes caused by grazing. This study is based on gastropod specimens from two data sets that were collected with pitfall traps in order to study the effects of moose and reindeer on ground-layer invertebrates. Invertebrates were trapped from 23 pairs of plots, where one plot was open to all animals while the other one was fenced to exclude large mammals. Half of the sites were in Finnish Lapland, where reindeer grazing was the main cause of differences between the plots; the rest were located in central Sweden and southern Finland, where moose was the most important cervid grazer. The composition of the gastropod fauna differed between grazed and ungrazed plots in both areas, and the abundance of gastropods in general and that of many species was higher in ungrazed plots (the number of gastropods caught was 17% lower in grazed than in ungrazed plots in moose sites, and 24% smaller in reindeer sites). Species richness differed significantly between grazed and ungrazed plots in the combined data of both site types, and was 15% higher in ungrazed plots. In moose sites the relative diversity (
3683845|The maximum extent of sea ice in the northern hemisphere has been contracting for several decades, with implications for all ice-associated biota. To determine how variation in ice conditions affects reproduction in marine birds, we studied the effects of ice conditions on breeding of four species of seabirds over four years at Prince Leopold Island, Nunavut, a colony close to the limits of ice conditions where breeding is feasible. In 2000 and 2003, open water was present close to the colony in June, when the birds began to lay eggs. In 2001 and 2002, the ice edge in June was >200 km to the east of the colony, forcing birds to commute long distances to open water to feed. Egg-laying by thick-billed murres, black-legged kittiwakes and glaucous gulls was delayed and eggs and clutches were smaller in 2001 and 2002. However, northern fulmars laid at the same time in all years, although their incubation shifts were longer in 2001 and 2002 than in 2003. Open water was present close to the colony by the time of hatching in all years. Despite this, nestling survival of northern fulmars, body condition and nestling growth of thick-billed murres and body condition and nestling survival of black-legged kittiwakes were lower in 2001 and 2002 than in 2000 and 2003. All these indicators suggest that feeding conditions in the years of late ice break-up continued to be worse than usual even after open water was available at the colony. Our study suggests that current trends towards earlier ice break-up in the Arctic may be beneficial for marine birds at Prince Leopold Island, at least in the short-term.
30244619|Mediterranean ecosystems are hotspots of species richness where fire is one of the key processes influencing their structure, composition and function. Post-fire seedling emergence constitutes a crucial event in the life cycle of plants and species-specific temporal and spatial patterns of seedling emergence have been hypothesized to contribute to the high diversity in these ecosystems. Here we study the temporal and spatial patterns of seedling emergence observed for the four dominant species (Cistus albidus, Ulex parviflorus, Helianthemum marifolium, Ononisfruticosa) after an experimental fire in a Mediterranean gorse shrubland. In a first analysis we compared the timing of emergence of each species using the Kaplan-Meier method. The spatial component of seedling emergence and the spatiotemporal relationship between different cohorts of the same species were analyzed using recent techniques of spatial point pattern analyses. We found a bimodal temporal pattern of emergence. Emergence of Cistaceae species (H. marifolium and C. albidus) occurred predominantly early after the fire while Fabaceae (0. fruticosa and U. parviflorus) emerged mainly during the following autumn. Individually, all species showed an aggregated spatial pattern and, when testing for pair interactions, we found that the clusters of individual species were spatially segregated. Additionally, the clusters of individual species showed an internal spatial structure where seedlings of different cohorts were spatially segregated. Theoretical models predict that these patterns will promote species coexistence. We identified a number of mechanisms that all have the potential to contribute to the observed pattern formation. However, the potential interaction among these mechanisms are complex and not easy to predict. Our analyses take a significant step forward in studying seedling emergence in fire prone ecosystems since, to our knowledge, this is the first time that both spatial and temporal patterns of all dominant species have been studied together.
3683706|Nine Campanula species occurring along the elevation gradient of Mt Olympos were studied regarding their pollination ecology. The main issues considered were 1) the relative importance of various insect taxa as Campanula pollinators, 2) the patterns of pollinators' size and activity as a function of altitude, 3) the effect of pollinator exclusion on floral longevity, and 4) the extent to which the morphological difference of C. versicolor from the other Campanula species on Mt Olympos is expressed in its pollinating fauna. The vast majority of Campanula pollinators were solitary bees. Andrenidae and Megachilidae bees (mainly Chelostoma campanulorum) dominated the pollinating fauna of most species. Melittidae and bumblebees were the commonest pollinators of high altitude species. Campanula versicolor differs from the other Campanula species in that its corolla is not bell-shaped but flat. Mainly Apis mellifera, syrphid flies, and carpenter bees, unlike all other Campanula species on Mt Olympos pollinated it. At the species level, rather large altitudinal differences of Campanula populations did not result into large diversification of their pollinating fauna. The insect visitation rate to flowers decreased with altitude. When pollinators were excluded, the floral longevity of the species examined increased three to five times. Neither flower phase (male of female) was consistently favoured in the absence of pollinators. The pollen loads of the different insect taxa (Apis mellifera included) were of variable purity. The majority of Megachilidae bees carried pollen loads of high purity. Pollen loads from insects visiting Campanula species at high altitudes did not differ significantly in their purity from those visiting lowland species. The distribution of Campanula pollinators' body size along the altitudinal gradient exhibited a U-shaped pattern. No relationship was found between insect-pollinator body size and corolla size of Campanula species.
3683447|We investigated the relative importance of metapopulation processes versus environmental conditions for the distribution of freshwater plants in 51 adjacent lakes in southern Sweden. Each lake was surveyed by snorkeling in a zigzag pattern over the littoral zone, and all aquatic vascular plants as well as water colour, Sphagnum-dominated shore, bottom substrate, littoral zone width and Secchi-depth were recorded. Data on lake area and altitude was taken from topographical maps. Multiple generalized linear regressions were used to test the significance of factors influencing species number and incidence of specific species in lakes. The best combination of predictor variables for species number was lake area ( = 0.52), area of upstream lakes ( = 0.23), and height above sea-level ( = -0.21) (whole model <tex-math>${\rm R}^{2}=0.52$</tex-math>). The presence-absence patterns of most of the studied species were affected positively by connectivity, measured both as geographical proximity of the lakes and as connection to upstream lakes. The level of effect of connectivity on species incidence was also correlated with life history traits. The distributions of emergent species were less affected by connectivity than those of submerged and floating-leafed types, reflecting that emergent plants can occur in habitat patches surrounding the lakes. The results indicate that metapopulation processes affect the distribution of freshwater plants, but that their relative importance vary widely among species.
3683527|Geographical trends in body size are commonly interpreted in the framework of Bergmann's rule, which states that larger body sizes are found at higher latitudes. Here we demonstrate a negative association of body size with latitude among over-wintering warblers of the genus Phylloscopus as well as within a single species (Phylloscopus trochiloides) we were able to study in depth. We examine the role of resources in determining body size distributions. In mid-winter in India there are more large prey at southern sites (occupied by large-bodied warblers) than at a northern site (occupied by small-bodied warblers). Phylloscopus trochiloides is a relatively large species. The timing of its autumn migration is correlated with the withdrawal of the monsoon through India and its appearance on the breeding grounds in spring is correlated with the appearance of relatively large prey. We suggest that prey size and abundance are the main determinants of the spatial distributions of Phylloscopus warblers in winter. Cross-species associations of body size with both time of arrival on the breeding grounds and migration distance may also largely reflect the spatial and temporal distribution of prey. Resources are likely to be more important in determining both strength and direction of latitudinal associations with body size than is currently appreciated, even in cases where Bergmann's rule is upheld.
3682911|Under laboratory conditions brood care behaviour, nest structure and weight of dung supply in brood chambers of the dung beetle Onthophagus vacca proved to depend on water content of the soil beneath the dung. The substrate in a bucket beneath the dung pat was dry sand (4% water content) or moist sand (8% water content). Emigrating beetles were trapped and counted at 12 h intervals. In a total of 109 replicates one pair was released on an artificial 1000 g dung pat. From 95 replicates in which brood chambers were built the following results were derived: 1) Breeding females and resident males which helped the female stayed longer in dung pats on dry sand than in those on moist sand. 2) Nest architecture was influenced by substrate moisture: length of main tunnels did not differ between nests in dry and moist sand, but total length of side tunnels was shorter in dry sand. 3) Numbers of brood chambers were equal in both substrate types, weight of the dung supplies was larger in dry sand. 4) Offspring size was not only influenced by dung provision in the brood chambers. Beetles emerging from chambers in dry sand were smaller than those emerging from moist sand even if the amount of dung supply was equal.
3682870|Several recent studies in landscape ecology have found periodicity in correlograms or semi-variograms calculated, for instance, from spatial data of soils, forests, or animal populations. Some of the studies interpreted this as an indication of regular or periodic landscape patterns. This interpretation is in disagreement with other studies that doubt whether such analysis is valid. The objective of our study was to explore the relationship between periodicity in landscape patterns and geostatistical models. We were especially interested in the validity of the assumption that periodicity in geostatistical models indicates periodicity in landscape pattern, and whether the former can characterize frequency and magnitude of the latter. We created maps containing various periodic spatial patterns, derived correlograms from these, and examined periodicity in the correlograms. We also created non-regular maps that we suspected would cause periodicity in correlograms. Our results demonstrate that a) various periodic spatial patterns produce periodicity in correlograms derived from them, b) the distance-lags at which correlograms peak correspond to the average distances between patch centers, c) periodicity is strongest when the diameter of patches is equal to the distance between patch edges, d) periodicity in omni-directional correlograms of complex spatial patterns (such as checkerboards) are combinations of several waves because inter-patch distances differ with direction; multiple directional correlograms can decompose such complexity, and e) periodicity in correlograms can also be caused when the number of patches in a study site is small. These results highlight that correlograms can be used to detect and describe regular spatial patterns. However, it is crucial to ensure that the assumption of stationarity is not violated, i.e., that the study area contains a sufficiently large number of patches to avoid incorrect conclusions.
3683113|The present research is based on previous surveys of primary succession in Danish seashore communities. Dispersal spectra for these communities are set up, using diaspore morphology as evidence for mode of dispersal. Dispersal spectra of species occurring in different zones and different successional phases are compared, and differences between the dispersal spectra of natural and man-made communities are investigated. The dispersal of diaspores to Danish seashore communities occurs at random because it is mostly achieved by abiotic agents or human beings. Wind is the prevalent dispersal vector, even though wind dispersal is not as common in Danish seashore communities as it is in open, disturbed, treeless vegetation throughout the world. Dispersal by water is most common among seashore plants that occur in the outer zones. As the succession progresses, it is found that plants with no special device or censer dispersal are more frequent in the intermediary stages, while dispersal by ants, adhesion, and in the digestive tract of animals increases later in the succession. No significant difference between dispersal spectra of the natural and man-made communities was found.
3683127| Decomposition of oak Quercus spp. logs (25-35 cm diameter, 3 m long) was compared among log substrates in Oregon, Minnesota, Kansas and North Carolina during the first five years on the ground. Decomposition of whole logs (weighted by substrate) averaged
30244699|Phylogenetic structure analysis is a novel way to address the relative importance of stochastic and deterministic processes governing species assemblages. Here we investigate the phylogenetic structure of the vegetation of inselbergs located in the African rain forest. Inselbergs combine strong ecological gradients at the local scale due to soil depth variation and insular properties at the regional scale. They are therefore ideal models to assess the influence of ecological sorting and dispersal limitation on the phylogenetic structure of plant communities. On 21 inselbergs separated by up to 200 km where five microhabitat-types were recognized, 311 vegetation plots were inventoried. We found that floristic similarity between plots depended on both microhabitat differentiation and spatial distance, while phylogenetic clustering (i.e. excess of phylogenetic similarity between species from a same plot) only appeared between plots from differentiated microhabitats and increased with ecological distance. Within a microhabitat-type, the absence of phylogenetic structure between inselbergs indicates that species turnover is probably due to dispersal limitation rather than to regional-scale variations in environmental factors. Hence, phylogenetic structure analysis can help disentangle the effects of ecological sorting and dispersal limitation on species assemblages. To estimate the time-scale of the processes generating the phylogenetic structure, we investigated how lineage similarity changes with increasing age in the phylogenetic tree. High lineage similarity levels between ecologically very differentiated plots were only reached at the proximity of the root of the phylogenetic tree. This was observed even when considering only plots sharing no species and indicates that phylogenetic niche conservatism has been important for generating the observed phylogenetic structure. Hence, ancient diversification exerts an impact on the assembly of current plant communities.
30244588|Knowledge of the ability of birds to track spatiotemporal variation in fruit distribution is essential for understanding plant-frugivore interactions. Arguably, although total fruit availability sets an upper limit to the number of birds that can exploit a habitat patch, not all species can equally distribute abundance according to variation in fruit resources. To explore this, we studied bird and fruit abundance in 1999-2005 in Mediterranean scrublands and woodlands of southern Spain. We analysed whether changes of fruit abundance in eight different sites during six winters could predict numerical changes of a set of frugivorous passerines of the area (blackcap Sylvia atricapilla, Sardinian warbler S. melanocephala, robin Erithacus rubecula, song thrush Turdusphilomelos and blackbird T merula). We also investigated if all frugivores together tracked fruits better than individual species, thereby supporting a shared use of resources. Results showed strong interspecific differences. Only the most abundant species (blackcaps and robins) tracked the spatial patterning of food despite strong differences in the use of space (vagrant and territorial, respectively). This suggests plastic behaviour of territorial robins, with individuals changing from strictly territorial to wandering, a flexibility that would favour between-site numerical arrangements according to food resources. Annual changes in bird numbers were independent of the availability of fruits, except for blackcaps, an abundant vagrant bird that tracked inter-winter changes in fruit abundance. The abundance of blackcaps fitted the spatiotemporal patterning of fruit resources better than the whole guild of frugivorous birds, inconsistent with the idea that these species track together the changing availability of fruit resources.
3683543|In metapopulations of butterflies inhabiting transient forest openings, the dynamic character of biotopes prevents unequivocal delimitation of habitat patches, complicating analyses of inter-patch dispersal. We analyse mobility of one such metapopulation, using mark-recapture data on an endangered butterfly, the scarce fritillary Euphydryas maturna, at its last site in the Czech Republic. The butterfly inhabits woodland clearings, its population numbered 190 individuals in 2002. We modelled movements in eight habitat patchworks delimited according to different criteria and superimposed over the forest, using the Virtual Migration model. Resulting mobility parameters were generally robust against patchwork definitions, the main distinction was between patchworks based on presence of adults and consisting of small patches and patchworks based on distributions of larval nests and consisting of large patches. Emigration constant decreased towards the latter, whereas males suffered higher migration mortality than females in the former. Patchworks delimited according to presence of adults performed better than patchworks based on distribution of larval nests. A comparison of our parameters with those found for the species in Finland showed that the Czech butterflies were more prone to leave individual patches and suffered higher migration mortality, which combined into considerably shorter survival. We conclude that transferring dispersal parameters among different regions and populations is more risky than using less suitable definitions of habitat patches within single region.
3683404| The relationship between the climate and budburst of the mountain birch was evaluated for two areas in subarctic (ca 69N) Fennoscandia; at Abisko, Swedish Lapland, and at Kevo, Finnish Lapland. Thermal time (TT, degree-day sums) to budburst was calculated for experimental conditions in the laboratory and for in situ observations of budburst. Two types of models predicting leaf emergence in situ were used: 1) TT to budburst for different threshold temperatures based on daily mean
3683796|Recent modelling work shows that the composition of local communities can be influenced by the configuration of the surrounding landscape, but many of these models assume that all community members display the same type of extinction-colonization dynamics. I use Aphodius dung beetles to test the hypothesis that interspecific differences in habitat selection and dispersal capacity may translate into differences in spatial population dynamics, even among closely related species coexisting on the same resource. If this is true, then groups of species with different characteristics would show different responses to landscape configuration. I first divided the area of Finland into a grid, and used collection records to describe regional variation in the Aphodius fauna of open cattle pastures. I then sampled dung beetles on 131 cattle farms, to examine whether the subset of species found on each farm was related to the density of pastures in the surrounding grid square. Finally, I used historical records to analyze changes in dung beetle communities during the last century, when there was great loss of pasture. Overall, I found no relationship between landscape characteristics and the total proportion of the regional species pool that was found on each farm. However, the distribution of species among guilds with different habitat specificity did relate to the configuration of the landscape, and the pattern was most pronounced in a specialists species with limited dispersal. Associations between community structure and landscape configuration were superimposed on two much larger and stronger patterns: a large-scale latitudinal gradient in regional species richness, and a decelerating gain of species to local communities with an increasing regional species pool. I conclude that ecological variation among community members is a crucial factor in the analysis of local community composition, and that local species richness should always be conditioned on regional richness.
3683811|Adult aquatic insects emerging from streams can subsidize riparian food webs, but little is known of the spatial extent of these subsidies. Stable isotope (<sup>15</sup> N) enrichment of aquatic insects, principally a species of stonefly (Plecoptera: Leuctridae), emerging from an upland stream was used to trace the subsidy from the stream ecosystem to riparian spiders (Lycosidae). The downstream profile of spider  <sup>15</sup> N correlated closely with that of adult stoneflies, indicating that they were deriving nutrition from aquatic sources. The contribution of adult aquatic insects to spider diets was determined using a two-source mixing model. Adult aquatic insects made up over 40% of spider diets adjacent to the stream, but <1% at 20 m from the stream. Enrichment of riparian spiders declined exponentially with distance from the stream channel. Aquaticterrestrial subsidies were spatially restricted, but locally important, to riparian lycosid spiders at the study site.
3682950|Changes in agricultural practice in eastern England have been shown to have had marked effects upon the winter population size of the woodpigeon Columba palumbus. This study examines whether changes in the breeding success of the woodpigeon have also occurred. Data were gathered between 1962 and 1983 on the breeding activities of woodpigeons within a wood near Newmarket in eastern England. The number of nests monitored each year varied between 16 and 122 with a mean of 45. Agricultural changes resulted in a steep decline in the winter population size in the late 1960's and the breeding population showed a similar fall. Before this decline, productivity was on average 2.8 young per pair, but afterwards it was only 1.8 young per pair. This drop in productivity resulted from greater egg predation; which increased steadily over the study period. Increased egg predation and variation in seasonal patterns of breeding behaviour are discussed in relation to likely predator numbers and changes in both agricultural and shooting practices. In the 1960's, overwinter starvation was the major limiting factor on the woodpigeon population, but after the mid-1970's low productivity has increasingly become the most important factor.
3683169| Quantitative information on large scale spatial patterns of biodiversity remains poor, especially for pelagic systems. In this paper the regional diversity of procellariiforms is mapped worldwide at the species level. These seabirds do not display a conventional latitudinal gradient of decreasing species richness towards high latitudes, but rather are most speciose between 37 and 59S in all ocean basins. Based on data for foraging ranges, areas with the highest species richness and the most species with smaller range sizes are all found in the vicinity of New Zealand and its sub-Antarctic islands. In contrast, data for breeding ranges show islands in the southern Indian and Atlantic oceans to have the highest number of breeding species, while these islands and New Zealand have the most species with smaller range sizes. No northern hemisphere regions are amongst the top ten grid cells for foraging and breeding species richness, although Hawaii has the highest species richness of procellariiforms north of the equator. Northern Baja California, Madeira, the Canary islands, and the west coast of South America are all important sites of narrow endemism in the northern hemisphere. High species richness and narrow endemism coincide with areas of significant longline fishing activity in the southern hemisphere. Near-minimum sets based on one and three representations demonstrate that if all procellariiform species are to be retained, large areas of the ocean and almost all breeding sites require conservation. 
30244695|Long-distance dispersal (LDD) of seeds enables alleles, individuals and species of plants to (re)colonize suitable but remote habitats. Banksia attenuata is a long-lived resprouting shrub restricted to dune crests in fire-prone sclerophyll shrublands of the Eneabba sandplain, southwestern Australia. Highly polymorphic microsatellite DNA genetic markers and population assignment tests were employed to identify LDD immigrants among 788 individuals from 27 stands of B. attenuata comprising a metapopulation. Of the 487 (61.8% of the total) individuals unambiguously assigned to a unique source population, 27 (5.5%) were identified as immigrants by assignment to a known population other than that from which they were sampled, while the remaining 460 were assigned to the population from which they were sampled. The distance between source and sink populations for these immigrants ranged from 0.2 to 2.6 km, averaging 1.4 km, and broadly trending in the direction of seasonal winds. These results suggest that B. attenuata has similar long-distance seed dispersal properties as its co-occurring shorter-lived and fire-sensitive congener, B. hookeriana, despite fewer, larger and less mobile seeds. The frequency and distance of LDD for seeds observed in both species (5.5-6.8%) helps explain the persistence of populations on these geographically isolated dunes, where they are subject to local extinction from recurrent fire and severe summer drought, and will remain important under predicted climate change conditions. Analysis also revealed that species richness of the functional group to which B. attenuata belongs was positively correlated with the number of immigrants identified per dune, and such correlation was likely driven by environmental properties of the dunes, particularly water availability.
30244616|The timing of settlement decisions likely influences the quality of breeding site choices. This is particularly the case in migratory birds, because the conditions that enhance breeding success are often not apparent upon arrival after migration. A strategy that addresses this problem is to adjust settlement decisions when reliable information becomes available. We used a new indirect method - dynamic site occupancy modeling - to estimate apparent movement of black-throated blue warblers Dendroica caerulescens among sites within a breeding season. Because individuals should disperse to sites that maximize their fitness, we hypothesized that warblers would move up a habitat quality gradient when opportunities arose. For our study species, that would involve moving into sites with greater shrub density and at higher elevation within northern hardwoods forest, as these two features are positively correlated with reproduction and apparent survival in this species. Although the probability of site occupancy in our study landscape remained consistent throughout the breeding season (range: 0.66-0.69), occupancy models revealed substantial support for apparent movement of individuals within the breeding season. The mean probability of emigration from a point count site was 0.21 (0.03 SE), and the mean probability of immigration to a site not previously occupied was 0.51 (0.05 SE). The spatial distribution of this movement was a function of habitat quality. A portion of the black-throated blue warbler population appears to arrive on the breeding grounds and settle initially in sub-optimal habitat, moving subsequently into high quality densely shrubbed habitat at higher elevations. This modeling approach provides a new means to test hypotheses about habitat selection and movement by using presence-non-detection data.
3682810| Water chemistry and community assemblages of surface and interstitial invertebrates were studied at seven sites on the French Rivers Rhne and Ain at surface and at 50 cm depth into the bed sediments. Chemical factors allowed differentiation of surface water from groundwater and detection of water exchanges defining clear downwelling and upwelling zones. At some sites, interstitial water showed both surface and phreatic conditions, characterizing the underflows of the Rhne or of the Ain. In the interstitial area, most taxa showed no significant correlations with water chemistry. Some epigean and hypogean fauna showed correlations with certain factors. Clear relationships appeared between the water exchanges and the distribution of surface and interstitial faunas. In interstitial samples, epigean and some hypogean species characterized the downwelling zones while others seemed to be strictly linked to the upwelling zones. In surface samples, the presence of hypogean species was associated with regions of groundwater upwelling. 
20696295|Phenological traits may influence invasion success via effects on invasiveness of the colonizing species and invasibility of the receiving ecosystems. Many species exhibit substantial fine-scaled spatial variation in phenology and interannual differences in phenological timing in response to environmental variation. Yet describing and understanding this variation is limited by the availability of appropriate spatial and temporal datasets. Remote sensing provides such datasets, but has primarily been used to monitor broad-scale phenological patterns at coarse resolutions, necessarily missing fine spatial detail and intraspecies variation. We used hyperspectral remote sensing to characterize the spatial and temporal phenological variation of the invasive species Lepidium latifolium (perennial pepperweed) at two sites in California's San Francisco Bay/SacramentoSan Joaquin River Delta. Considerable phenological variation was detected: L. latifolium was simultaneously present in vegetative, early flowering, peak flowering, fruiting, and senescent stages in late June; the relative dominance and distribution of these stages varied interannually. Environmental determinants of phenology were investigated with variables derived from the hyperspectral image data, from a high resolution LiDAR (light detection and ranging) digital elevation model (DEM), and from local precipitation and streamflow data. Lepidium latifolium phenology was found to track water availability, and may also be influenced by intraspecific competition and edaphic stress. Lepidium latifolium has a unique phenology (summer flowering) relative to the communities it invades, which may allow invasion of an empty niche. Furthermore, many habitats are invaded by L. latifolium, which occurs in locally appropriate phenologies under the different environmental conditions. The environmental responsiveness of L. latifolium phenology may mediate the wide breadth of invasible habitats.
3683322|A recent hypothesis suggested that migration patterns in waders and other birds could be shaped by the distribution of parasites and diseases. This hypothesis assumes a reduced exposure to parasites in species living in saline habitats. To test this assumption, the number of species of haematozoa and rates of infection reported for bird species living in fresh and salt-water habitats were compared. Species living in more saline habitats had fewer haematozoic parasite species than freshwater birds. Relative frequency of infection was also lower in saltwater species. Neither phylogeny nor the number of individuals examined for blood parasites in each species explained these differences. Thus, there is indeed evidence that birds living in saline habitats have a reduced risk of being parasitized by haematozoa, probably due to a reduced abundance of the invertebrate vectors.
3682766| The temporal overlap between seasonal distribution of adults of 14 congeneric dung beetle species (Aphodius spp.) was determined during one year, based on 11122 captures. The mean seasonal distribution of adults (mean of the sampling dates weighted by the abundance value) was analyzed to elucidate deviations from ramdomness. In addition, the effect of the shape of seasonal distribution of adults was investigated. In both analyses randomization methods were used. A clear trend exists maximizing the temporal displacement between middle points of chronologically consecutive species: newly emerging species appear every 26  16 days. This trend minimizes the number of species pairs with no or very little temporal overlap. In contrast, the mean temporal overlap of the whole guild seems unaffected, with some species pairs showing a large temporal overlap. Whether the observed pattern can be attributed to interspecific competition must be addresed experimentally. 
3682918|The effects of vegetation cover on the abundance and species richness of dung beetles (Aphodiidae) were examined in three altitudinal zones: lowland (520-600 m), midaltitude (950-963 m) and highland (1230-1275 m). Pitfall traps baited with fresh cattle dung were placed in three vegetation types at each altitudinal zone: forest, heathland and pasture. Species richness was lower in forests than in the other vegetation types. The total abundance of beetles also varied with vegetation type, but the effect was dependent on altitude. Number of individuals was higher in pasture at highlands and in heathland and forest at mid-altitude and lowlands. An altitudinal dependence of distribution of individuals between vegetation types was also found for the more abundant species in the study area. These results could be explained if the local distribution of individuals between vegetation types was determined by microclimatic factors, mainly temperature. Differences in altitude between sites are associated with temperature changes, determining the habitat selection of species at each altitude.
3683047|In a temperate zone population of the grasshopper Caledia captiva (Fabricius) (Orthoptera: Acrididae), facultative embryonic diapause provided the basis for a number of aspects of life cycle flexibility. Most offspring produced during the summer entered diapause, destined to overwinter as embryos and hatch in the spring, but a small percentage developed directly to hatching, overwintered as nymphs and reproduced in the spring. The two different developmental pathways often occurred among the offspring of the same mother, and could represent a bet-hedging adaptation. Offspring of the small overwintering generation were influenced by a maternal effect which greatly diminished their likelihood of entering diapause. This is an adaptation to prevent an inappropriate developmental delay that would negate the fitness advantage of an extra generation. Offspring produced in the autumn failed to develop to the stage at which diapause intervenes before winter and overwintered at a pre-diapause stage. They did not enter diapause when development resumed in the spring. Facultative diapause in this case also prevented an inappropriate developmental delay in the spring, and provided females with the option of reproducing toward the end of the growing season. Life cycle flexibility appears to have evolved to exploit a climate with a short growing season but mild winter.
3683107|We examined the occurrence of vertically via host seeds transmitted endophyte infections of 14 grass species in natural populations in Finland and totally 97 agricultural cultivars of 13 grass species. Although endophyte infections were widespread in native grass species, overall endophyte occurrence and frequencies were lower than published reports have suggested. In natural populations, 10 out of 14 grass species examined harbor fungal endophytes in their seeds. The highest species-specific mean incidences of endophyte infected plants in infected populations were found in Agrostis capillaris, Festuca arundinacea, F. ovina, F. pratensis, F. rubra and Phleum pratense (67%, 98%, 29%, 42%, 32% and 33%, respectively). Mean incidences were <20% in Dactylis glomerata, Deschampsia flexuosa, D. cespitosa and Elymus repens, and no infections were detected in Calamagrostis lapponica, C. epigejos, Alopecurus pratensis and Phalaris arundinacea. However, we detected a very high variation in infection incidences among natural populations and a large proportion of populations was, indeed, endophyte-free. This supports the ideas that 1) endophytic fungi provide selective advantage of infected grasses to their uninfected conspecifics in some habitats, and/or 2) fungi are occasionally transmitted horizontally by spores. In grass cultivars, endophyte infected seeds were detected only in F. pratensis and Lolium perenne, and endophyte frequencies were either very high or very low. Cultivars of 11 other grass species were endophyte-free.
3682869|Differences in feeding patterns of the African elephant were examined by sex and age during the dry season in a dystrophic savanna-woodland ecosystem in northern Botswana. Adult males had the least diverse diet in terms of woody plant species, but they consumed more plant parts than family units. The diameter of stems of food plants broken or bitten off was also greater for adult males than for females and subadult males. Adult males spent more time foraging on each woody plant than did females. The number of woody plant species and individuals present were higher at feeding sites of family units than at feeding sites of adult males, indicating that family units positioned themselves at feeding sites with higher species diversity than those of males. We argue that the most likely explanation for these differences is related to the pronounced sexual size dimorphism exhibited by elephants, resulting in sex differences in browsing patterns due to the allometric relationships that govern the tolerance of herbivores for variation in diet quality. From our results this Body Size Hypothesis is accepted rather than the alternative Scramble Competition Hypothesis, which predicts that adult male elephants consume lower quality browse because they are displaced from preferred browse as an outcome of scramble competition with adult females and their offspring. If the feeding patterns of adult male elephants were affected by intersexual scramble competition, we would expect adult males to browse at a higher level in the canopy than the smaller-bodied females and their offspring. No evidence was found for this, although adult females were found to browse at a higher level in the canopy when feeding in close proximity to subadults and juveniles than when feeding alone. Sex differences in elephant browsing patterns are, we propose, of relevance to understanding and managing elephant impacts on African woodlands.
3683538|While climatic limitations are widely recognized as primary factors determining the distributions of many species, the physiological link between climate and species' persistence is poorly understood. The Virginia opossum Didelphis virginiana is a species for which winter energetics have been evaluated and a northern geographical limit has been hypothesized. Expansion of opossum populations beyond this limit, however, suggests that a previous winter energetics model requires modification. I update this energetics model by incorporating random foraging success to estimate the probability of opossum survival under varying winter temperature regimes. Estimation of opossum "success" for winters in Amherst, Massachusetts, since 1926 showed that juvenile females, the key breeding component of the population, would survive at a rate high enough to maintain a stable population in only 4 of the 77 yr. The model correctly predicted the fate of 13 of 14 opossums monitored in the Amherst area during the winters of 2000-2003. The current energetics model does not correctly predict autumn weight gain, but it does accurately estimate opossum winter survival. However, the model predicts that opossums should be winter-limited in areas such as Amherst, Massachusetts, where in fact they are well established. This discrepancy may be explained in three ways: weather station data do not adequately reflect available microclimates, opossums show high levels of flexibility in cold-weather foraging behavior, and most likely, humans provide food and shelter that mitigate the effect of winter.
30244630|Landscape genetics, an emerging field integrating landscape ecology and population genetics, has great potential to influence our understanding of habitat connectivity and distribution of organisms. Whereas typical population genetics studies summarize gene flow as pairwise measures between sampling localities, landscape characteristics that influence population genetic connectivity are often continuously distributed in space. Thus, there are currently gaps in both the ability to analyze genotypic data in a continuous spatial context and our knowledge of expected of landscape genetic structure under varying conditions. We present a framework for generating continuous "genetic surfaces", evaluate their statistical properties, and quantify statistical behavior of landscape genetic structure in a simple landscape. We simulated microsatellite genotypes under varying parameters (time since vicariance, migration, effective population size) and used ancestry (q) values from STRUCTURE to interpolate a genetic surface. Using a spatially adjusted Pearson's correlation coefficient to test the significance of landscape variable(s) on genetic structure we were able to detect landscape genetic structure on a contemporary time scale ( 5 generations post vicariance, migration probability 0.10) even when population differentiation was minimal ( $F_{ST} \geqslant 20.00015$ ). We show that genetic variation can be significantly correlated with geographic distance even when genetic structure is due to landscape variable(s), demonstrating the importance of testing landscape influence on genetic structure. Finally, we apply genetic surfacing to analyze an empirical dataset of black bears from northern Idaho USA. We find black bear genetic variation is a function of distance (autocorrelation) and habitat patch (spatial dependency), consistent with previous results indicating genetic variation was influenced by landscape by resistance. These results suggest genetic surfaces can be used to test competing hypotheses of the influence of landscape characteristics on genetic structure without delineation of categorical groups.
3683315|Ecologists need not despair of discovering the mechanisms that lead to large scale patterns. The search for process at higher scales has already led to enhanced confidence in the patterns and to improvements in their description. For example, species-area relationships turn out to form not one, but three patterns. Each is controlled by gain-loss dynamics at its own scale. At the macroscale, origination and global extinction reign. At the archipelagic scale, immigration and island extinction determine the results. At the local scale, metapopulation processes do. The three scales exhibit species-area curves with systematically different slopes in logarithmic space. We use the three scales of species-area to illuminate the relationship between local and regional diversity. Algebra shows that the latter pattern is an echo of species-area curves, and that those echoes ought to be nearly linear. So, we call the relationship of local and regional diversity, the Echo pattern. Ecology has long known that species-area curves within a region reflect the accumulation of habitat variety. Thus, their connection to Echo patterns argues against concluding that local diversity has little or nothing to do with population interactions. To obtain a pure Echo pattern, one should draw data from independent regions rather than separate islands. The independence allows natural selection to adjust the fundamental niches of species to diversity. Theory suggests that higher diversity should shrink niches, allowing the coexistence of more species locally. Hence, independence should tend to produce the straightest Echoes. However, archipelagic species-area curves predict that even when different islands are used as the regions, the Echoes should show only very gentle curvatures. Flouting theory, some archipelagic Echoes approach an asymptote as regional diversity increases. These must have logarithmic slopes that increase with regional pool size. We do not understand why.
3683635|Estimation of species richness of local communities has become an important topic in community ecology and monitoring. Investigators can seldom enumerate all the species present in the area of interest during sampling sessions. If the location of interest is sampled repeatedly within a short time period, the number of new species recorded is typically largest in the initial sample and decreases as sampling proceeds, but new species may be detected if sampling sessions are added. The question is how to estimate the total number of species. The data collected by sampling the area of interest repeatedly can be used to build species accumulation curves: the cumulative number of species recorded as a function of the number of sampling sessions (which we refer to as "species accumulation data"). A classic approach used to compute total species richness is to fit curves to the data on species accumulation with sampling effort. This approach does not rest on direct estimation of the probability of detecting species during sampling sessions and has no underlying basis regarding the sampling process that gave rise to the data. Here we recommend a probabilistic, nonparametric estimator for species richness for use with species accumulation data. We use estimators of population size that were developed for capture-recapture data, but that can be used to estimate the size of species assemblages using species accumulation data. Models of detection probability account for the underlying sampling process. They permit variation in detection probability among species. We illustrate this approach using data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey (BBS). We describe other situations where species accumulation data are collected under different designs (e.g., over longer periods of time, or over spatial replicates) and that lend themselves to of use capture-recapture models for estimating the size of the community of interest. We discuss the assumptions and interpretations corresponding to each situation.
20696283|It is widely acknowledged that species respond to climate change by range shifts. Robust predictions of such changes in species' distributions are pivotal for conservation planning and policy making, and are thus major challenges in ecological research. Statistical species distribution models (SDMs) have been widely applied in this context, though they remain subject to criticism as they implicitly assume equilibrium, and incorporate neither dispersal, demographic processes nor biotic interactions explicitly. In this study, the effects of transient dynamics and ecological properties and processes on the prediction accuracy of SDMs for climate change projections were tested. A spatially explicit multi-species dynamic population model was built, incorporating species-specific and interspecific ecological processes, environmental stochasticity and climate change. Species distributions were sampled in different scenarios, and SDMs were estimated by applying generalised linear models (GLMs) and boosted regression trees (BRTs). Resulting model performances were related to prevailing ecological processes and temporal dynamics. SDM performance varied for different range dynamics. Prediction accuracies decreased when abrupt range shifts occurred as species were outpaced by the rate of climate change, and increased again when a new equilibrium situation was realised. When ranges contracted, prediction accuracies increased as the absences were predicted well. Far-dispersing species were faster in tracking climate change, and were predicted more accurately by SDMs than short-dispersing species. BRTs mostly outperformed GLMs. The presence of a predator, and the inclusion of its incidence as an environmental predictor, made BRTs and GLMs perform similarly. Results are discussed in light of other studies dealing with effects of ecological traits and processes on SDM performance. Perspectives are given on further advancements of SDMs and for possible interfaces with more mechanistic approaches in order to improve predictions under environmental change.
3683841|It is an open question whether the invading tree species Acer platanoides is invading and displacing native trees within pre-existing forest stands, or merely preferentially occupying new stands of secondary forest growth at the edges of existing forests. Several threads of spatial pattern analyses were used to assess the invasibility of A. platanoides, and to link the invasion to the structure of a plant community in the deciduous forest of the northeastern United States. The analyses were based on maps of a contiguous 100  50 m area along an A. platanoides infestation gradient. The distribution of A. platanoides was highly aggregated and the population importance value increased from 28.1 to 38.5% according to mortality estimated from standing dead trees, while the distribution of native tree species was close to random and importance value of Quercus spp. decreased from 33.4 to 26.9% over time. The size distributions of each tree species across distance indicated that A. platanoides was progressively invading the interior of the forest while the native species (including A. rubrum) were not spreading back towards the A. platanoides monospecific patch. The null hypothesis of no invasibility was rejected based on quantile regressions. There were negative correlations between A. platanoides density and the densities of native species in different functional groups, and negative correlation of A. platanoides density and the species diversity in forest understory. The null hypothesis that A. platanoides invasion did not suppress native trees or understory was rejected based on Dutilleul's modified t-test for correlation, consistent with experimental results in the same study site. The combination of multiple spatial analyses of static data can be used to infer historical dynamical processes that shape a plant community structure. The concept of "envelop effects" was discussed and further developed.
3683012|When analysing temporal variation monthly mean abundances of zooplankton sampled at a coastal station in the northern Baltic Sea between 1976 and 1988 showed the lowest between-year variation in the summers. The coefficients of variation were estimated at 50% for rotifers in June, 70% for cladocerans in August and between 30 and 50% for different copepodite stages in August. Moreover, in the summers, all dominating zooplankton groups were abundant. Estimates of yearly biomass or production of zooplankton must, however, be based on frequent sampling during the whole year because of large differences between months in zooplankton composition and abundance. In 1989, spatial variation was analyzed by sampling zooplankton on three occasions along a 9.8 km transect with 15 stations, 700 m apart. All taxonomic/life-stage groupings of zooplankton were heterogeneously distributed. Geostatistical analysis did not give a definite answer to what the minimum distance between stations should be to obtain independent samples but indicated that 700 to 1400 m would be sufficient in most cases. For most of the zooplankton groupings, the coefficients of variation in the sampled area were estimated at 20-40% on all sampling occasions.
3683529|I compared dung beetle communities and assessed some of their functional effects (dung removal, seed burial, seedling establishment) in continuous forest with those in 1-ha and 10-ha forest fragments in Central Amazonia. I followed the fate of seeds until seedling establishment for three native tree species, using clean seeds and seeds surrounded by dung. The 1-ha fragments had half the number of dung beetle species captured in continuous forest and in 10-ha fragments. The continuous forest sites and the 1-ha fragments had similar number of individuals, but in the 10-ha fragments dung beetles were twice as abundant. Mean beetle size increased with increasing forest area. Dung removal and seed burial rates were higher in continuous forest than in forest fragments. Seed predation rates were higher in the forest fragments. In all sites, the proportion of seedlings established from seeds surrounded by dung vs clean seeds was the same, and it was the same in continuous forest vs fragments. When comparing seeds that remained on the forest floor with seeds buried by dung beetles, a higher percentage of seedlings established from the latter. Conservation programs that aim to maintain the regeneration ability of forest fragments must incorporate all the important components involved in seedling establishment; in Central Amazonia these include dung beetles as secondary dispersers. It is important that studies start measuring directly not only the first-order effects of forest fragmentation on species, but also the higher-order functional effects.
30244702|In numerous iteroparous species, mean fecundity increases with age. Such improvement has been explained by: a) progressive removal of inferior breeders from the breeding population (selection-hypothesis); b) delayed breeding of higher-quality phenotypes (delayed-breeder-hypothesis); c) longitudinal enhancement of skills associated with age per se (age-hypothesis); d) progressive improvement in the capability to conduct specific tasks facilitated by accumulated experience (breeding-experience-hypothesis); and e) increasing parental investment promoted by declining residual reproductive values (restraint-hypothesis). To date, there have been few comprehensive tests of these hypotheses. Here, we provide such a study using a long-term dataset on a long-lived raptor, the black kite Milvus migrans (maximum lifespan 23 yr). Kites delayed breeding for 1-7 yr and all measures of breeding performance increased linearly or quadratically up to 11 yr of age. There was no support for the delayed-breeder-hypothesis: superior phenotypes did not delay breeding longer. Superior breeders were retained longer in the breeding population, consistent with the selection-hypothesis. All measures of breeding performance increased longitudinally within individuals, supporting the age-hypothesis, while some of them increased with accumulated previous experience, supporting the breeding-experience-hypothesis. Some analyses suggested the existence of trade-offs between reproduction in the early years of life and subsequent survival, partially supporting the restraint-hypothesis. The pattern of age-related improvements in breeding rates observed at the population-level could be ascribed to the combined effect of the progressive removal of inferior phenotypes from the breeding population and the individual-level lack of specific skills which are progressively acquired with time and experience. It was also compatible with a longitudinal increase in reproductive investment. Results from previous studies suggest that different mechanisms may operate in different species and that age-related improvements in reproduction may be frequently promoted by the complex interplay between longitudinal improvements and changes in the relative frequency of productive phenotypes in the breeding population.
3683343|Numerical variation of the breeding bird community, its ecological subunits (guilds) and the 26 most numerous constituent species is analysed over 20 yr period (1975-1994), and related to variation in supply of defoliating caterpillars, tree seed crop, numbers of rodents and winter weather. Maximum rates of increase between two years were less than twofold in most species. Changes in numbers of individual species/guilds were either independent of each other or in parallel. The pattern of numerical variation was not related to taxonomic affinities, type of nest site, food types, or migratory habits. Whole bird community and 13 of 26 species showed long-term increasing trends, only three species declined. Numbers remained basically stable during the first decade, increases were concentrated to the second decade. Except tropical migrants (no long-term change) other migratory groups increased in numbers. None of the measured environmental variables showed parallel trends, which could account for the recorded trends. Long-term trends and year-to-year fluctuations were not correlated. The short-term variation in bird numbers was to some extent correlated with (in decreasing order of importance) abundance of defoliating caterpillars, winter severity, and changes in rodent numbers. No correlation with tree seed crop was found. Overall, a substantial part of the variation in breeding bird numbers could not be explained by that set of factors. This could be due to birds using wider spectrum of food sources than those measured, varying predator pressure and/or strong influences from outside the forest, swamping local relationships.
30244690|Increased awareness of spatiotemporal variation in species interactions has motivated the study of temporally-resolved food web dynamics at the landscape level. Empiricists have focused attention on cross-habitat flows of materials, nutrients, and prey, largely ignoring the movement of predators between habitats that differ in productivity (and how predators integrate pulses in resource availability over time). We set out to study seasonal variation in food web interactions between mammalian carnivores and their rodent prey along a riparian-upland gradient in semi-arid southeastern Arizona which features both spatial and temporal heterogeneity in resource availability. Specifically, we tested whether mammalian carnivores spill over from productive, near-river habitats into adjacent, desert-scrub habitats; and if they do, to document the effects of this spillover on rodent communities. Furthermore, we examined seasonal variation in top-down effects by measuring changes in carnivore diet and distribution patterns and rodent populations over time. The results indicate that carnivores track seasonally-abundant resources across the landscape, varying both their diet and movement patterns. In turn, desert-scrub rodent population dynamics track seasonal shifts in carnivore habitat use but not resource availability, suggesting that predation plays a role in structuring rodent communities along the San Pedro River. Further evidence comes from data on rodent community composition, which differs between desert-scrub habitats near and far from the river, despite similarities in resource availability. Our data also suggest that seasonal omnivory helps predators survive lean times, increasing their effects on prey populations. Taken together, these results underscore the importance of spatiotemporal variation in species interactions, highlighting the complexity of natural systems and the need for further detailed studies of food web dynamics.
3683223| We analyzed mineral lick soils and non-mineral lick soils from the Serengeti National Park, the Konza Prairie, and Yellowstone National Park. The concentrations of 14 different elements considered important for ungulate nutrition were analyzed to determine the relative importance of Na vs other elements in attracting animals to lick areas. Only Na was consistently higher in the mineral lick soils of the three ecosystems. Mean Na concentrations were c. 20 greater in Serengeti licks, 10 greater in Konza licks and 3 greater in Yellowstone licks compared to the respective non-lick soils. Despite the numerous elements analyzed for this survey, our results suggest that Na is the primary element initiates mineral lick use in these widely separated ecosystems. The widespread distribution of Na-deficient forage likely explains the importance of Na in most mineral licks. 
3683866|This study examined the selection of habitat by Ningaui yvonneae, a small, nocturnal insectivorous marsupial of semi-arid regions of southern Australia. In addition to identifying habitat preferences, the study was concerned with identifying how habitats were used, and for what purpose they were valued. Triodia irritans (hummock grass) was the most preferred habitat component overall. However, other habitat components were found to be of equal or greater preference during certain seasons and for certain behaviours. The importance of considering behaviour in studies of habitat selection was discussed. Habitat selection by N. yvonneae appeared to be influenced by predation risk and energetic reward. The selection for Triodia is thought to be due to its provision of protection and foraging opportunities. However, leaf litter was preferred over Triodia for foraging, possibly because it offered greater energetic returns. To minimise predation risk while in leaf litter, ningauis remained close to Triodia and moved larger prey items to the edge of Triodia for consumption.
3683829|Since prehistoric times, natural and man made fires have been important factors of natural disturbance in many forest ecosystems, like those on the southern slopes of the Alps. Their effect on scarce, endangered or stenotopic species and on the diversity of invertebrate species assemblages which depend on a mosaic of successional habitat stages, is controversially discussed. In southern Switzerland, in a region affected by regular winter fires, we investigated the effect of the fire frequency on a large spectrum of taxonomic groups. We focussed on total biodiversity, taxonomic groups specific to certain habitat types, and on scarce and endangered species. Overall species richness was significantly higher in plots with repeated fires than in the unburnt control sites. Plots with only one fire in the last 30 yr harboured intermediate species numbers. Fire frequency had a significantly positive effect on species richness of the guilds of interior forest species and forest edge specialists. Species of open landscape, open forests and interior forests were not influenced by fire frequency. A positive effect of fire on species richness was observed for ground beetles (Carabidae), hoverflies (Syrphidae), bees and wasps (Hymenoptera aculeata, without Formicidae), and spiders (Araneae). True bugs (Heteroptera), lacewings (Neuroptera) and the saproxylic beetle families Cerambycidae, Buprestidae and Lucanidae showed positive trends, but no statistically significant effects of fire on species numbers or/and abundances. Negative effects of fire on species numbers or/and abundances were found only for isopods and weevils (Curculionidae). A compromise for forest management is suggested, which considers the risk of damage by fire to people and goods, while avoiding the risk of damage to biodiversity by imitating the effects of sporadic fires and providing a mosaic forest with open gaps of different successional stages.
3683628|We investigated the potential role of a nitrogen-fixing legume in facilitating invasion by an alien grass, Pennisetum setaceum (fountain grass) into native Heteropogon contortus grasslands in Hawai'i. Both grasses are C
3683688|Cormorant impact upon natural fish populations has long been debated but little studied because of the requirements of sound data that are often hard to fill. In this study I have monitored fish community composition/abundance before and after a cormorant colony was established in a high productive lake, Ymsen, of south-central Sweden. Data on fish abundance before cormorant establishment enabled me to control for changes in fish densities prior to cormorant colonisation. To control for possible changes in fish populations caused by factors other than cormorant predation (i.e. large-scale regional changes due to climate) data were compared with a control lake, Garnsviken, with no cormorants. Since Lake Ymsen also harbour an important commercial fishery, cormorant impact upon fishery yields was evaluated. The most important fish species in the diet of the cormorants were ruffe (75% by number), roach (11%) and perch (10%). Except for perch, commercially important fish made up a very small fraction of the cormorant diet. Eel, the most important fish for the fishery, was absent in the cormorant diet, pikeperch constituted 0.2% and pike 1.5%. Estimated fish outtake by the cormorants was 5
3682865|We investigated intraspecific differences in evening emergence time of northern bats Eptesicus nilssonii, greater horseshoe bats Rhinolophus ferrumequinum and lesser horseshoe bats R. hipposideros. Significant differences in emergence time were associated with presumed variation in predation risk, related to light intensity, and energetic benefits of early emergence, caused by differences in age, reproductive state (energetic demands), and body condition. Females of both species emerged progressively later as pregnancy advanced, perhaps because of decreased flight performance, and earlier as lactation proceeded, probably because of increased energy demands and low reserves. Bats under energetic stress, due to persistent low ambient temperatures during pregnancy, or when body reserves were low, emerged relatively early, and hence appeared to take higher risks, than other bats. Young bats emerged much later than the adults at first, but progressively earlier as their flight skills improved. Lesser horseshoe bats emerged later at exposed roost exits than in more protected situations. The results largely corroborate the hypothesis that emergence time, and therefore feeding performance, of insectivorous bats is constrained at bright light conditions, possibly by predation risk (from birds), and modified by energetic considerations.
20696284|Conceptualising landscapes as a mosaic of discrete habitat patches is fundamental to landscape ecology, metapopulation theory and conservation biology. An emerging question in ecology is: when is the discrete patch model more appropriate than alternative and conceptually appealing models such as the continuum model? There is limited empirical testing of the utility of alternative landscape models compared to the discrete patch model for a range of species. In this paper, we constructed three alternative sets of models for testing the effect of landscape structure on diversity and abundance of a suite of woodland birds in a savanna landscape of northern Australia: the null model (only site-scale habitat variables, landscape context not important), the continuum model, and the discrete patch model. We utilised high-spatial resolution satellite images to quantify spatial gradients in tree cover density (the continuum model), and to then aggregate the fine-scale heterogeneity in tree cover into discrete patches of trees, with grass cover forming the "matrix" (the discrete patch-model). We then evaluated the relative importance of the alternative models using generalised linear models and an information theoretic approach. We found that the importance of the models varied among species, with no single model dominant. Species that move between open grassy areas and woody shelter responded well to the continuum model, reflecting the importance of gradients in density of forage (grasses) and cover (trees), while the discrete model performed best for species that forage in all vegetation strata, and nest predominantly in dense woody vegetation. This finding supports a pluralistic approach, highlighting the need for adopting and testing more than one landscape model in savanna landscapes, and in other landscapes that do not have a well defined patch structure.
3683070|The Samoan fruit bat Pteropus samoensis Peale, an endemic flying fox that inhabits the Samoan archipelago, prefers to forage on native fruit species. This species has recently been subjected to extreme population threats including hunting and severe storms, as well as large-scale habitat degradation. If habitat destruction continues at its present rate, P. samoensis may be forced to forage more within an agricultural matrix. In this study, we analyzed sixteen species of native fruits and four species of agricultural fruits for five organic components and eight minerals to test whether native fruits provided a higher quality diet or more varied diet than agricultural fruits. Within native fruits, we also focused on four species of figs, because these fruits are often considered an important food item for tropical frugivores. Overall, native fruits provided more variation and had higher average values for several nutrients than agricultural fruits. Native fruits were especially high in biologically important minerals (calcium, iron, and sodium), and provided up to 5 times more calcium, 10.5 times more iron, and 8 times more sodium than agricultural fruits. Figs were found to be an especially rich source of many nutrients, particularly for calcium. Thus, P. samoensis, a sequential specialist, may be better able to adjust its diet to obtain higher levels of minerals when consuming a variety of native fruits than when restricted to the consumption of only agricultural fruits. These findings suggest a need to preserve native habitat and to create parks to sustain the long term health and viability of P. samoensis.
3683320|Ecological gradients have intrigued ecologists for many years. In southern California the Deep Canyon Transect spans a range of habitats and elevations from Lower Sonoran Desert sand dunes and creosote scrub to Upper Transition coniferous forest, where relict species typical of the Sierra Nevada are found. I sampled a 1050 m elevational range in this transect to evaluate the ecological distributions of small mammals and to better characterize community structure. Results complement and substantially extend a previous study of this fauna, and provide insights into the habitat associations of species in this complex fauna. Assemblage structure changed greatly between summer and winter, largely due to reduced presence of pocket mice Chaetodipus in winter. Additionally, the distribution of abundance and species richness was different than reported earlier, suggesting that patterns across this gradient may be temporally variable, and strongly influenced by local dynamics. Most taxa exhibited significantly nonrandom use of a large number of habitat variables but this was not a simple consequence of the elevational gradient. A mid-elevation bulge in species richness was indicated, but likely is not a consequence of mass effects since a number of animals captured in intermediate regions were reproductively active.
3683507|Historical data on two plant-herbivore interactions from southern Norway were used to test the hypothesis that the degree of herbivore outbreaks in post-mast years is negatively related to summer temperatures in the mast year, because plants are more depressed after a high seed production if temperatures and thus the photosynthetic activity is low. The plant species were the sessile oak Quercus petraea and the bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus. For the former species post-mast years were identified from reports given by the local forest authorites for the period 1930-48, and from acorn export curves for the period 1949-98. For the latter species, post-mast years were identified mainly from bilberry export curves for the period 1920-31, from game reports for the period 1932-78, and from diary notes for the period 1979-87. The herbivore species used were the green oak leaf roller moth Tortrix viridana and the capercaillie Tetrao urogallus. Eight moth outbreaks on oak forests were reported by the forest authorities in the period 1930-98, and they all started in a post-mast year of the sessile oak. There were however also eleven post-mast years without moth outbreaks. According to game reports, observations and autumn counts, all increases in the autumn population size of capercaillie during 1920-88 occurred in or after a year with high bilberry production. Among 18 post-mast years, there were seven with strong increase, seven with slight or moderate increase, and four with no increase. For both herbivore species, post-mast years with marked population increases had significantly lower summer temperatures in the preceding (mast) year than had post-mast years with no or slight increases. For moth populations there also was a negative effect of high temperatures in April, possibly because moth eggs tend to hatch too early relative to budburst if spring temperatures are high. For the capercaillie, high amount of precipitation in June-July seemed to have some negative impact on the autumn population sizes, as also found in previous studies.
3683810|Forest successional trajectories covering the last 2000 yr from a mixed deciduous forest in Denmark show a gradual shift in dominance from Tilia cordata to Fagus sylvatica and a recent increase in total forest basal area since direct management ceased in 1948. The successions are reconstructed by combining a fifty-year record of direct tree observations with local pollen diagrams from Draved Forest, Denmark. Five of the seven successions record a heathland phase of Viking Age dating from 830 AD. The anthropogenic influence is considerable throughout the period of study even though Draved contains some of the most pristine forest stands in Denmark. Anthropogenic influence including feeling masks the underlying natural dynamics, with the least disturbed sites showing the smallest compositional change. Some effects of former management, such as loss of Tilia cordata dominance, are irreversible. Artificial disturbance, particularly drainage, has accelerated and amplified the shift towards Fagus dominance that would have occurred on a smaller scale and at a slower rate in the absence of human intervention.
3682820|During the last century the black woodpecker Drycopus martius has expanded its range in central and western Europe. Habitat changes were the most common explanations of these expansions. I compared changes in forest characteristics in countries where different black woodpecker population trends were observed. Results showed that countries with positive population trends had significantly higher increase in coniferous forest volume. These countries had also significantly higher proportion of young forest stands. The importance of coniferous forests, as well as importance of forest structure for the black woodpecker, are discussed.
3682915|We investigated wolf feeding habits in relation to the abundance of wild and domestic ungulates to test the hypothesis that large prey are preferred and that their abundance affects the use of other food categories and diet breadth. We determined diet composition by scat analysis from December 1987 to December 1992. The research was carried out in three study areas located in northern Italy and characterised by marked differences in wild and domestic ungulate abundance. In study area A (low wild and domestic ungulate availability) fruits, livestock, other vertebrates and wild ungulates made up the bulk of the diet (71% in volume). In area B (high availability of livestock) wolf diet was mainly based on sheep and wild boars (80% in volume). In study area C (high availability of wild ungulates) wild ungulates were the main food of wolves (90% in volume). Significant differences were found among study areas in the mean percentage volume of all food categories and in particular for wild ungulates, livestock, other vertebrates and fruits (p < 0.0001 in all cases). Diet breadth decreased in areas with high availability of large wild and domestic herbivores. The use of livestock species was lower where there was high abundance, richness and diversity of the wild ungulate guild. Selection for wild ungulate species was partially affected by their abundance; however other factors as prey social behaviour, adaptability to the habitat (for introduced species), and body size could have an important role in species selection by wolves. In particular in area C wild boars were selected for, roe and red deers avoided, and fallow deers and mouflons used as available. Livestock species were used in relation to their abundance and accessibility, in particular sheep were selected for and cattle avoided; but if calves born in the pastures were considered as the only available cattle, they were selected for and sheep were used as available. Large and in particular wild herbivores were found to be of great importance for the wolf population maintenance in northern Italy, one of the most important recovery areas of Mediterranean wolves.
3683271|Species of large animals and plants have geographically restricted distributions, but it is unclear if this also applies to free-living micro-organisms. We have attempted to clarify this, by investigating the ciliated protozoa living in a habitat that is separated from northern Europe by geographical barriers and great distance - the sediment of a Holocene volcanic crater-lake with brackish water, in Australia. Of the 85 ciliate species recorded, none was 'new', and all (apart from one species previously described only from tropical Africa) are known from northern Europe. All species appear to have reached the crater by passive dispersal from other freshwater and marine environments. The significance of this finding lies in the fact that ciliates are among the largest and most fragile of microbes. If ciliate species have global distributions, it is likely that the same is true for the many smaller, more abundant and more easily dispersed microbial species, including bacteria. There is some support for this in the literature, and most species smaller than ca 1 mm may have global distributions. Biodiversity at the microbial level is fundamentally different from that of macroscopic animals and plants, and it may be difficult to make realistic extrapolations from the attributes of microbial communities, to biodiversity in general.
30243148|Local ecological attributes of streams are known to have strong influences on community membership for many aquatic insects. Differences in aquatic insect assemblages, therefore, should be clearly detectable across large scale ecological "units", such as ecoregions. Many studies of aquatic invertebrates however, have suffered from a lack of species level identifications. In addition, many previous studies that examined the influence of ecoregion on aquatic assemblages have the implicit assumption that members of different taxa are responding in the same manner. Our study, therefore, was restricted to an ecologically (lotic) and functionally (mostly filter-feeding) homogenous group, the Simuliidae. In the current study, we examine the relationship between species assemblages of preimaginal blackflies and the landscape through which their stream habitats flow. Accordingly, the larval simuliid faunas from South Carolina, USA, are compared among three ecoregions established a priori: Blue Ridge Mountains, Piedmont, and Sandhills. Using discriminant function analysis, we show that each ecoregion produces a distinct stream habitat; factors responsible for regionalization are quantified. We also show that streams can be assigned correctly to ecoregion of origin 85% of the time on the basis of the simuliid assemblage. We suggest that our results can be interpreted most readily by considering the distribution of individual species.
3683307| Autumn and winter predation on bank vole Clethrionomys glareolus and yellow-necked mouse Apodemus flavicollis was studied in 1985/86-88/89 in an
30243275|Phytophthora ramorum is a damaging invasive plant pathogen and was first discovered in the UK in 2002. Spatial point analyses were applied to the occurrence of this disease in England and Wales during the period of 2003-2006 in order to assess its spatio-temporal spread. Out of the 4301 garden centres and nurseries (GCN) surveyed, there were 164, 105, 123 and 41 sites with P. ramorum in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Spatial analysis of the observed point patterns of GCN outbreaks suggested that these sites were significantly clumped within a radius of ca 60 km in 2003, but not in later years. Further analyses were conducted to determine the relationship of GCN outbreak sites over two consecutive years and thus to infer possible disease spread over time. This analysis suggested that disease spread among GCN sites was most likely to have occurred within a distance of 60 km for 2003-2004, but not for the later years. There were 35, 63, 81 and 58 sites with P. ramorum in the semi-natural environment (SNE). Analyses were carried out to assess whether infected GCN sites could act as an inoculum source of infected SNE plants or vice versa. In all years, there was a significant spatial closeness among GCN and SNE outbreak sites within a distance of 1 km. But a significant relationship over a longer distance (within 60 km) was only observed between cases in 2003 and 2004. These analyses suggest that statutory actions taken so far appear to have reduced the extent of long-distance spread of P. ramorum among garden centres and nurseries, but not the disease spread at a shorter distance between GCN and SNE sites.
3682996|Dry bulk density (BD) and concentrations of N and C in the organic matter have been studied in the top layers (0-40 cm) of Sphagnum-dominated hummocks on ombrotrophic bogs selected to form three gradients from hyperoceanic to weakly oceanic conditions in areas of different latitude in NW Europe and North America. In such hummocks N is conserved during the decay process and can, therefore, be used as an innate marker to calculate mass balances and the rate of the decay process and also to establish an approximate time scale. The variation in BD and N by depth in the living moss layer is explained by the growth pattern of the mosses, and the litter formed at the bottom of the layer (the litter depositon level, LDL) becomes depleted in N. Further down in the litter and peat layers the variation in BD and N is explained by the decomposition and the subsequent losses of C and disintergration of the matrix of the organic matter in the acrotelm. Below the LDL the concentration of N increases with depth down to the decay decrease level (DDL) as does BD down to the compaction decline level (CDL), a few cm below the DDL. In both cases the increase can be described by an exponential function of the cumulative amount of N and cumulative weight of organic matter, respectively. The increase in BD dependes more on the matrix of organic matter losing resistance than on the load of the overlying peat. The DDL is regarded as the limit between the two functional layers, which are the acrotelm and catotelm. Below the DDL and CDL, the irregular variation in N and BD indicates that the processes of decay and compression have become interrupted at various stages. The annual transfer of organic matter to the litter layer at the LDL is about ten times greater on the bogs in the hyperoceanic, temperate regions, than in the sub-arctic region. However, the depth of the DDL and amount of organic matter contained above it does not correlate with the degree of oceanity. The age of the organic matter at DDL (range 40->400 yr) is less in the hyperoceanic areas than in the less oceanic areas at the same latitude. However, higher decay rates on the bogs in the hyperoceanic areas offset the higher transfer of organic matter at the LDL. As a result, the final accumulation of slowly decaying organic material in the catotelm does not correlate with the degree of oceanity but might, instead, depend more on the hydrology of the bog.
3683572|We compared the habitat preference and the mobility of different populations of primarily forest living, satyrine butterflies by observing them in a manipulated environment, containing different habitat types inside a large outdoor cage. The cage was 30 m long and divided into three parts. Each end of the cage contained a shady habitat, made to be similar to the floor of a forest with sunlit spots. In between these shady parts, there was a 14 m long open part, like a glade or a meadow. We performed two studies in the cage. In the first study, we compared a population of a species with very restricted distribution in Sweden, Lopinga achine, and a population of a widely distributed and expanding species, Pararge aegeria. We found that the two species had similar habitat preferences in the cage, but that L. achine had a lower rate of dispersal from one shady part of the cage to the other. In the second study, we compared two populations of P. aegeria, a Swedish forest living population and a Madeiran population inhabiting a fairly open habitat. We found that, although individuals of the Swedish population avoided staying in the open, middle part of the cage, they dispersed between the shady parts of the cage at a higher rate than individuals of the Madeiran population. We argue that studies of the kind we performed can serve the purpose of testing hypotheses about habitat preference and mobility that derive from other field work or from information about distribution patterns.
3683026| To gain better insight into how small-scale disturbances might affect ecological processes, such as the maintenance of plant species diversity, we conducted a two-year study characterizing spatio-temporal patterns of gopher mound production on a tallgrass prairie remnant located at Anderson Prairie, Iowa, USA. The locations of all newly produced gopher mounds were mapped on two 80  80 m permanent plots. We used these data to characterize spatio-temporal patterns of mound production across a range of scales. We found that mound production was highly clustered at scales of < 8 m over short periods of time (< 2 weeks), but shifted in location over a 3-4 weeks time period, resulting in a clustered pattern at scales of < 20 m over longer time periods (up to the 2 yr of the study). We also found that patterns of mound production at intermediate spatial scales (> 20 m) remained fairly static over time, although they differed significantly from site to site. The results of this study suggest that small-scale patterns of variability in mound production may increase habitat variability over very short spatial scales, possibly providing a mechanism that can enhance the development and maintenance of species diversity. 
3683245|Both breeding and wintering assemblages of birds in Britain exhibit positive interspecific relationships between population size and geographic range size, such that the average density of species is greater if they are more widely distributed. Species in common to both assemblages, that is resident species, had greater population sizes, geographic range sizes, and densities in winter. In contrast, whilst winter migrants had higher abundances than summer migrants, the range sizes of the former were disproportionately larger still, resulting in a lower density for species that only winter in Britain than for those that only breed. Such differences aside, the overall form of the abundance-range size relationship is remarkably similar between the two assemblages and their constituent subsets of species.
3683276|I used a reciprocal sowing experiment in the field to reveal differentiation in adaptive traits between two neighbouring northern populations of Scots pine Pinus sylvestris. I compared a peat bog population with a mineral soil population. Seedling survival was monitored during seven growing seasons and the plants were then harvested to obtain data on pine traits associated with growth and resource allocation, i.e. height, needle length, total dry weight, relative growth, proportion root and proportion needles. Seeds from the peat bog populations had lower germination capacity and were smaller than those from the mineral soil population. Despite their smaller size, the seeds from the bog population were superior for establishment of pines on the bog. On the mineral soil, the traits were strikingly similar in the two pine populations. In contrast, the traits were more variable and differentiated on the bog. Here, the native bog pines grew faster and had a larger proportion root than those originating from the population on the adjacent mineral soil. It is suggested that the differentiation between peat bog populations and mineral soil populations might represent a major direction of differentiation in northern Scots pine populations.
3683713|Epidemiological models predict a positive relationship between host population density and abundance of macroparasites. Here I test these by a comparative study. I used data on communities of four groups of parasites inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract of mammals, nematodes of the orders Oxyurida, Ascarida, Enoplida and Spirurida, respectively. The data came from 44 mammalian species and represent examination of 16886 individual hosts. I studied average prevalence of all nematodes within an order in a host species, a measure of community level abundance, and considered the potential confounding effects of host body weight, fecundity, age at maturity and diet. Host population density was positively correlated with parasite prevalence within the order Oxyurida, where all species have direct life cycles. Considering the effects of other variables did not change this. This supports the assumption that parasite transmission rate generally is a positive function of host population density. It also strengthens the hypothesis that host densities generally act as important determinants of species richness among directly transmitted parasites and suggests that negative influence of such parasites on host population growth rate increase with increasing host population density among host species. Within the other three nematode orders, where a substantial number of the species have indirect life cycles, no relationships between prevalence and host population density were seen. Again, considering the effects of other variables did not affect this conclusion. This suggests that host population density is a poor predictor of species richness of indirectly transmitted parasites and that effects of such parasites on host population dynamics do not scale with host densities among species of hosts.
3682784|The distribution of much of the world's biodiversity is poorly known. It is suggested that the species richness of certain indicator taxa may reflect that of other, poorly studied taxa, making the mapping of individual taxa uneccessary and providing a guide to conservationists. In this paper we examine this proposition at a spatial scale relevant to practical conservation. We show that the relationship between the species richnesses of certain higher taxa in Britain is spatially highly variable and unpredictable. Britain may not be representative of other areas of the world but our results indicate that considerable further analysis is required before indicator taxa can be recruited as a reliable short cut to conservation planning.
3683766|Freshwater systems are vulnerable to pollution and species loss often ensues. Are there additional implications for assemblage structure? Here we use Berger-Parker d, Simpson's 1/D and Simpson's E to measure the ecological diversity of pristine and perturbed freshwater fish assemblages in Trinidad, West Indies, and Oklahoma, USA. Although the impacted sites typically had fewer species than expected, they could not be distinguished from unperturbed ones of equivalent richness. Changes in the evenness of these assemblages are thus driven by changes in richness. One practical outcome is that diversity indices may not provide independent verification of the detrimental consequences of pollution. The similarity in structure of naturally and anthropogenically impoverished assemblages provides no grounds for complacency, however, since it ignores the evolutionary history of the species concerned. On the basis of our results we suggest that species provenance may be important in tests of ecological function. Moreover, these investigations should replicate natural patterns of evenness as well as richness.
3682872|I draw attention to the need for ecologists to take spatial structure into account more seriously in hypothesis testing. If spatial autocorrelation is ignored, as it usually is, then analyses of ecological patterns in terms of environmental factors can produce very misleading results. This is demonstrated using synthetic but realistic spatial patterns with known spatial properties which are subjected to classical correlation and multiple regression analyses. Correlation between an autocorrelated response variable and each of a set of explanatory variables is strongly biased in favour of those explanatory variables that are highly autocorrelated - the expected magnitude of the correlation coefficient increases with autocorrelation even if the spatial patterns are completely independent. Similarly, multiple regression analysis finds highly autocorrelated explanatory variables "significant" much more frequently than it should. The chances of mistakenly identifying a "significant" slope across an autocorrelated pattern is very high if classical regression is used. Consequently, under these circumstances strongly autocorrelated environmental factors reported in the literature as associated with ecological patterns may not actually be significant. It is likely that these factors wrongly described as important constitute a red-shifted subset of the set of potential explanations, and that more spatially discontinuous factors (those with bluer spectra) are actually relatively more important than their present status suggests. There is much that ecologists can do to improve on this situation. I discuss various approaches to the problem of spatial autocorrelation from the literature and present a randomisation test for the association of two spatial patterns which has advantages over currently available methods.
3683485|Testing for aggregation or regularity in point patterns is difficult in the presence of spatial variation in abundance due to environmental heterogeneity. Using a recently developed method generalizing Ripley's K function for non homogeneous point patterns, we test the aggregation of the nests in two species of birds (little owl and Montagu's harrier) exhibiting heterogeneous distributions in response to landscape structure. We compare the results obtained under different null models accounting for environmental heterogeneity at large and/or small spatial scales. Whereas both species were initially found to form clusters at some scale, taking spatial heterogeneity into account revealed that 1) territorial little owls showed no clustering of territories when habitat availability was considered; 2) semi-colonial harriers still formed significant clusters, but part of the aggregation in this species could be explained by landscape structure alone. Our results highlight that it is feasible and highly recommended to account for non-stationarity when testing for aggregation. Further, provided that sufficient knowledge of the study system is available, this approach helps to identify behavioural and environmental components of spatial variation in abundance. Additionally, we demonstrate that accounting for large or small-scale heterogeneity affects the perception of spacing behaviours differently, so that both need to be considered.
3683704|The regional synchrony of short-term population fluctuations of small rodents and small game has usually been explained by varying impacts of generalist predators subsisting on both voles and small game (the "alternative prey hypothesis" APH). APH says that densities of predators increase as a response to increasing vole densities and then these predators shift their diet from the main prey to the alternative prey when the main prey decline and vice versa. We studied the diet composition of breeding common buzzards Buteo buteo during 1985-92 in western Finland. Microtus voles were the main prey and water voles, shrews, forest grouse, hares and small birds the most important alternative prey. Our data from the between-year variation in the diet composition of buzzards fulfilled the main predictions of APH. The yearly proportion of main prey (Microtus voles) in the diet was higher in years of high than low vole abundance. The proportion of grouse in the diet of buzzards was negatively related to the abundance of Microtus voles in the field and was nearly independent of grouse abundance in the field. In addition, buzzards mainly took grouse chicks and young hares which is consistent with the prediction of APH. Therefore, we conclude that buzzards are able to shift their diet in the way predicted by the APH and that buzzards, together with other generalist predators, may reduce the breeding success of small game in the decline phase of the vole cycle, and thus substantially contribute to the existence of short-term population cycles of small game.
30243142|Traditionally managed mountain grasslands in the Alps are species-rich ecosystems that developed during centuries of livestock grazing. However, changes in land use including fertilisation of well accessible pastures and gradual abandonment of remote sites are increasingly threatening this diversity. In five regions of the Swiss and French Alps we assessed the relationship between land use, soil resource availability, cover of the unpalatable species Veratrum album, species richness and vegetation composition of mountain grasslands across four spatial scales ranging from 1 to 1000 m Mean species richness and the increase in the number of species with increasing area were lower in intensively grazed, fertilised pastures than in traditional pastures or in abandoned pastures. Species composition of abandoned pastures differed from that of the other management types. Plant species richness was influenced by different factors at different spatial scales. At the 1 m scale, plant species richness was negatively related to soil nitrate and influenced by the cover of V album, depending on land use: species richness and cover of V album were negatively correlated in abandoned pastures, but positively correlated in fertilised grasslands. At the 1000 m scale, a negative effect of fertilization on richness was evident. These results indicate that at small scales species richness in mountain grasslands is determined by competition for light, which should be more important if nutrient availability is high, and by positive and negative interactions with unpalatable plants. In contrast, species richness at the large scale appears to be mainly influenced by land use. This result emphasizes the importance of studying such inter-relationships at multiple scales. Our study further suggests that the maintenance of the traditional land use scheme is crucial for the conservation of plant species richness of mountain pastures as both intensification and abandonment changed species composition and reduced plant species diversity.
3683079|Negative effects of habitat fragmentation (increased isolation and reduced habitat size) affected presence of several beetle species inhabiting Fomes fomentarius (L.) Kickx basidiocarps in a fragmented forest landscape. At the scale of individual trees (tree level), incidence of Cis jacquemarti Mell./C. nitidus (F.) (not distinguished between individuals of these two species, abbreviated C. jacquemarti/nitidus), C. bidentatus (Ol.), C. lineatocribratus Mell., Ennearthron cornutum (Gyll.) (all Coleoptera, Cisidae) and Dorcatoma dresdensis Herbst (Coleoptera, Anobiidae) was reduced with increased habitat isolation and reduced habitat size. Additionally, increased habitat size at a larger scale (forest island level) also gave higher incidence of all species. Some of the microhabitat variables measured influenced upon the presence of the study species. Fallen trees had a higher probability of C. jacquemarti/nitidus presence than standing trees, whilst the opposite was the case for C. bidentatus. There was also increased incidence of C. bidentatus on trees in denser forests and of E. cornutum in grey alder Alnus incana compared with birch trees (Betula spp.). Increased volume of basidiocarps on a tree resulted in a higher number of individuals of C. jacquemarti/nitidus and C. lineatocribratus.
3682828|Bird diversity was assessed by point-transect-count sampling during the dry and the wet season in riverine gallery woodland and in Colophospermum mopane woodland with different levels of elephant impact. Dramatic woodland degradation did not result in a dramatic overall reduction in bird diversity, but resulted in substantial changes in bird species composition and capacity for migrant birds. Less affected, more dense woodlands functioned as dry season refuges for 'resident' Afrotropical species, but this function was lost in degraded woodlands. In contrast, secondarized habitat had a much higher capacity for long distance migrants in the wet season. Species endemic to the sub-region and subspecies with restricted ranges centred in the area were not negatively affected by woodland degradation. The cumulative interference of past and current elephant numbers with the conservation of bird diversity appears to be insignificant in northern Botswana.
3683644|In a field study we found that two rust fungi, Tranzchelia anemones and Ochropsora ariae, on the shared host Anemone nemorosa varied in abundance among populations. Tranzchelia anemones was favoured in high light habitats and was particularly common in mixed deciduous forests as well as productive grasslands, whereas the abundance and occurrence of O. ariae was dependent on the presence of the alternate host, Sorbus aucuparia When found in the same population, the two rusts rarely attacked the same ramet. Both T. anemones and O. ariae had a negative effect on plant performance by reducing flower production, and rhizome length. Diseased shoots were also elongated.
30244662|The identification of spatial structures is a key step in understanding the ecological processes structuring the distribution of organisms. Spatial patterns in species distributions result from a combination of several processes occuring at different scales: identifying these scales is thus a crucial issue. Recent studies have proposed a new family of spatial predictors (PCNM: principal coordinates of neighbours matrices; MEMs: Moran's eigenvectors maps) that allow for modelling of spatial variation on different scales. To assess the multi-scale spatial patterns in multivariate data, these variables are often used as predictors in constrained ordination methods. However, the selection of the appropriate spatial predictors is still troublesome, and the identification of the main scales of spatial variation remains an open question. This paper presents a new statistical tool to tackle this issue: the multi-scale pattern analysis (MSPA). This ordination method uses MEMs to decompose ecological variability into several spatial scales and then summarizes this decomposition using graphical representations. A canonical form of MSPA can also be used to assess the spatial scales of the species-environment relationships. MSPA is compared to constrained ordination using simulated data, and illustrated using the famous oribatid mites dataset. The method is implemented in the free software R.
20696294|Habitat selection can be influenced by the distribution of the habitat types in the landscape as well as net gain in visiting patches of resources, causing individual variation in habitat selection. Moreover, the hypothesis of functional response in habitat selection predicts that the degree of selection of a resource depends on its relative availability. We used radio-telemetry data from individual moose on an island off the coast of northern Norway to evaluate whether the selection of habitat types at the landscape scale differed from the choice of habitat types within the home range, and investigated the functional response in habitat selection by relating individual habitat selection to home range characteristics. At the landscape scale, moose selected for habitat types that provided both good forage and cover, with small differences between sex and age groups. At the home range scale, all individuals selected habitat types that were associated with cover and low human impact. Habitat selection was not modified by local moose density, but was related to home range size at both spatial scales. Larger home ranges contained larger proportions of non-preferred habitat types compared to smaller home ranges. At the home range scale, the selection for a habitat type decreased with its relative availability, indicating a functional response in habitat selection. This suggests that habitat selection is modified by home range size, which influences the availability of habitat types and shapes individual habitat selection patterns. Our results support previous suggestions that analyses of habitat or resource selection should follow a multiscale approach. Both the relative availability of habitat types as well as individual variation in home range size should be accounted for in order to disentangle the complex mechanisms that contribute to shape patterns of resource selection in animals.
30243147|As information becomes available for many groups of organisms a general pattern of phylogenetic conservatism in ecological characters or morphological traits is now widely recognized. Conversely, conservatism of external ecological attributes throughout a lineage is still a contentious theme in ecology. Moreover, the studies exploring this topic have focused on free-living organisms, and have ignored parasites. The main external ecological attribute of parasite species is certainly their host specificity, which is a key determinant of both their range size and local abundance. We address the subject of conservatism and predictability of host specificity using 2 large databases concerning, respectively, ectoparasites and endoparasites. We found a significant positive relationship between the numbers of host species infested by flea sister species. Moreover, this result was consistent whether we used sympatric or allopatric flea species, suggesting no influence of the mode of speciation on this conservatism of specificity. Additionally, our results showed that congeneric helminth species have more similar host taxonomic diversities than expected by chance, although this conservatism is due mostly to trematodes. Whilst there is evidence of conservatism, the moderate levels preclude robust prediction of host specificity for one species based on that of closely related species.
30244552|In the light of the predicted changes in climate as a consequence of global warming, it is a major concern how animal species will respond to altered meteorological and oceanographic conditions. Seabirds constitute a diverse group of marine top predators which have relatively low fecundity and high annual survival rates. In order to predict effects of climate change, it is a necessary precondition to first understand responses to naturally occurring climatic fluctuations. While the ecological effects of different large-scale climatic phenomena have received much attention in the recent past, the factors determining the responses of seabirds are still little understood. We analyze more than a hundred previously published time series of seabird offspring production and adult survival rates in the North Atlantic in order to detect climatic signals in this data base. As our analyses are phylogenetic-comparative, we are able to search for patterns across species. Using the correlation of these parameters with the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) as a measure of responsiveness to climatic variability, we find that effects of climate on either parameters considered are not more common than expected by chance. The magnitudes of the responsivenesses were not entirely randomly distributed throughout the seabird phylogeny, but were not strongly related to the explanatory variables considered. However, some tendencies indicate that both life-history traits and feeding ecology may influence how seabirds respond to climatic variability. An explanation of those patterns based on life-history theory is given.
3683471|Whether cohort effects can be retrieved in adult phenotypes depends on the possibility for individuals to compensate for a good or bad start in life. This ability to compensate may itself depend on the environment and on individual sex. In large polygynous ungulates, male reproductive success relies more on body size than the reproductive success of females, which makes them more sensitive to a bad start in life. Based on current theories of life history evolution and sexual selection, we tested the following predictions in a moose population: 1) cohort effects and year effects occur in both male and female adult body mass, but due to 2) compensatory growth, cohort effects tend to fade away with the individual's age; and 3) males are more sensitive to cohort effects than females. In support of the first prediction, we found that density and climate during the year-of-birth and the year-of-harvest affected moose body mass in both sexes. However, the magnitude of the effects of environmental conditions at birth on adult body mass decreased with increasing age, but less so in males than in females. Thus, as expected based on our third prediction, environmental conditions early in life were more influential on adult body mass of males compared to females. Such a result supports the existence of sex-specific life history tactics, with males maximising growth rate and females rather trading-off growth for reproduction.
3683139|The contribution of vegetation ecology to the study of biodiversity depends on better communication between the different research paradigms in ecology. Recent developments in vegetation theory and associated statistical modelling techniques are reviewed for their relevance to biodiversity. Species composition and collective properties such as species richness vary as a continuum in a multi-dimensional environmental space; a concept which needs to be incorporated into biodiversity studies. Different kinds of environmental gradients can be recognised and species responses to them vary. Species response curves of eucalypts to an environmental gradient of mean annual temperature have been shown to exhibit a particular pattern of skewed response curves. Generalised linear modelling (GLM) and generalised additive modelling (GAM) techniques are important tools for biodiversity studies. They have successfully distinguished the contribution of environmental (climatic) and spatial (history and species dispersal ability) variables in determining forest tree composition in New Zealand. Species richness studies are examined at global, regional and local scales. At all scales, direct and resource environmental gradients need to be incorporated into the analysis rather than indirect gradients e.g. latitude which have no direct physiological influence on biota. Evidence indicates that species richness at the regional scale is sensitive to environment, confounding current studies on local/regional species richness relationships. Plant community experiments require designs based on environmental gradients rather than dependent biological properties such as productivity or species richness to avoid confounding the biotic components. Neglect of climatic and other environmental gradients and the concentration on the collective properties of species assemblages has limited recent biodiversity studies. Conservation evaluation could benefit from greater use of the continuum concepts and statistical modelling techniques of vegetation ecology. The future development of ecology will depend on testing the different assumptions of competing research paradigms and a more inclusive synthesis of ecological theory.
30244677|Knowledge of temporal change in ecological condition is important for the understanding and management of ecosystems. However, analyses of trends in biological condition have been rare, as there are usually too few data points at any single site to use many trend analysis techniques. We used a Bayesian hierarchical model to analyse temporal trends in stream ecological condition (as measured by the invertebrate-based index SIGNAL) across Melbourne, Australia. The Bayesian hierarchical approach assumes dependency amongst the sampling sites. Results for each site "borrow strength" from the other data because model parameter values are assumed to be drawn from a larger common distribution. This leads to robust inference despite the few data that exist at each site. Utilising the flexibility of the Bayesian approach, we also modelled change over time as a function of catchment urbanisation, allowed for potential temporal and spatial autocorrelation of the data and trend estimates, and used prior information to improve the estimate of data uncertainty. We found strong evidence of a widespread decline in SIGNAL scores for edge habitats (areas of little or no flow). The rate of decline was positively associated with catchment urbanisation. There was no evidence of such declines for riffle habitats (areas with rapid and turbulent flow). Melbourne has experienced a decline in rainfall, indicative of either drought and/or longer-term climate change. The results are consistent with the expected coupled effects of these rainfall changes and increasing urbanisation, but more research is needed to isolate a causal mechanism. More immediately, however, the Bayesian hierarchical approach has allowed us to identify a pattern in a biological monitoring data set that might otherwise have gone un-noticed, and to demonstrate a large-scale temporal decline in biological condition.
30244707|We sought to identify environmental factors influencing crustacean zooplankton species richness in brackish lagoons and to elucidate whether crustacean zooplankton species richness and trophic structure of brackish lagoons differ among two regions with contrasting temperatures. We sampled 35 and 42 brackish lagoons (salinity ranging from 0.3 to 55) in Mediterranean Catalonia (NE Spain) and northern-temperate Denmark, respectively. No significant differences were found in total crustacean zooplankton species richness or cladoceran richness between the climatic regions. Calanoid richness was higher in Denmark than in Catalonia, while cyclopoid richness was higher in Catalonia. Salinity was the most important variable associated with zooplankton species richness in both regions, richness of total zooplankton species, cladocerans and cyclopoids being negatively related with salinity. In both regions, a shift occurred from dominance of large filter feeding cladoceran species at low salinities to copepods and small cladoceran species at higher salinities. Cladoceran richness increased with increasing total phosphorus, but was not influenced by total nitrogen or chlorophyll-a. Trophic structure in Mediterranean brackish lagoons showed a more pronounced seasonal variation than in north temperate brackish lagoons. Our results imply that the indirect effects of climate warming, such as changes in salinity and hydrology, will have a larger impact on brackish lagoon ecosystems than the increase in temperature per se.
3683744|Insects are reportedly uncommon in marine habitats and, from a spatial/temporal intercomparison perspective, estuaries are among the least studied. We examined the natural variability seen among insect community organisation in estuaries on both sides of the North Atlantic, and evaluated the role of their physical environments. Community composition was found to be strongly influenced by three physical factors: estuary size, the degree of inundation by incoming tides, and substrate size/stability. Insects formed a significant proportion (17-54%, by numbers) of the benthic community of coarse-grained-substratum estuaries, and species richness increased with estuary size. Nymphs/larvae of mayflies, stoneflies, caddisflies, elmid beetles and chironomids dominated channel sites inundated by up to 25% of all incoming tides, but a gradual loss in species richness occurred downstream. However, even the most seaward sites supported high insect densities (up to 25016 and 5433 m
30244650|Studies investigating the consequences of future climate changes on species distributions usually start with the assumption that species respond to climate changes in an individualistic fashion. This assumption has led researchers to use bioclimate envelope models that use present climate-range relationships to characterize species' limits of tolerance to climate, and then apply climate-change scenarios to enable projections of altered species distributions. However, there are techniques that combine climate variables together with information on the composition of assemblages to enable projections that are expected to mimic community dynamics. Here, we compare, for the first time, the performance of GLM (generalized linear model) and CQO (canonical quadratic ordination; a type of community-based GLM) for projecting distributions of species under climate change scenarios. We found that projections from these two methods varied both in terms of accuracy (GLM providing generally more accurate projections than CQO) and in the broad diversity patterns yielded (higher species richness values projected with CQO). Model outputs were also affected by species-specific traits, such as species range size and species geographical positions, supporting the view that methods are sensitive to different degrees of equilibrium of species distributions with climate. This study reveals differences in projections between individual- and community-based approaches that require further scrutiny, but it does not find support for unsupervised use community-based models for investigating climate change impacts on species distributions. Reasons for this lack of support are discussed.
3683843|Most of our current understanding of rarity has come from studies of terrestrial plants and animals, whereas freshwater habitats remain poorly documented under this topic. Here we considered the spatial distribution patterns of rarity at the river catchment scale, for five freshwater taxa (fish, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera and Coleoptera) in southwestern France. The data were collected at 554 and 155 sampling sites for fish and aquatic insects, respectively. General Linear Modelling was used to assess the influence of some typological variables (elevation, stream order, distance from source, and reach slope) on local numbers of rare species (restricted range). The relative numbers of rare species per taxa varied from 16% (Plecoptera) to 59% (Trichoptera). GLM chiefly yielded highly significant correlations between rarity and distance from the source and/or elevation for all taxa, showing that numbers of rare stream species increase towards downstream areas within the stream system. The spatial patterns in rarity for the different study taxa were rather concordant, probably as a result of similar responses to environmental conditions. By focusing on integrative variables, we emphasized the influence of river typology on the rarity of aquatic animals. Areas which carry rare species may concentrate an important fraction of the regional biodiversity. If end-users need geographic models (i.e. maps) to design river management frameworks, numerical patterning is needed to provide theoretical backgrounds: by predicting what the rarity should be like in a given area, we can provide explicit spatial schemes that may be useful to target further research, and to implement management options.
3682876|We used data on body size and host range of phytophagous Heteroptera in central Europe, an inverse measure of specialisation, to analyse the relationship of body size vs specialisation: 1) we found a clear positive relationship between body size and host range using species as independent data points. 2) However, a nested analysis of variance shows that most of the variance in body size occurred at higher taxonomic levels whereas most of the variance in host specialisation occurred between species. This suggests different phylogenetic inertia of body size and specialisation. Nevertheless, using means of different higher taxonomic levels there is still a significant positive correlation between body size and host range. 3) With more sophisticated methods of correcting for the phylogenetic relatedness between species, the positive correlation between body size and host range still holds, despite the different assumptions of each method. Thus, the relationship between body size and host range is a very robust pattern in true bugs.
3683532|We studied population dynamics of red squirrels in a group of small forest fragments, that cover only 6.5% of the total study area (4664 ha) and where distances to the nearest source population were up to 2.2 km. We tested effects of patch size, quality and isolation and supplementary feeding on patch occupation during 1995-99. Larger patches and patches with supplementary feeding had a higher probability of being occupied. No patch < 3.5 ha was ever occupied. No effects of isolation were found, suggesting that the forest habitat in the study area is not sufficiently fragmented to influence red squirrel distribution across patches. For medium sized patches (3.7-21 ha), that were occupied some years, there was an increase in patch occupation over the years, even though overall population size tended to decrease. These patches had a high turnover, especially of males. Patches in which the squirrel population went extinct were recolonized within a year. For patches that were at least some years occupied, squirrel density depended on patch quality only. No effects of patch size, isolation and winter temperature on population density were found. These data suggest that in our study area habitat fragmentation has no effect on local squirrel density and that the random sample hypothesis explains the distribution pattern across patches.
30243199|Shallow high-latitude lakes and ponds are usually characterized by an oligotrophic water column overlying a biomass-rich, highly productive benthos. Their pelagic food webs often contain abundant zooplankton but the importance of benthic organic carbon versus seston as their food sources has been little explored. Our objectives were to measure the <tex-math>$\delta^{13}C$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> isotopic signatures of pelagic and benthic particulate organic matter (POM) in shallow water bodies in northern Canada and to determine the relative transfer of this material to zooplankton and other aquatic invertebrates. Fluorescence analysis of colored dissolved organic matter (CDOM) indicated a relatively strong terrestrial carbon influence in five subarctic waterbodies whereas the CDOM in five arctic water columns contained mostly organic carbon of autochthonous origin. The isotopic signatures of planktonic POM and cohesive benthic microbial mats were distinctly different at all study sites, while non-cohesive microbial mats often overlapped in their <tex-math>$\delta^{13}C$</tex-math> signals with the planktonic POM. Zooplankton isotopic signatures indicated a potential trophic link with different fractions of planktonic POM and the non-cohesive mats whereas the cohesive mats did not appear to be used as a major carbon source. The zooplankton signals differed among species, indicating selective use of resources and niche partitioning. Most zooplankton had <tex-math>$\delta^{13}C$</tex-math> values that were intermediate between the values of putative food sources and that likely reflected selective feeding on components of the pelagic or benthic POM. The results emphasize the likely importance of benthic-pelagic coupling in tundra ecosystems, including for species that are traditionally considered pelagic and previously thought to be dependent only on phytoplankton as their food source.
3683794|Vagrancy among butterflies, defined as individuals found in mapping units (cells, squares) lacking larval hostplants, offers potential for measuring mobility among species. Herein, we investigate several simple measures of mobility (vagrancy indices) based on the occurrence of vagrants in two independent data sets within the same region. We find that the vagrancy indices do not simply reflect individual abundance, suggesting an innate component to mobility. The vagrancy indices agree closely for the two data sets. They also correlate highly with a migration index, based on distances over which species have been recorded moving during the last 50 yr, indicating that frequency of movement corresponds closely with migration distances of species. The frequency of movement in some species, as measured by the vagrancy indices, is shown to be under-recorded, particularly nymphalids. In other species (e.g. Celastrina argiolus, Anthocharis cardamines, Pyronia tithonus) according to vagrancy indices, migration distances seem to have been previously under-recorded. We suggest how data collection can be improved for obtaining measurement of butterfly mobility.
3683194|Young laboratory raised bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus, originating from a cyclic population at low phase, were experimentally subjected to manipulations of food and density. This was done to assess possible effects of the juvenile environment on later breeding success. Juveniles were exposed to the experimental treatments for 40 d previous to pairing. The study revealed that a high population density in itself can increase future breeding success as compared to low density. This effect was only found in females. There were also indications that high density led to arrested growth in subordinate females.
3683565|Paedomorphosis, in which adult individuals retain larval traits, is widespread in newts and salamanders. Most evolutionary models predict the maintenance of this life-history trait in favourable aquatic habitats surrounded by hostile terrestrial environments. Nevertheless, numerous ponds inhabited by paedomorphic individuals are unpredictable and temporary. In an experimental framework, I showed that paedomorphic newts were able to metamorphose and thus survive in the absence of water. However, the mere decrease of water level or the life space do not seem to induce metamorphosis in paedomorphs. On the contrary, drying up induces almost all individuals to move on land and after that to colonize other aquatic sites located nearby. Such terrestrial migrations allow survival in drying conditions without metamorphosis as long as the distances of terrestrial migration are short. These results are consistent with the presence of paedomorphs in drying ponds and are in favor of classic optimality models predicting metamorphosis in unfavorable environments.
3682890|The study reported here describes for the first time the similarity between pre- and post-fire spatial patterns of the trees in a Mediterranean pine forest demonstrating that the pre-fire ancestor microsite is occupied also by the next generation. Although Aleppo pine Pinus halepensis Mill. is an obligatory post-fire seeder, it is adapted to regenerate in its pre-fire growing microsite, thus keeping suitable growing sites from generation to generation. We studied the effect of the dead burned adult pines on the density and size of their recruited saplings 2, 5, 11 and 20 yr after fire. A comparison of pine sapling density and size was made between the 'near' zone (under the former effect of the burned canopy) and the 'far' zone (beyond the former effect of the burned canopy). In the site 2 yr after fire, seedling density was 56% higher in the 'far' zone than in the 'near' zone, but seedling size was similar. However in the site 20 yr after fire, densities were similar in both zones, but the size was bigger by 89% in the 'near' zone. Thus, population recruitment after fire seems to peak near the burned pine trees rather than at a distance from them, in contrast to Janzen's original 'distance hypothesis' model suggested for undisturbed rainforest. Here we present a new hypothetical model for the spatial pattern of post-fire regeneration of obligate seeder tree species forming open forests. It is proposed that in such trees the microsites which were kept by the burned adult trees, which are killed by the fire, are also the favorable regeneration microsite for the post-fire generation.
3683284|Computer simulations using a geographical information system were developed to investigate the relationships between the habitat composition of red grouse territories and the alignment of territory boundaries in relation to vegetation patterns. Field data were from a fifteen year study on Kerloch Moor, north-east Scotland, between 1963 and 1977. In order to determine whether observed territories were arranged randomly with respect to a number of habitat characteristics, they were compared with many simulated sets of possible territory arrangements by translation of the territory boundaries to a number of different positions relative to the vegetation mosaic. A suite of summary statistics was calculated for the simulated configurations, against which the observed configurations were tested. There was little evidence for territorial resource competition by red grouse. The positions of territories were not strongly influenced by their composition in terms of vegetation types or heather edge. Neither was there any obvious preference for territory boundaries to lie within particular vegetation types. However, there was clear evidence that physical features of the habitat (fences, walls, tracks, etc.) had a strong influence on the position of territory boundaries. Temporal and spatial habitat heterogeneity led to a number of technical and analytical problems, and the implications of these are discussed.
3683190|Food habits of the parti-coloured bat in southern Sweden were investigated by analysis of fecal samples collected from three maternity roosts used in summer and, in addition, one roost used by a male during the mating season in autumn. Small (c. 3-10 mm) dipterans dominated all samples, representing 64-82% by volume, but larger flying insects like moths, caddis-flies and dung beetles were also eaten, together representing 14-33%. At the family level, midges (Chironomidae) were by far the most common prey items, comprising 12-67% of the diet. The dominance of small prey items in the diet of the parti-coloured bat in Sweden contrasts with other bat species of similar size and foraging habits, but agrees with observations on parti-coloured bats in Ukraina and Poland.
3683816|A monotonic decline in species richness with increasing elevation has often been considered a general pattern, but recent evidence suggests that the dominant pattern is hump-shaped with maximum richness occurring at some mid-elevation point. To analyse the relationship between species richness and elevation at a local scale we surveyed birds from lowlands to timberline in the Bolivian Andes. We divided the transect into 12 elevational belts of 250 m and standardized species richness in each belt with both individual- and sample-based rarefaction and richness estimation. The empirical data were then correlated to four explanatory variables: 1) area per elevational belt, 2) elevation (also representing ecosystem productivity), 3) a mid-domain effect (MDE) null model of geometrically constrained empirical range sizes, and 4) a hump-shaped model derived empirically for South American birds representing the regional species pool hypothesis. Local species richness peaked at ca 1000 m elevation, declined sharply to ca 1750 m, and then remained roughly constant. Elevation was the best single predictor, accounting for 78-85% of the variance in the empirical data. A multiple regression model with elevation, area, and MDE explained 85-90% of the variance. Monte Carlo simulations showed that the richness peak at 1000 m is the result of an overlap of two distinct avifaunas (lowland and highland) and that the correlation to MDE in the multiple regression was likely spurious. We recommend complementing correlation analyses involving MDE predictions with an examination of the distribution of range midpoints. The steep decline at mid-elevations was mainly due to a rapid loss of lowland species. The high-elevation plateau is striking and unexpected, but has also been found previously. It cannot be explained at present and exemplifies that despite several decades of research elevational gradients are still not well understood.
30243156|Amphibians in general are considered poor dispersers and thus their dispersal curve should be dominated by short movements. Additionally, as male toads do not compete for females and sexual selection is by female choice, dispersal should be male-biased. Furthermore, since adults are site-loyal and polygynous, juveniles should move farther and faster than adults. We tested the hypotheses that dispersal would be limited and both sex- and age-biased in a population of Fowler's toads Bufo fowleri at Lake Erie, Ontario, Canada. Based on a mark-recapture study of 2816 toads, 1326 recaptured at least once, we found that although the toads did show high site fidelity, the dispersal curve was highly skewed with a significant "tail" where the maximum distance moved by an adult was 34 km. Dispersal was neither sex-biased nor age-biased despite clear theoretical predictions that dispersal should be biased towards males and juveniles. We conclude that the resource competition hypothesis of sex-biased dispersal does not predict dispersal tendencies as readily for amphibians as for mammals and birds. Toad dispersal only appears to be juvenile-biased because the juveniles are more abundant than the adults, not because they are the more active dispersers.
20696312|Geometric constraint models (GCMs) may be important tools for understanding macroecological patterns. However, there are currently a wide range of models in use, and few established criteria for selecting a model to use in a particular case. I propose a model selection procedure that uses multiple macroecological patterns to select the best fitting GCM. I then demonstrate this method by comparing the fit of three GCMs to patterns of richness, range size and range shape of New World birds and mammals. Which GCM fit best depended on the average range size of the group in question, suggesting that the choice of which GCM to use can and should be context-dependent. Objective model-selection criteria, such as those proposed here, offer a promising basis for making this choice.
3683226|I chart ways in which ecology could improve its performance in assessing the humanity-nature relationship. The life of humans, similar to all biological organisms, depends on utilization of their environment which is changed as a result. To evaluate the consequences, a broad range of issues needs to be addressed ranging from the historical dynamics of cultural development to specific idiosynchratic features of particular environmental issues. One should avoid nature-culture dualism both in theoretical thinking and practical research. A typical form of such dualism in ecologically informed environmentalism is an assumption that productivity of socioeconomic systems vs natural systems is a zero-sum game; this assumption is unfounded. Ecology should take the ecological conditions of human existence seriously and make judgements on the relationship of people with their natural environment in various historical situations in a contextually sensitive way. I end by listing several types of positive contribution that ecology could give to societal discussion on the human environmental predicament; the most important challenge is to point out new possibilities even in situations which seem hopeless.
3683514|The distribution of the flora with different species attributes are investigated in two studies of forest ecosystems in Denmark. One study compared 17 forests with different degrees of management, the other study compared the flora of 25 old forests with that of 6 new forests. No effect of forest management could be detected in the distribution of species attributes in the flora, whereas the forest continuity was correlated with almost all of the 14 traits investigated. Species with heavy seeds, transient seedbanks, ant dispersed seeds, early and short flowering time, low stature and high extent of lateral spread were more common in old forests, while the proportion of species with small, short-lived seeds, epizoochorous dispersal, little lateral spread and later and longer flowering period was higher in new forests. In particular, Raunkiaers therophytes, and ruderal species were more common in new forests than in old. Differences in the effects of the two types of disturbance - forest management, and breaks in forest continuity - are discussed in relation to survival strategies of the forest flora. The importance of persistence ability in contrast to colonisation ability is stressed for many forest plants.
3683574|We fogged 24 trees in two pine dominated forests in Norway with a synthetic pyrethroid in order to compare the canopy-dwelling fauna of arthropods between costal (Kvam) and boreal (Sigdal) sites and between old (250-330 yr) and mature (60-120 yr) trees at Sigdal. Almost 30 000 specimens were assigned to 510 species; only 93 species were present at both sites. Species diversity, as established by rarefaction, was similar in old and mature trees. However, the number of species new to Norway (including nine species new to science) was significantly higher in the old trees. We suggest that the scarcity of old trees, habitat heterogeneity and structural differences between old and mature trees may explain these patterns. Productivity and topographic position at the site of growth explained the between-tree variation in species occurrence for the more abundant species, which were mainly Collembola and Oribatida. Species diversity was similar at the boreal and coastal sites, but there were clear differences in species composition.
30244584|Herbivores usually consume a mere fraction of available plant biomass. Spatial patterns in feeding damage may be attributable to induced defences by the host plant; a damaged plant reacts by lowering its nutritional value, thereby forcing herbivores to move on before food gets worse. In this study, we test this general hypothesis on a specific model system: caterpillars of the alpine butterfly Parnassius smintheus feeding on lance-leaved stonecrop Sedum lanceolatum. We first describe spatial patterns in host distribution and feeding damage within alpine meadows. We then use laboratory experiments to test a key assumption behind the proposed mechanisms: that the host plant exhibits an induced response with a negative impact on larval performance, and that this response is activated with a delay. Finally, we relate the patterns observed to the actual behaviour of Parnassius larvae. Overall, we found the level of feeding damage to be low (on damaged plants, only 5% of all leaves were fed upon). Within meadows, both host plants and feeding damage were clumped at a small spatial scale. This pattern seemed directly explicable by the timing of the host's induced defence. Laboratory experiments revealed a delay of 1-2 d before the defence reached a level affecting larval performance, and wild larvae switch plants more quickly than this. A simulation model demonstrated that the spatial distribution of host plant damage can be generated by a simple random walk, based on the empirically observed step frequency, length and turning angles. Hence, as the most parsimonious explanation for the observed level and pattern of host plant damage, we offer a scenario where induced changes in host-plant quality limits the time spent per plant, but the herbivore moves throughout the landscape without any particular directionality.
3682901|A comprehensive canopy productivity model was built to study the productivity of a primary salt marsh grass, Spartina alterniflora, in Georgia, USA. The canopy model was unique in employing plant demographic data to reconstruct canopy profiles and dynamics, which showed many growth processes that are otherwise difficult to discern in the field. By linking canopy dynamics and leaf photosynthesis, the net total primary productivity of S. alterniflora in a Georgia salt marsh was estimated to be 1421, 749, and
30244532|We describe the geographical variation of corolla and nectar guide size in seven populations of Mimulus luteus (Phrymaceae) in central Chile, and examine whether flower phenotypes associate with taxonomic composition and flower visit patterns of pollinators across populations. Flowers showed higher variation in nectar guide size than corolla size. Mean corolla size increased with the proportion of bees and decreased with the proportion of lepidopterans in the pollinator assemblages. Nectar guide size increased with the proportion of hummingbirds in the pollinator assemblages. When the frequency of flower visits rather than taxonomic composition was considered, the results revealed similar patterns. Because these traits previously have been described as targets of bee-and hummingbird-mediated selection in M. luteus, our results have implications for understanding the processes that determine flower diversification in Chilean Mimulus. Although we cannot rule out ecological sorting as an explanation for the geographical association between pollinators and flower phenotypes, changes in the prevalence and importance of bees and hummingbirds across populations appear to account, at least in part, for the flower phenotypic variation across populations. The extent to which insect and hummingbird pollination in M. luteus produces pollinator-mediated divergence among populations needs to be examined in future studies.
3683242|Two peat cores from the Store Mosse mire in the central part of South Sweden have been analyzed for dry bulk density, carbon, and nitrogen. They cover the development of the peat mound from the time of the conversion of the initial fen to an ombrotrophic bog at 5450 BP through three different bog stages, the Fuscum, the Rubellum-Fuscum and the Magellanicum bog stages, each one characterized by a specific macrofossil assemblage. All N supplied to the bog surface is assumed to be contained in the organic matter. At the beginning of the Magellanicum bog stage, 1000 BP, the nitrogen accumulation rate increased from an earlier value of ca
3683865|We tested the hypothesis that within a relatively homogeneous vegetation type the spatial configuration of different plant species may be a determining factor in the composition of the soil animal communities. Six vascular plant species (Luzula confusa, Dryas octopetala, Cassiope tetragona, Salix polaris, Silene acaulis and Saxifraga oppositifolia), growing within high Arctic Saxifraga-lichen heath vegetation, showed different distributional patterns. Luzula confusa and S. polaris were ubiquitous throughout while D. octopetala and C. tetragona had the most scattered distributions. Soil microarthropod density varied significantly among plant species from 18 000 (S. polaris) to
3683017|The impact of predator removal or protection on the reproductive success and density of grouse populations was studied experimentally in southern and northern Finland. In predator removal areas small and medium-sized carnivores were efficiently hunted, while in predator protection areas hunting was prohibited. Both predator (red fox, raccoon dog, pine marten and stoat) and grouse populations were monitored. The breeding success of grouse, indicated by the young/adults ratio, decreased in the predator protection area in northern Finland during a vole low. Despite a decline in the vole population, the breeding success of grouse did not decline in the predator removal area. The mean brood size during the experiment was significantly higher in the removal areas than in the protection areas both in southern and northern Finland. Predator removal/protection thus affected the reproductive success of grouse, but the impact of control on adult grouse populations was not as evident.
20696293|The ancestors of rock ptarmigan Lagopus muta originated in the Beringia area well before the disruption of the Beringian land bridge. They spread westwards to Siberia and eastwards to the North American arctic and Greenland. The distribution of rock ptarmigan has been affected by glaciations restricting it to geographically limited refugia. Today the species has a circumpolar distribution in arctic tundra and alpine habitats, with up to 30 subspecies recognised based on morphological characters. We sequenced the mitochondrial control region for 72 individuals and genotyped 69 individuals for 12 microsatellite loci to investigate neutral genetic variation within and among five rock ptarmigan populations, Greenland, Iceland, Scandinavia, Svalbard and Taimyr. Genetic structure among the studied samples was high, overall $\text{F}_{\text{ST}}$ estimated from microsatellite loci was 0.18 and only one out of 16 mtDNA haplotypes was found in more than one population. Genetic variation (h, , $\text{H}_{\text{e}}$ , allelic richness) was slightly lower in the Svalbard population than in other populations, suggesting a low effective population size, possibly due to isolation following colonisation. An unrooted network and a phylogenetic tree showed that the Scandinavian population has diverged from the other populations by at least ten mutational steps, probably due to independent colonisation of Europe and subsequent long-term isolation, and rules out Scandinavia as a source for colonisation of Svalbard. Alignment with partial control region sequences from other studies showed that the haplotype that was central in our network and found on Svalbard and in Taimyr, most likely corresponds to a haplotype found in Siberia, Alaska and the Canadian Arctic, but not in Greenland, Scandinavia and Iceland. This suggests an eastern origin of rock ptarmigan in Svalbard, although this question cannot be settled conclusively.
3683536|We investigated the relationship between site productivity and diversity of vascular plants, bryophytes, lichens, and polypore fungi in forests based on species richness data in 0.25 ha forest plots (grain size), selected from six 150-200 ha study areas (focus), and spanning over a latitudinal distance of 1350 km (extent) in Norway. We 1) searched for prevailing productivity-diversity relationships (PDRs), 2) compared PDRs among taxonomic groups and species found in different micro-habitats, and 3) investigated the effect of increasing plot (grain) size on PDRs. Using vegetation types as a surrogate for site productivity, we found a general pattern of increasing species richness with site productivity. On average total species richness doubled with a ten-fold increase in productivity. Lichens PDRs stood out as less pronounced and more variable than for other species groups investigated. PDRs of species associated with downed logs tended to level off at high-productive sites, a pattern interpreted as an effect of disturbance. Increasing the grain size > 10-fold did not change the proportional difference in species richness between sites with high and low productivity.
3682797| Seed dispersal of dry-fruited shrubs has received little attention in Mediterranean areas despite their frequency in the vegetation and the consideration given to the dispersal of fleshy-fruited shrubs in the area. Red deer faeces has recently been found to contain large numbers of seeds from one of the most common shrubs of this group, gum cistus Cistus ladanifer, although its importance in the reproduction of the species is unknown. This study examines the role of the red deer as an effective disperser of C. ladanifer. For this purpose, we quantify i) the C. ladanifer seed content in red deer dung over a year, ii) the seed shadow generated by the red deer with their faeces during the same period, and iii) the ability of the dung-borne seeds to germinate and establish as seedlings under field conditions within five years following excretion. The results reveal an extremely high seed content of the species in red deer dung (up to 80.5  41.9 germinable
3682892|Knowledge of the distribution of biodiversity remains poor. This situation might more readily be resolved if the species richness of certain groups of organisms indicated the richness of other, less well known groups. A spatially explicit exploration of the pattern in the predictive power that one taxon (a potential 'indicator group') might have for the diversity of another has been performed previously. In this paper we respond to three important points that have been raised. First, we describe an additional graphical technique for visualising spatial aspects of indicator relationships. Second, we examine some of the consequences of smoothing species richness data on observed indicator relationships. Third, we consider some of the factors that may contribute to strong indicator relationships.
3683678|The evolution of host specificity remains a central issue in the study of host-parasite relationships. Here we tackle three basic questions about host specificity using data on host use by fleas (Siphonaptera) from 21 geographical regions. First, are the host species exploited by a flea species no more than a random draw from the locally available host species, or do they form a taxonomically distinct subset? Using randomization tests, we showed that in the majority of cases, the taxonomic distinctness (measured as the average taxonomic distances among host species) of the hosts exploited by a flea is no different from that of random subsets of hosts taken from the regional pool. In the several cases where a difference was found, the taxonomic distinctness of the hosts used by a flea was almost always lower than that of the random subsets, suggesting that the parasites use hosts within a narrower taxonomic spectrum than what is available to them. Second, given the variation in host specificity among populations of the same flea species, is host specificity truly a species character? We found that host specificity measures are repeatable among different populations of the same flea species: host specificity varies significantly more among flea species than within flea species. This was true for both measures of host specificity used in the analyses: the number of host species exploited, and the index measuring the average taxonomic distinctness of the host species and its variance. Third, what causes geographical variation in host specificity among populations of the same flea species? In the vast majority of flea species, neither of our two measures of host specificity correlated with either the regional number of potential host species or their taxonomic distinctness, or the distance between the sampled region and the center of the flea's geographical range. However, in most flea species host specificity correlated with measures of the deviation in climatic conditions (precipitation and temperature) between the sampled region and the average conditions computed across the flea's entire range. Overall, these results suggest that host specificity in fleas is to a large extent phylogenetically constrained, while still strongly influenced by local environmental conditions.
3683705|Disturbance has profound effects on plant community composition. This paper deals with the influence of grazing on species richness and proportions of life-history attributes of grassland vegetation at six spatial scales (
3683470|Numerous studies have addressed variation in the local occurrence and abundance of species, but only recently have investigators begun considering the influence of spatial context on community structure. We examined the influence of geographic position within a species' range on its dominance (relative abundance) within the community. Our three primary questions were: 1) Does dominance within a community vary across a species' range? 2) Do dominance-location trends differ between widely and narrowly distributed species? and 3) Does dominance within a guild vary across a species range? We examined 40 passerine species (20 widely distributed, 20 narrowly distributed) and their communities using North American Breeding Bird Survey data, of which, a subset of 11 species belonging to a single foraging guild were used for addressing guild effects. Data were gathered from communities at the center (10 locations) and periphery (10 locations) of each species' range. Focal species were significantly less dominant at locations on the periphery of their ranges compared to central locations, and did not differ between widely and narrowly distributed species. In examining factors influencing these patterns, it was found that narrowly distributed species occur in communities of fewer individuals and fewer species compared to widely distributed species irrespective of locale. Within the foraging guild, dominance was also lower at the periphery than at the center of focal species' ranges. However, guild abundance was also lower at the periphery of ranges while guild richness did not vary with locale. Specifically, focal species abundance decreased at a greater rate than abundance of other members of the foraging guild. Contrary to overall community data, widely distributed species were more dominant members of their guild at the center of their ranges. No significant patterns were found between distribution and guild dominance at the periphery of ranges.
3683669|Habitat classification systems are poorly developed for tropical rainforests, where extremely high plant species richness causes numerous methodological difficulties. We used an indicator species approach to classify primary rainforest vegetation for purposes of comparative wildlife habitat studies. We documented species composition of pteridophytes (ferns and fern allies) in 635 plots (2  100 m) along 8 transects within a continuous rainforest landscape in northeastern Peruvian Amazonia. Considerable floristic variation was found when the data were analyzed using multivariate methods. The obtained forest classification was interpreted with the help of indicator value analysis and known soil preferences of the pteridophyte species. The final classification included four forest types: 1) inundated forests, 2) terrace forests, 3) intermediate tierra firme forests and 4) Pebas Formation forests. This rapid and relatively simple vegetation classification technique offers a practical, quantitative method for large-scale vegetation inventory in complex rainforest landscapes.
3683114| This paper presents the first long term (1960-89) data set on both muskox Ovibos moschatus density and weather parameters in north and northeast Greenland. The muskoxen appear to have experienced a 25 yr favourable period from the early 1960'ies to the mid 1980'ies, in which density increased and reached a maximum level. The population minimum around 1960 probably represents a long term minimum, following a long, generally unfavourable period between 1940-60. Variation in the local population trends from the southern parts of the muskox distribution in northeast Greenland to the northern parts, can be divided into three geographical areas (72-75N, 75-7730N, and north of 7930N), where density dependent and density independent factors affecting muskox populations are apparently different. Regional population stability does not increase towards the north. Two density independent (abiotic) factors seem to be of prime importance in determining the muskox population density and distribution in northeast Greenland: i) the amount of winter precipitation affects the distribution of muskoxen negatively, inducing local migrations, but does not have a direct negative effect on large scale variation in density; ii) ablation (i.e. melting of the upper snow layer) and concomitant ice crust formation in winter have a highly negative effect on muskox density in the southern range, but not in the northern range. The two abiotic factors, which show a considerable variation from north to south, are statistically independent and seem to be triggered by different weather conditions. The predictions that follow from a climatic model both with respect to the direct influence of abiotic factors on muskox density and the indirect influence of climatic fluctuation, are not fully supported by the data presented here. 
3683542|We investigate how perturbations that induce mortality transform original spatial patterns in plant communities into binary spatial patterns of survivors and perished individuals. By means of computer simulation, we analyse effects of average mortality, interspecific variation of mortality around the mean, spatial distribution of the species (clumping degree), and species richness. Gap spatial pattern is quantified by four spatial indices or landscape metrics (gap area, density, shape and coherence). In single-species communities, the emerging gap patterns are subject to critical phenomena: opportunities for colonizers to establish increase with mortality, but more rapidly at specific mortality thresholds. In multi-species communities, neither species richness nor interspecific variation of mortality influences gap spatial pattern when community assembly is random. Colonization opportunities would therefore not be affected by local species extinction in such a system, nor by the presence of species with divergent sensitivities to perturbation. In a community that is highly spatially aggregated, increases in interspecific mortality variation shift the pattern towards fewer gaps that are larger and more isodiametric, which suggests increased establishment chances for colonizers. Similar changes are induced in communities characterized by large interspecific mortality differences if clumping degree is increased. Loss of species richness only modifies gap spatial pattern to a substantial extent if mortality variation is high: in this case, depauperate communities exhibit a wider variety of colonization opportunities (more gaps which are on average smaller, but the largest gap is larger) than species-richer ones. These findings may explain the contrast between the negative diversity-invasibility relationship often found in small-scale experimental studies and the positive diversity-invasibility relationship found in observational studies at larger scale. They also demonstrate that the pre-disturbance spatial structure of a community significantly affects colonization opportunities for alien species, and is therefore a likely determinant of the trajectory of secondary succession following perturbation.
3683118|In alpine grasslands pale colour morphs of the snail Arianta arbustorum are more frequent than dark ones. As pale morphs absorb less solar radiation, they may forage for longer in sunlight and/or have a lower mortality risk from overheating. This hypothesis was tested. Equal numbers of pale and dark morphs were kept in enclosures in an alpine meadow. During the day, more pale morphs were seen than dark ones, the latter obviously remaining hidden. The difference was not significant in enclosures set up in a nearby forest, confirming that the inequality in behaviour depends on the amount of sunlight. Dark snails are on average warmer than pale ones. Experiments were also conducted in grassland on a mountain slope at altitudes between 1200 and 2000 m. Snails were marked with a paint which fades in light, and released. When recaptured several days later, the marks were more faded in pale morphs than in dark, suggesting that they had been more exposed to sunlight, supporting our hypothesis. The difference in fading was more pronounced at high than at low altitude.
30243180|We describe a model to predict the invasion success of alien plants on Mediterranean islands, according to their mode, frequency and time since introduction and simple species traits. The model was developed using canonical discriminant analysis to identify categories of low- and high-risk species. Whilst classifying ca 80% of the data set correctly, the type II error rate remained moderately high, which limits its value in practical terms. This level of accuracy is typical of similar models, and critical analysis of the weaknesses is necessary to develop long-term improvements in methodology. Sensitivity analysis indicates that, overall, mode of introduction had an important influence on invasiveness, with species introduced for public amenity being more likely to attain high-risk status than species introduced privately to gardens. Frequency and time since introduction had a relatively minor influence on the model outcome, but remained highly confounded with other variables. Although invasion success, as measured by the number of islands colonized, is expected to increase over time, it was not possible to estimate the rates of expansion from historical trends, which are complicated by changes in import fashions over the centuries. Many older introductions were crops, whereas there has been a recent tendency towards exotic ornamentals and weedy species. Despite a fundamental influence on the results, similar historical influences are seldom taken into account adequately during trait analyses. Unravelling such inter-correlations between predictors is therefore an important challenge for the future of screening protocols.
3682793|A general positive interspecific relationship between local abundance and geographic range size in animals has prompted speculation that a similar relationship might exist intraspecifically, such that a species is widespread at times when it is locally abundant, and more restricted in distribution when it is locally rare. Current evidence suggests that intraspecific relationships often are positive, but that there is considerable variation in the pattern exhibited by species. Here, we use data on British birds to test the hypotheses that species showing a high mean or wide spread of local densities or range sizes will be more likely to show strong intraspecific relationships between abundance and geographic range size. These data show only inconsistent support for an effect of the range of densities or of occupancies on intraspecific abundance-range size relationships. However, the strength of an intraspecific relationship does seem to be related to the mean occupancy of species, and whether or not a species exhibits temporal trends in density, with the strongest relationships found in species with simultaneous trends in both density and occupancy. We suggest that these results are explained by time lags in the loss or gain of species at occupied sites in response to reductions or increases in density.
3683647|It is becoming increasingly apparent that the ecological structure of local assemblages depends to some degree on the regional context within which they are embedded. Here, the structure of one such local assemblage, the avifauna of Eastern Wood, southern England, is modelled as a random draw from the pool of British deciduous woodland species. The random draw model accurately predicts most (>90%) of a suite of descriptive statistics calculated from the Eastern Wood avifauna, when the probability that a species is selected for inclusion in a random assemblage is weighted by its British geographic range size. Models for which a species selection is weighted by its British population size, or is unweighted, perform less well. This suggests that how widespread a species is in a region affects the likelihood that it will occur at any given local site, and hence that large-scale patterns in the distribution of species can strongly influence the composition and structure of local assemblages.
